Page  1
August 30, 1999
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
  Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Italian Grant for Essential Hospital Services Project
Grant No. TF021087
Dear Mr. Kurtovic:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Republic of 
Italy, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding six hundred and twenty thousand 
United States dollars (US$ 620,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Mirsad Kurtovic
Authorized Representative
Date: September 8, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purposes of the Grant is to support the development of a modern, 
cost-effective and fiscally sustainable hospital sub-sector in Republika Srpska.  The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
strengthening of essential hospital services at the regional level 
through provision of medical equipment and supplies;
(b)
physical rehabilitation and reconstruction of Trebinje hospital in 
Republika Srpska.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) cause Republika Srpska to carry out the Activities with 
Page  2
due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the 
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; 
(d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and 
results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA 
to visit the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina for purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, 
prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
For the purpose of ensuring that the Grant is implemented and that funds are 
transferred according to the terms and conditions of the Grant, the Recipient shall 
enter into a Subsidiary Grant Agreement (Subsidiary Grant Agreement) with Republika 
Srpska on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. 
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and works required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, 
and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to 
replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with 
appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly 
made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the Grant
   % of
Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(in U.S. Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
465,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(2)
Works
155,000
100%
TOTAL
620,000
For purposes of this paragraph: (i) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures 
in the currency of any country other than that of Bosnia and Herzegovina for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 
and (ii) the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures, provided, however, that if the currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 
also that of another country from the territory of which goods are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign 
expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
Page  3
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced or supplied from such 
territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations; or (v) after August 31, 2000 or such later date as IDA shall 
establish by written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that 
withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the 
corresponding application is received by IDA within four (4) months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be cancelled; and (b) if, in IDA's opinion an amount of the Grant 
allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient 
to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by written notice to the 
Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another 
item which, in IDA'a opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or such other person 
as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence 
in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works, all under such terms 
and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US Dollars, special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to 
this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA 
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  4
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity, to make withdrawals under any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended.
6.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the 
Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract, and goods which the 
Association agrees upon can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. In addition, the list of 
suppliers to be invited shall include, inter alia, the suppliers who express interest 
in response to the general procurement Notice referred to in paragraph 2.7 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard 
documentation agreed with the Association.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  5
Works estimated to cost $155,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I, Part B.1 of this Schedule, and (ii) the first three contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Activities and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$150,000, to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the respective 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the respective 
Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
Page  6
the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from 
the Grant Account under the eligible items, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the respective Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the 
respective Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to 
IDA such outstanding amount.
