Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17485
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2459-MAG)
March 17, 1998
Private Sector and Finance Technical Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their offiecial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World B3ank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00                  FMG 5,310.09 (December 31, 1997)
SDR I                    US$ 1.35515 (December 31, 1997)
AT YEAR END                   US$_=
1985                  FMG  632.92
1986                  FMG  742.55
1987                  FMG 1,235.08
1988                  FMG 1,513.24
1989                  FMG 1,530.12
1990                  FMG 1,472.25
1991                  FMG 1,835.14
1992                  FMG 1,918.73
1993                  FMG 1,950.29
1994                  FMG 4,319.93
1995                  FMG 3,693.38
1996                  FMG 4,319.93
1997                  FMG 5,310.09
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
METRIC                 US EQUIVALENT
I METER (M)                 3.28 FEET (FT)
I HECTARE (HA)              2.47 ACRES (A)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMMEC             Mutual Savings and Loan Development Association
Association de Developpement du Mouvement Mutualiste
d'Epargne et de Credit
BTM                National Rural Development Bank
Bankin 'Ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra
CCFR               Rural Finance Coordinating Committee
Comite de Coordination des Finances Rurales
CSBF               Banking Supervisory Commission
Commission de Supervision Bancaire et Financiere
CTFR               Interministerial Working Group for Rural Finance
Cellule Technique de Finance Rurale
FMG                Malagasy Franc
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
RFTAP              Rural Finance Technical Assistance Project
SLA                Savings and Loan Association
Vice President      Callisto Madavo
Director            Michael Sarris
Manager             Thomas W. Allen
Staff Member        Herninia Mv[artinez



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..............................................5
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ............................................. i-v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................................I
Project Background .................................................1
Project Objectives .................................................1
Achievement of Project Objectives .................................................2
Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................5
Sustainability .................................................7
Bank Performance .................................................7
Borrower Performance .................................................8
Assessment olf Outcome .................................................8
Key Lessons ..................................................9
Future Operation ................................................                                      10
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES .............................................                                 11
APPENDIX  A: Borrower's Contribution - Summary in English .......................... 21
APPENDIX  B: Map of SLA  Networks Financed by the Project ........................... 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPL:EMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2459-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Finance
Technical Assistance Project in Madagascar, for which Credit 2459-MAG in the amount
of SDR 2.7 million (US$3.7 million equivalent) was approved on February 16, 1993, and
made effective on April 6, 1994.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997, as planned. Final disbursements
are expected to take place at end of March 1998, at which time any unused balance will
be canceled. IDA, Societe Internationale Desjardins (SDID), a Canadian NGO, and the
Government were the co-financiers of the project. No comments were received from
SDID.
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR consists of two reports incorporating the
views of participarnts in the project and is available upon request. A summary in English
is attached for information. The ICR was prepared by Chau Duong of the Africa Private
Sector and Finance Technical Group (AFTP1). It was reviewed by Herminia Martinez,
Principal Operations Officer (AFTP1), William Steel, Technical Specialist (AFTP1), and
Harald Burmeister, Sr. Projects Officer (AFTS2).
Preparation of this ICR is based on the final supervision/completion mission
carried out in October 1997, and existing material in the project file.



IMPIEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
RURAL FIlNANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2459-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Rural Finance Technical Assistance Project (RFTAP) was prepared in 1987
in a climate of general disenchantment with ineffective traditional approaches to rural
finance in Madagascar. Yet, agriculture was the most important sector of the Malagasy
economy, employing over 80 percent of the labor force, accounting for a third of GDP,
and generating 60 to 65 percent of export earnings. It needed considerable investments
for growth. Until then, virtually all attempts to develop rural finance in the country had
been credit-driven, with little attention to savings. Results of the Bank's First and Second
Agricultural Credit projects, implemented in the 1980s by BTM, the state-owned
National Rural Development Bank, were disappointing. They had ill-adapted features,
minimal coverage, high costs, poor recovery rates, and the usual neglect of savings
mobilization.
Project Objectives
2.    The RFTAP (US$3.7 million equivalent), approved by IDA's Board on February
16, 1993, drew on the positive experience of existing pilot projects with group
movements in rural Madagascar to test an alternative approach. It aimed at promoting a
durable savings and loan movement at the grass-roots level which would provide sound
financial services to its members, and over time link up with formal institutions. It was
also intended to address the legal and regulatory issues involved in the development of
the savings and loan movement. The objectives remained unchanged throughout the
implementation period. The pilot project consisted of the following components: (a)
support for the creation and development of savings and loan associations (SLAs),
assisted by specialized non-governmental organizations (NGOs); (b) support to the
Mutual Savings and Loan Development Association (ADMMEC) for project
management, monitoring and evaluation; and (c) provision of basic training and
entrepreneurship training for microenterprises in rural areas.



-ii-
Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    The project's objectives were clear, generally well designed, and reflected
realities in the country and the sector. They were appropriate given the pervasive and
persistent market failure. The operation was in accord with Government's rural
development strategy of liberalizing prices and markets and improving production.
Compared to the Bank's two previous agricultural credit operations, the project concept
was innovative and had the following characteristics: private ownership, government
non-intervention, bottom-up initiatives, deposit facilities, simple procedures, group-based
lending for small loans, liberalized lending rates, financial discipline, competition,
adaptation to regional differences, and access to technical support.
Achievement of Project Objectives
4.    The project's achievements exceeded appraisal estimates, even under adverse
conditions such as political turmoil and high inflation. A law was promulgated that
recognized SLAs as financial institutions and regulated their organization and activities.
Over the four-year life of the project, three networks totaling 54 SLAs were created, each
SLA grouping on average 150-200 members, with savings averaging US$15-20 per
person. Training, on the other hand, could have been better coordinated and made
available to wider participation by rural micro-entrepreneurs. By the same token, the
project objective of SLAs breaking even after the second year of operations was
unrealistic. At project closing, it had been achieved by one network that had started
operating since 1993 with financing under Project Preparation Facility 665-MAG and
most likely by a second one, the slow growth of which kept transaction costs down.
5.    On the institutional side, the program faces three main problems. First, SLAs
failed to adopt uniform reporting standards, which made performance evaluation
unfeasible in one network. Deficiency in this area became evident at mid-term review
when an assessment of the project sustainability was performed. Second, training for
SLA salaried staff and elected leaders on the mutualist principle, accounting and auditing
procedures, and basic financial management has not reached the required level. Third
and more importantly, the project had started with one network favoring credit. It now
progresses with all three redirecting their focus towards the more popular practice of
using donors' lines of credit as sources of funds. It must be recognized, though, that in
two of the three networks, the use of external funds has been limited and carefully
supervised.
6.    The project was initially defined as a "rural" finance technical assistance project.
However, the rural/urban divide is blurred upon completion, since the need for financial
services provided by SLAs is significant in both areas. In addition, by expanding in both
rural and urban areas, SLAs will be able to diversify their portfolios, reduce their risks,
and increase their potential for profitability. To reflect this broadened focus, oversight of
the follow-up project will be tumed to the Ministry of Economy and Finance.



Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.    Some events had major influence on the course of the RFTAP but were partly
beyond Government's control: project effectiveness was delayed for close to a year
owing to the political transition; one renegotiated management contract delayed program
start-up; an NGO could not fulfill its commitment due to a reason unrelated to its
competence or the project; a Bank-supported social development project offered credit to
farmers at competitive subsidized rates; donors were willing to provide credit funds for
quick results; and a rural finance specialist was dismissed but never replaced. On the
other hand, in the first two years of RFTAP implementation, Government could have
exercised more macro discipline to reduce high inflation and budget deficit and
encourage savings. ADMMEC, the project implementing unit, was also responsible for a
number of difficulties: its staff had limited skills in rural finance/banking and marketing;
yet, it did not seek to maintain the technical assistance envisaged under the project;
training programs were executed with much delay; management and financial control
capacity were overall weak.
8.    Cost Changes. Total project cost stayed within limit despite local inflation rates
that exceeded the annual 10 percent predicted. As compared with appraisal estimates,
there was an overrun in the SLA promotion component and the project management
component, while funds were underused for services to microenterprises. Both contracts
with NGOs and ADMMEC's operating costs were underestimated. The four-year
implementation period was respected even as the project reached its outreach targets long
before credit closing. The outreach targets were not ambitious, but this is understandable
in a pilot project.
Project Sustainability
9.    On the legal and regulatory issue, project sustainability is good.  On the
institutional side, however, because the SLA networks had just completed their start-up
phase, they would continue to require capacity building at all levels in order to achieve
efficiency. Last but not least, SLAs need a stable political situation, a macro-economic
and sector policy environment conducive to effective financial intermediation, and
increasing members' confidence in their SLAs to develop. Project sustainability will
depend on those iactors.
Bank Performance
10.   Overall, the Bank performed satisfactorily throughout the project cycle. The
project was consistent with the Bank's rural services strategy and in line with its financial
sector strategy for Madagascar. Project's risks were correctly assessed. On the other
hand, throughout the four-year implementation period, task management was changed
three times, causing discontinuity in project supervision and a delay in conducting the
mid-term review. The mid-term review was instrumental in focusing ADMMEC and the
networks on improving the financial performance of SLAs. Skills in agricultural and



-iv-
financial sector development of Bank staff involved in the project were satisfactory.
However, staff should have used more care in ensuring that ADMMEC put in place a
sound accounting system at project start. Also, they should have ensured that a second
rural finance advisor be recruited for the project after the first one was dismissed.
Borrower Performance
11.   The performance of the Government and particularly of the Ministry of
Agriculture was satisfactory. The Government was committed, subscribed to all the
principles of the new approach in its Rural Finance Development Letter, and gave its
support from preparation throughout implementation of the project without interference.
ADMMEC's performance was less satisfactory, though overall it did fulfill its mandate.
Deficiencies were found in financial management, training, and in the carrying out of its
monitoring and evaluation function. ADMMEC's difficulties came also from conflict
between its responsibilities as a project implementing agency and its professional
association functions.
Assessment of Outcome
12.   Considering the uncertainties and risks normally conceived in a pilot project of
this nature, and the unexpected difficult political and economic circumstances under
which the project was implemented, the outcome is particularly positive despite the
shortcomings indicated. Most of the agenda is completed. The project has succeeded in
setting an entirely new pattern for microfinance in Madagascar, including the legal and
regulatory framework. It has forced other systems to become more professional. The
planned activities have been largely carried out (establishment of 54 SLAs, training for
microenterprises, studies). In sum, the project has tested and proved that member-based
SLAs, using commercial principles, are able to cater to the demand for financial services
in rural communities and increase the income and prospects of the poor. For the above
reason, the project's outcome is rated satisfactory.
Key Lessons
13.  Implementing the pilot RFTAP was akin to undertaking a voyage of discovery in
various domains, from methodology to politics. While the lessons learned from this
project share similarities with those from many other microfinance projects, some
important ones relate to institutional problems specific to the Malagasy context:
(a)   Significant human and material resources are required to build solid and
healthy institutions. The networks should pay more attention to training;
(b)   Until the savings culture is completely internalized, deposit mobilization
rather than external lines of credit should be persistently and consistently
maintained as basis for sustainable capability to lend;



(c)   To balance cost and progress toward self-sustainability, it is evident that
the SLA networks must also move into urban areas where population
density is higher and savings are more important;
(d)   Where the need is identified and warranted, financing should be provided
to assist SLA networks set up appropriate MIS and accounting systems;
(e)   Funds should be earmarked for mandatory external operational and
financial audit of the SLA networks once they reach a given level of
assets. For effective monitoring and evaluation, minimum uniform
reporting standards on outreach and financial information should be
introduced from the start;
(f)   Setting real positive interest rates on loans provides SLAs with sufficient
margins for cost recovery and put them on the path to self-sustainability;
and
(g)   Government should establish a mechanism to coordinate activities of
competing rural finance schemes.
Future Operation
14.   The above and other findings are being taken into account in the design of the
second phase of the project which is being prepared. The second phase project will likely
continue to strengthen and expand existing SLA networks and encourage new eligible
schemes offering innovative approaches, while focusing on trend toward sustainability. It
might also include development of linkages between SLAs and the banking sector,
improvement to the legal and regulatory framework, supervision of SLAs by the banking
supervisory conmnission (CSBF), and training of microfinance professionals and trainers.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2459-MAG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Background
I.    When the Rural Finance Technical Assistance Project (RFTAP) was appraised in
1992, the agricultural sector which constituted an important economic activity of
Madagascar, had already undergone major policy changes and substantial reform. Prices
for most agricultural products had been liberalized, with a strong production response.
Considerable investment was needed to support this supply response and efficient
financial services should have been available to help deliver it. By that time, however, it
was evident that past attempts to develop rural financial operations, mostly through credit
schemes with the state agricultural development bank, BTM, had fallen short of
expectations.
2.    Results of the Bank's two rural finance operations were disappointing. They had
ill-adapted products, minimal coverage, high costs, poor recovery rates, absence of
competition, and indifference to savings mobilization. IDA's First Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. 1064-MAG), the main objective of which was to support Government's
policy to exten(d credit to smallholders, failed for lack of demand and most of the Credit
was reallocated to finance the importation of inputs and equipment for resale. The
Second Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1804-MAG) moved away from the smallholder
credit and focused on lending to medium-sized private enterprises. The medium-term
credit component had only a small number of large enterprises, some of which could have
obtained the credit from other sources.
Project Objectives
3.    Statement of Project Objectives. The objectives of the project were to stimulate
the creation of a savings and loan movement at the grass-roots level which would provide
financial services on a sustainable basis to its members and over time develop banking
relations with the formal financial system, and to address the legal and regulatory issues
involved in the development of such movement. The stated objectives remained
unchanged throughout the project life. Specifically, the project aimed to help: (a)
develop farmers' savings and loan associations; (b) support training and technical
assistance to such associations without subsidizing credit or providing credit lines; (c)



-2-
promote development of market-based, competitive institutions; (d) work through
schemes in high priority areas; and (e) address the legal and regulatory issues. This was
to be achieved through:
(a)   support for the establishment of savings and loan associations (SLAs),
with technical assistance from specialized non-governmental organizations
(NGOs);
(b)   support to Association de Developpement du Mouvement Mutualiste
d'Epargne et de Cr6dit (ADMMEC), a non-government association and
the project's implementing agency, for project management, monitoring
and evaluation; and
(c)   provision of basic training and entrepreneurship training for
microenterprises in rural areas.
4.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The project correctly reflected the needs and
constraints of the Malagasy rural financial sector: inadequate supply of financial services
to the low-income rural population, including savings facilities, quasi-monopoly of the
state agricultural bank in the sector, its high transaction cost, and its distressed financial
condition. It thus proposed a novel approach to provide efficient rural finance services
and tap into a huge potential demand for these services. The operation was also in accord
with Government's rural development strategy of liberalizing prices and markets and
improving production. It incorporated innovative elements drawn from current best
practices in rural financial intermediation:  private ownership, government non-
intervention, bottom-up initiatives, deposit facilities, simple procedures, group-based
lending for small loans, liberalized lending rates, financial discipline, competition,
adaptation to regional differences, and access to technical support.
5.    The project scope was manageable, but supervision of young SLAs was labor-
intensive and costly. In addition, ADMMEC did not inspire confidence among operators
or the local networks to take a leadership role, partly because its board of directors and
staff had limited experience in rural finance issues, and partly because ADMMEC was
viewed more as a World Bank project unit. The project had planned for technical
assistance to help establish a Malagasy SLA system. Unfortunately, there was strong
resistance to maintain this technical support.  Eventually, it was removed, thus
handicapping ADMMEC in the early stage of the project and of the mutualist movement.
Until the mid-term review in October 1996, ADMMEC's monitoring and evaluation staff
had focused solely on outreach. Only afterward, did they start to develop the skills to
assess the financial performance of the SLA networks.
Achievement of Project Objectives
The project's major objectives were substantially achieved.



-3-
6.    Development of SL4s. Regarding the legal and regulatory framework, Law no.
96-020 regulating the mutualist financial institutions and complementing the banking law
no. 95-030, was promulgated on September 4, 1996. However, directives for its
implementation that had been prepared in consultation with ADMMEC and the SLAs
have not been approved and issued yet. CSBF will assume oversight of SLAs which are
required to group into unions and federations. The grouping will facilitate CSBF's
supervisory functions. SLAs still need to choose their legal status and prepare long-term
plans for their development.
7.    As for the creation of SLAs, most targets had been reached and had even
exceeded appraisal estimates. Over the four-year life of the project, 54 SLAs were
created, each grouping 150-200 members, with savings averaging US$15-20 per person
(against US$10 estimated). Expansion of one existing pilot project could not be achieved
owing to the operator's early withdrawal for a reason not related to its competence or the
project. Preliminary feasibility studies were completed and could be available for later
use. Some other serious hurdles along implementation did not prevent RFTAP from
moving ahead: the 1991-93 political turmoil, the major devaluation of the FMG (about
50 percent) in 1994, and high inflation in the first two years of project implementation
(averaging 43 percent over the period). Even after adjustment for inflation, the savings
mobilized and credit distributed under the project remained positive in real terms.
Growth results could have been much more spectacular if inflation had been controlled,
as demonstrated in the first six months of 1997 when savings collected under the project
doubled. SLAs will continue to require support, including technical assistance, and
training, but viability prospects are promising.
8.    On the institutional side, achievements are encouraging. Nevertheless, the
program faces three main problems. First, SLAs failed to adopt uniform reporting
standards, which made performance evaluation unfeasible in one network. Deficiency in
this area becamLe evident at mid-term review when an assessment of the project
sustainability was performed. Data collection had not been mastered and yielded
numerous inconsistencies. To correct this problem, forms utilized should be kept as
simple as possible and training should be extensive to the concerned people in SLAs on
how to fill them. Second, training for SLA salaried staff and elected leaders on the
mutualist principles, accounting and auditing procedures, and simple financial
management had not been given due attention by ADMMEC and the NGOs providing
technical assistance to the networks. Third, the pressure from programs that focused on
credit has already resulted in some reorientation of the SLAs. The project started out
with one network focusing on credit. All now are considering the more popular practice
of using donors' lines of credit as sources of funds although two of the three networks
have used credit lines sparingly and intend to continue to do so. Past experience in the
country and elsewhere demonstrates that there is the ever present danger that immoderate
use of external credit would decrease the incentive to save and depress savings.
9.    Results of the training component were mixed. On one hand, 27 national field
staff in SLAs hadl been trained under the project against 20 estimated at appraisal. A shift



-4-
in arrangement in 1994 gave the SLA operators the responsibility for providing training
to staff and members in their respective networks. It was perceived that such arrange-
ment would result in more effective training. Training provided by the three SLA
networks was adapted to their respective structures and their recruitment philosophy. On
the other hand, the planned position of an expatriate trainer was canceled as a result of the
above decision and deprived ADMMEC of much needed mentoring. ADMMEC was
given the responsibility of organizing the basic training program for SLA members and
the entrepreneurial training program for off-farm microentrepreneurs in rural areas. Its
performance on that account was lacking. Poor coordination and lack of rural finance
skills led to schedule slippage and much less participation by the targeted beneficiaries
than estimated at appraisal.
10.   TechnicalAssistance under the project had also given mixed results. Throughout
project implementation, there was competition among some of the NGOs designated to
set up or expand the SLA networks. In the beginning, the Ministry of Agriculture had
determined that in the initial stage and in order to nurture SLAs' growth, one network
would operate in one zone. In practice, the authorities had difficulty applying this
understanding as NGOs competed for the "best" zones. On the other hand, one SLA
network could benefit from technical assistance in financial management only near the
end of the project. The above network lacked an appropriate accounting system that was
a handicap for financial management purposes. Other,technical assistance planned for the
project included a training specialist (para. 9) and a rural finance advisor (paras. 17 and
22). The first position was canceled in 1994 while the second was only briefly filled and
never replaced, thus depriving the project all through its implementation, of the requisite
skills in rural finance.
11.   Besides the required annual audits and the preliminary area surveys included in
SLA technical assistance contracts, four studies were completed under the project, three
of which were undertaken by national consulting firms. The two studies on beneficiary
evaluation analyzed how SLA members rated the program and their organizations and
were helpful to the networks in finetuning their methodologies. The study of project
impact on poverty alleviation reviewed the consequences SLA members' access to SLA
financial services has on their living standards and will be useful in better targeting
beneficiaries for future projects. Overall, the three studies shed light on the positive
aspects of the program. A fourth study did a comparative analysis of the approaches used
by the different NGO operators and underlined the strengths and weaknesses of each.
12.   Support to ADMMEC. The project was managed by ADMMEC that had the
statute of a national association responsible for promoting the mutualist movement. Its
membership initially consisted of 11 NGOs and BTM. ADMMEC had not inspired
confidence amnong the NGOs or the SLA networks to take a leadership role, partly
because its board of directors and staff had limited experience in rural finance issues, and
partly because it was considered as a Bank's instrument. However, overall, it had
fulfilled its mandate for project implementation and there was growing recognition that
ADMMEC was serving as a forum for discussion of issues. The general consensus after



-5-
the mid-term review was that ADMMEC should evolve into a professional association to
represent the interests of the SLAs and become the interface of the Government and the
donors in promoting the mutualistic movement. To position for this move, ADMMEC
had expanded the membership of its Board of Directors. It would also have to change its
legal status. ILO had expressed its intention to support ADMMEC after RFTAP closing
in December 1997.
13.   Services to Microenterprises. ADMMEC could have been more proactive in
coordinating and organizing the training program for microentrepreneurs. Targets were
not met and training was provided by only two NGOs out of the four originally planned.
A position of training specialist, which was programmed at appraisal, was canceled in
1994 (para. 10). The project would have benefited from such expertise.
14.   The project was initially defined as a "rural" finance technical assistance project.
However, the rural/urban divide is blurred upon completion, since the need for financial
services provided by SLAs is as significant in both areas. In addition, by expanding in
both rural and urban areas, SLAs will be able to diversify their portfolios, reduce their
risks, and increase their potential for profitability. To reflect this broadened focus,
oversight of the follow-up project will be passed from the Ministry of Agriculture to the
Ministry of Econiomy and Finance.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   Some events had major influence on the course of the project, but were largely
independent of Government's control:
(a)   Project effectiveness was delayed for close to a year after credit signing
owing to a political crisis and the ensuing transition period when the
decision-making process made it difficult for conditionalities to be met.
(b)   Because of its high cost, a contract with an NGO to start a SLA network in
a new area had to be renegotiated, which delayed program start-up from
April 1994 to February 1995. A contract with another NGO to expand its
existing SLA network could not be pursued as the NGO, for reasons non-
related to the RFTAP, stopped its operations in Madagascar.
(c)   The Bank-financed Social Fund program, as it expanded into credit,
caused difficulties to  SLA  development.   First, notwithstanding
instructions, the Social Fund, which did not need to recover costs of
operations, had tended to set interest rates that were well below those of
SILAs. Second, Social Fund representatives had urged individuals to set
up SLAs in competition with those being financed under the project and
by other donors. The Social Fund staff had no particular expertise in
setting up financial intermediaries. Discussions within the Bank and with
the Social Fund Director led to satisfactory arrangements as follows: (i)



-6-
the Social Fund would use SLAs as financial intermediaries in areas where
these exist; (ii) the Social Fund would consider activities in very poor
regions which are less likely to have viable financial intermediaries; (iii)
conflict problems would be solved on a case-by-case basis; (iv) in areas
where SLAs do not exist, the Social Fund would apply the lending rate of
the closest commercial bank; and (v) in irrigated zones, required
beneficiaries' personal contribution would be increased by 20 percent
starting January 1998 in line with Government irrigation sector policy. It
would be difficult for the nascent SLAs to develop in face of too strong a
competition.
(d)   Donors who favor quick results have provided credit funds. Although the
two NGOs that managed the networks had carefully designed the
operations to ensure that the savings aspects of the cooperatives are
retained, the surge in external credit put pressure on SLA networks to look
for external sources of financing to expand credit and thus compete for
membership with networks which are predominantly channeling external
lines of credit.
16.   Other events could have been controlled by Government. Such was the high
inflation that persisted in the first two years of project implementation. Inflation hurt the
project and stunted its growth because it discouraged savings and reduced the real value
of deposit accounts.
17.   Other difficulties were related to the project implementing agency. An expatriate
rural finance specialist who served as ADMMEC's advisor was dismissed early in
January 1995. He was never replaced, thus leaving a void in rural finance skills that were
much needed given ADMMEC's limited knowledge in this area and the pioneering
quality  of its  mission.    Its  weak  management,  financial  control,  and
monitoring/evaluation capacity are another impediment. Staff were not appropriately
supervised in their duties; financial statements for 1994, 1995 and 1996 were not
produced and were prepared instead by auditors; the internal control system was
inadequate, and the monitoring and evaluation skills of ADMMEC staff started to
develop only late into project implementation.
18.   Cost Changes. Project costs stayed within the appraisal total despite local
inflation rates that exceeded the predicted 10 percent per year. As compared with
appraisal estimates, there was an overrun in the SLA promotion component and the
project management component, while funds were underused for services to
microenterprises. Cost for technical assistance surpassed planned budget, even when
fewer (3 out of 4) contracts were implemented and were for shorter duration.
Management contracts with NGOs were indeed more costly than envisaged. At project
end, the start-up costs for each SLA amounted to about US$46,000.  Similarly,
ADMMEC's operating costs were underestimated. As they constituted nearly the entire
local portion of the financing plan, these operating costs were mitigated by the important



-7-
FMG devaluation (about 50 percent) in 1994. The four-year implementation period was
respected even as the project reached its outreach targets long before credit closing. The
outreach targets were not ambitious and this is understandable in a pilot project.
Sustainability
19.   Achievements under the pilot project are on target. On the legal and regulatory
issue, project sustainability is good. Physical investments (offices, safes, manuals) for
the start-up of 54 SLAs created under the project will be maintained.  On the
methodologies adopted, group lending, familiarity between the borrowers and the elected
leaders in SLAs, and social sanction will generally ensure repayment while positive real
interest rates and adequate spreads will strengthen financial sustainability.
20.   Sustainability prospects are encouraging, but much remains to be worked out.
There are difficulties in ensuring adequate savings and equity contribution, especially in
rural areas where population density is low. This explains SLAs' tendency to converge
toward semi-urban and urban areas where savings are highly concentrated. Another
threat to sustainability is the trend to depend on donors' funds for credit, which might
also be tied to a wrong assumption (from past experience) among beneficiaries that
Government or donors' funds are grants that will continue to be provided and do not have
to be repaid. Although the current repayment record is good, it is not certain that this
would be sustained in the future. Also, it would be difficult for training and institution
building, key elements for building sustainability, to be satisfactorily carried out in a
short time. Ownership and commitment by SLA members remain fragile because the
networks are new and have not achieved significant coverage. Lastly, SLAs need a stable
political situation, a macro-economic and sector policy environment conducive to
effective and sound financial intermediation, and increasing members' confidence in their
SLAs to develop. Project sustainability will depend on these factors. The overall
assessment is that financial services can be maintained and developed although support
for capacity building would need to be provided for some time.
Bank Perforimance
21.   Overall, the Bank has performed satisfactorily throughout the project cycle.
During identification, through a series of workshops organized with BTM, it had taken
the lead in defining issues, analyzing options, and introduced the concept of SLA in a
context where nothing existed. During preparation, the Bank's report "Rural Finance
Review" served as basis for discussions with Government. The project was consistent
with the Bank's rural services strategy to reduce farmers' dependence and insecurity, and
improve agricultural productivity. The operation was also in line with the Bank's overall
financial sector strategy for Madagascar, which aimed at increasing the system's financial
depth and promoting monetization in rural areas. The project's risks, mainly donor
funding of rural credit involving subsidization and managerial inexperience in SLAs,
were correctly assessed but cost for technical assistance and project management was



-8-
underestimated. Performance indicators were found to be rather modest while clearer
criteria for evaluating the networks' performance should have been established.
22.   The project was regularly supervised in conformity with Bank norms except for a
slack in the first half of 1996 when task management changed for a third time. Seven
supervision missions reviewed progress under the project between April 1994 and
December 1997, on average one every six months. Supervision of the RFTAP was
particularly labor-intensive. Overall, implementation progress was well reported and
problems and opportunities addressed in a timely manner. However, Bank staff should
have given more care to ensuring that a sound accounting system was in place at project
start. They could have also helped maintain the presence of a rural finance advisor to
help build up ADMMEC's competency and stature. This was the weakest point in
RFTAP supervision. Three staff changes over the life of the project also affected project
progress.  The mid-term  review suffered a six-month delay, but did lead to the
institutional strengthening of SLA networks and the reinforcement of ADMMEC's
monitoring and evaluation responsibilities. There was a satisfactory skills mix in
agricultural sector development and financial sector development by Bank staff involved
in the project. Coordination of Bank projects in different sectors on the terms for
providing micro-credit could have been improved (para. 15(d)) and would have ensured
consistency in Bank's program with the country.
Borrower Performance
23.   Overall, the performance of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture that
oversees the RFTAP, was satisfactory. Crucial to project design and success was its
commitment to reform the rural finance sector and introduce a culture of savings. The
Government was committed and did not interfere. During preparation, it organized
workshops and presented working papers that permitted the Bank to have a satisfactory
dialogue on all aspects of the project. It subscribed to all the principles of the new
approach in its Rural Finance Development Letter. The law for SLAs was passed and the
statutes for ADMMEC and SLAs prepared. Throughout supervision, ADMMEC staff
and members of the rural finance coordinating committee (CCFR) that consisted of
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture were regularly involved in
Bank missions to jointly evaluate SLAs' progress and forrnulate recommendations.
24.   As a project implementing agency, ADMMEC had some shortcomings. General
and financial management was weak, whereas staff did not have much experience in rural
finance issues (para. 17). For the latter reason, the SLA networks and especially the
NGOs providing technical assistance had difficulty recognizing it as leader of the
mutualist movement.
Assessment of Outcome
25.   For a pilot project implemented under adverse political and economic conditions,
the above shortcomings are relatively slight considering its achievements. Most of the



-9-
agenda is completed and in some instances the objectives have exceeded estimates. The
project has played a critical role in developing an understanding of savings and loan
systems and put in place the beginnings of such systems, including the legal and
regulatory framework, which has not been attempted by other donors. Furthermore, the
project has forced other systems to become more professional. The planned activities
have been largely carried out (establishment of SLAs, training for microentrepreneurs,
studies). The project has tested and proved that member-based SLAs, using commercial
principles, are able to cater to the demand for financial services particularly in rural
communities, even in face of adverse macroeconomic conditions and stiff competition.
Some preliminary information of studies undertaken to assess the response of
beneficiaries and to measure project impact indicated that the project had resulted in
increased investment in equipment, improved agriculture production for farmers
(especially in the network that received external lines of credit), increased savings, better
education for children, better health owing to more access to services, enhanced food
security, improved housing, reduced use of moneylenders, better household budget
management, and improved living standards. These positive results will allow SLA
clients to reduce their own poverty. The operation is a pilot technical assistance and
capacity building project; quantified results are thus small compared to cost. Future
benefits would require patience and continued adaptation.
Key Lessons
26.   Implementing the pilot RFTAP was akin to undertaking a voyage of discovery in
various domains, from methodology to politics. While the RFTAP shares common
lessons with other similar projects in the sector, it nevertheless provides valuable insight
into difficulties specific to the Malagasy context and would help improve the quality of
future microfinance projects in the country:
(a)   Allowance must be made for the indispensable learning process that
facilitates the development of strong and sustainable SLAs. More
consistent attention should be paid to training and institution building;
(b)   UJntil the savings culture is completely internalized, deposit mobilization
should be persistently and consistently maintained as basis for future
sustainability; external lines of credit should be used moderately, and only
as a complement to savings. In the future, donors should pay more
attention to sustainability;
(c)   To balance cost and progress toward self-sustainability, it is evident that
the SLA networks must also move into urban areas where population
clensity is higher and savings are more important;
(d)   Where the need is identified and warranted, financing should be provided
to assist SLA networks set up appropriate MIS and accounting systems;



-10-
(e)   Funds should be earmarked for mandatory external operational and
financial audit of the SLA networks once they reach a given level of
assets. For effective monitoring and evaluation, minimum uniform
reporting standards on outreach and financial information should be
introduced from the start;
(f)   Setting real positive interest rates on loans provides SLAs with sufficient
margins for cost recovery helps set them on the way to self-sustainability;
and
(g)   Government should establish a mechanism to coordinate activities of
competing rural finance schemes.
Future Operation
27.   The lessons of the project are being reviewed and incorporated in the second
phase which is under preparation. The central objective of the second phase project is
likely to strengthen and expand existing SLA networks as well as support any new
eligible schemes offering innovative approaches. The focus will be on continuing and
strengthening the trend toward sustainability.  New extension zones with adapted
approaches will be explored. Development of linkages between SLAs and the banking
sector will be included. The future project will also support improvement of the legal and
regulatory framework, CSBF's supervision of SLAs, assistance to SLAs to conform to
prudential requirements, and training of microfinance professionals and trainers.



PART II    STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ................................................  12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits ......................                         13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .....14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation           ....      .     14
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .15
Table 7A: Project Costs.........................................................................................16
Table 8B:: Projject Financing .16
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants         ..17
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .19
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ...............................      19
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Missions .................................'...'..  20
APPENDICES:
Appendix A: UJnofficial Summary of Borrower's Contribution .21
Appendix B: Map of SLA Networks Financed by the Project .24



-12-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives    Substantial   Partial   Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                                  V
Sector policies                       ,
Financial objectives       /
Institutional development             V/
Physical objectives                                            V
Poverty reduction                     V
Gender issues              V
Other social objectives                                         /
Environment objectives                                          /
Public sector management                                        I/
Private sector development                        V
Other                                                           /
B. Proiect sustainability           Likely         Unlikely      Uncertain
C. Bank perfornance                 Highlv
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                V
Preparation assistance        V
Appraisal                                     V
Supervision                                   V
D. Borrower performance             Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                   V
Implementation                                ,
Covenant compliance                           V
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly                                    HiWhlv
Satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactorv  Unsatisfactory
Iv/



-13-
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                     Purpose                    Year of      Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
DFC/SSI Project         Provide, through the National Industrial Bank,  1980  Completed
(Cr. 977-MAG)           credit for small, medium  and large-scale
projects in industry, agro-industry and
tourism; and contribute to the institutional
development of BNI through technical
assistance.
First Agricultural Credit   Provide,  through  the  National  Rural  1981    Completed
Project                 Development Bank  (BTM),  credit  for
(Cr. 1064-MAG)          agricultural inputs  and  equipment, and
training to smallholders.
Second Agricultural Credit  Provide  foreign  exchange  through  the  1987    Completed
Project                 National Rural Development Bank (BTM) to
(Cr. 1804-MAG)          (i)  finance  sub-projects  in  agricultural
production and primary processing and
marketing and (ii) contribute to the
institutional development of BTM through
technical assistance and the acquisition of
computer equipment.
Following Operations
Financial Sector and    Provide funding for the investments in      1990      Active
Private Enterprise      rehabilitation and new projects; and support a
Development Project     comprehensive package of policy reforms in
(Cr. 2104-MAG)          the financial and private enterprise sector.
Financial Institutions  Enhance  the  Central Bank's ability  to
Development Technical    formulate and conduct monetary policy based
Assistance Project      on  indirect  instruments;  improve  the    1993      Active
(Cr. 2497-MAG)          prudential supervision environment through
the strengthening of the CCBEF; formulate
and enforce audit and financial disclosure
standards based on international norms; and
support the privatization of state banks.
Social Fund II          Alleviate poverty and support community     1995     Active
(Cr. 2778-MAG)          development through partnership with NGOs
and beneficiary communities; and  rovide
supplemental  financing  to  the  Fonds
d'Intervention pour le Developpement (FID).



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification                                       December 1989
Preparation                                          September 28 - October
12, 1990
Appraisal                       November 1991        February 24 - March 16,
1992
Negotiations                    July 1992            December 14 - 18, 1992
Board approval                  August 1992          February 16, 1993
Signing                                              May 14, 1993
Effectiveness                   July 6, 1993         April 6, 1994
Project completion report       March 30, 1998       March 17, 1998
Credit closing                  December 31, 1997   December 31, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY94        FY95        FY96        FY97        FY98
Appraisal Estimate            0.5         1.3         2.3         3.4         3.7
Actual                        0.6         1.5         2.4         3.2
Actual as % of Estimate      120%        115%        104%        94%
Date of Final Disbursement                                                 03/31/1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR      Estimated               Actual
1. 10 associations established under the DID
scheme.                                          30                    24
2. 10 associations established under the WOCCU
scheme.                                          15                    20
3. 5 associations established under the FERT's
scheme.                                         8-12                    10
4. 4 associations established under the CIDR's           Not applicable: CIDR withdrew
scheme.                                          7       from Madagascar and could not
complete the terms of its contract.
5. 125-150 members per association; and at least    125-150          150-200
4,000 members for the SLA network.             4,000                 +10,000
6. Associations established in at least 3 new
regions for new promotion schemes, and in 2 new  3                      3
regions under existing schemes.                  2                      1
7. At least FMG 50 million savings collected in
project year 1, and FMG 100 million in project  FMG 205          +FMG 1.4 billion
year 2.                                        million
S. Minimum loan/savings ratio of 20% and
maximum of 40%.                               20-40%                  28%



-15-
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose            Status               Impact of Study
Beneficiary      To analyze how SLA       Completed   Provided feedback on the quality of SLA
Evaluation       members in the regions              financial services. Was instrumental in
of Marovoay,                        helping the networks adjust and improve
Ambatondrazaka, and                 the quality of their services in specific
Tamatave evaluated                  areas. Some preliminary information on
SLAs and the mutualist              the impact of the project on beneficiaries
movement.                           was also available: increased investment
in production, reduced use of
moneylenders, better household budget
.______________                       management, improved living standards.
Beneficiary      To analyze how SLA       Completed   Same as above.
Evaluation       members in the regions
of Vakinankaratra,
Haute-Mania,
Miarinarivo, and
Bongolava evaluated
SLAs and the mItualist
movement.
Study of project   To review impact on    . .. Completed   Provided information on the poverty
impact on poverty  access of members to..            level of SLA members. Would help
alleviation      SLA financial services.              future microfinance projects improve the
coverage of target populations and meet
their needs. Impact of the project on
beneficiaires was significant: better
liquidity management, improved
agriculture production for farmers
(especially in the network that received
extemal lines of credit), more investment
in equipment, increased savings, better
education for children, better health
owing to more access to services,
enhanced food security, improved
housing. The pace of improvement is,
however, slow.
Study on the     To do a comparative      Completed   Gave insights into differences in
different        analysis of the                      microfmance technologies used under the
approaches to    approaches used by the               project. Marginal impact.
promote SALs     different microfinance
development
organizations supporting
the SLA networks,
underlining the strengths
and weaknesses of each.
1994, 1995, 1996   To perform annual audit   Completed   1996 audit alerted ADMMEC
Project Audits   of the project accounts.             management and IDA to the inadequacy
of ADMMEC's accounting system.



-16-
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate        Latest estimate
(US$ million)           (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
costs      costs
Savings and Loan Promotion             0.7         2.2        2.9          3.94
Services to Microenterprises           0.0         0.1        0.1          0.05
Monitoring and Evaluation              0.2         0.4        0.6          0.03
Project Management                     0.3         0.2        0.5          0.48
Total Baseline Costs                   1.2         2.9        4.1          4.50
Physical Contingencies                 0.1         0.0        0.1          0.05
Price Contingencies                    0.2         0.2        0.4          0.27
Total Project Cost                     1.5         3.1   1    4.6          4.82
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)   Latest estimate
_________    _________   _________     (US$  m illion)
Source            Local costs    Foreign      Total
costs
IDA                              1.0         2.7          3.7          3.80
Government                       0.4          0.0         0.4          0.33
Implementing Organizations       0.1         0.4          0.5          0.69
Total                            1.5         3.1          4.6          4.82



-17-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agree-    Section     Cove-      Present    Original    Description of covenant          Comments
ment                nant type    status    fulfillment
date
Credit      3.04      Manage-  Complian   06/30/95   Borrower to carry out        The mid-term review,
ment     ce after              jointly with IDA and with    originally planned for June
aspects    delay                the participation of       30, 1995, was first delayed to
ADMMEC, a mid-term        spring 1996, then to October
review of the Project and  1996, awaiting the
soon thereafter, to       completion of the beneficiary
implement the             survey and some other
recommendations of such a   studies.
review.
Credit    4.01(b)(i)   Accounts  Complied  06/30/96    Borrower to have the       Fulfilled.
/Audits     with    06/30/97    records and accounts related
to expenditures made on the
basis of statements of
expenditure and those for
the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate
auditing principles
consistently applied, by
independent auditors
acceptable to the
Association.
Credit    4.01(b)(ii)   Accounts  Complied  06/30/96    The Borrower to furnish to   Fulfilled.
/Audits     with    06/30/97    the Association as soon as
available, but in any case
not later than six months
after the end of such year,
the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the
Association shall have
reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion
by said auditors as to
whether the statements of
expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures
and internal controls
involved in their
preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Credit    4.01(b)(iii)  Accounts   Partially           The Borrower to furnish to    A random SOE review of the
/Audits   complied              the Association such other    April 1997 mission found that
with                information concerning     some supporting documents
records and accounts and the  related to the project's
audit thereof indicated in  accounts were not readily
_________ __________  Sections 4.0 1(b)(i) and (ii)   available.
This covenant also appears in the Project Agreement between IDA and ADMMEC.



-18-
Agree-    Section     Cove-    Present    Original      Description of covenant          Comments
ment                nant type    status    fulfillment
date
as the Association shall
from time to time
reasonably request.
Project    Section    Manage-  Complied   06/30/94   Between June 30 and         Complied with.
2.02(a)     ment    Complied   06/30/95   September 30 of each year,   Complied with.
Aspects   Complied   06/30/96   ADMMEC to furnish to the   ADMMEC's work program
with                Association, for its review    and budget for FY1997 was
delay                and approval, in respect of   submitted with delay and was
the forthcoming year,     approved in early 1997.
detailed work programs and
budgets.
Project    Section    Accounts  Complied   06/30/96   ADMMEC to maintain         Audit report for FY 1995
4.01(a)    /Audit      with     60/30/97   records and accounts       raised a number of points to
partially             adequate to reflect, in   be clarified and remedied by
accordance with sound     ADMMEC. Resident Mission
accounting practices, its  sent a follow-up letter dated
operations and financial  July 3rd, 1996. Headquarters
conditions.               sent another dated August 13,
1996 on the same points.
ADMMEC replied on August
19, 1996.that it has taken
remedial measures.
Project    Section    Accounts  Complied   06/30/96   ADMMEC to have its         The 1995 audit was
4.01(b)(i)   /Audit     with      06/30/97   records, accounts and     completed but the report cited
financial statements      ADMMEC's inability to
(balance sheets, statements   produce financial statements.
of income and expenses and
related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate
auditing principles
consistently applied, by
independent auditors
acceptable to the
Association.



-19-
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OP 10.02                      During the 1996 audit of the project accounts, the auditor
Financial Management         indicated deficiencies in ADMMEC's accounting and
internal controls and in the reliability of its* financial
statements. At the Bank's request, ADMMEC subsequently
worked out a remedial action plan, hired a qualified
accountant and put the accounting system back in order.
Table 10: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle              Actual
-_____.._______..______        W eeks           US$
Preparation to appraisal        81.14          166,027
Appraisal to Board              54.35         130,297
.  Supervision                    80.70         204,665
Completion                       6.84          10,166
Total                          223.03         511,155



-20-
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of    Month/    No. of   Days    Specialized    Imple-   Develop      Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year    Persons    in    Staff Skills   ment-     ment
Field    Represented    ation
Appraisal e    02/92      4       80    SOO
Board                                    PSDS
L
C
Board -       02/93-+     2       62    RDS                                Delays due to
Effectiveness  04/94                     AE                                 conditionalities that
took time to be fulfilled
because of the political
crisis.
Supervision    07/94       1       10    RDS               S         S     Implementation was
delayed in the second
pilot area.
03/95       2       32    RDS                S         S      Implementation
AE                                rem4ined slow at
ADMMEC management
.________             _______________          _________   level.
10/95       2       37    AE                HS        HS
07/96        1       10    AE                S         S
11/96       5       59    ACO                S         S     Management and
POO                               staffing problems at
E                                 ADMMEC level.
SE
OA
04/97       2        10    POO               S         S      Weak project
OA                                management; poor
accounting of project
funds; weak promotion
capacity; nascent
monitoring-evaluating
capacity; absence of
accounting system in
one SAL network.
Completion    10/97     1          10    OA                s         S    I     _      _    _
* Data not available                      ACO: Agriculture Country Officer
Ratings:                                  AE:  Agricultural Economist
I - Insignificant problems.               C:   Consultant
2 - Moderate problems.                    E:    Economist
3 - Major problems; appropriate actions being    L:   Lawyer
taken.                                            OA:  Operations Analyst
4 - Major problems; not being addressed   POO: Principal Operations Officer
adequately.                                       PSDS: Private Sector Development Specialist
S - Satisfactory.                         RDS: Rural Development Specialist
U - Unsatisfactory                        SE:  Senior Economist
SOO: Senior Operations Officer



-21-
APPENDIX A
Republic of Madagascar                               Antananarivo, July 1997
Ministry of Agriculture
Appendix A: Unofficial Summary of Borrower's Contribution
Background
1     In view of continuing financing difficulties in rural communities, the Government
of Madagascar entered into a credit agreement with IDA in 1994 with the objective of
strengthening its rural financial system through the pilot application of the cooperative
principle. The main idea was to create self-sufficient savings and loan associations that
would extend credit to members with savings collected among the latter. Technical
assistance was provided by specialized international organizations (Developpement
International Desjardins-Canada, World council of Credit Union-Africa, Formation pour
l'Epanouissement et le Renouveau de la Terre-France and Centre International de
Developpement et de Recherche-France) while project coordination was managed by
ADMMEC, the association that was responsible for promoting the mutualist movement
in the country.
Project Implementation
2.   In order to foster a favorable environment for the development of the mutualist
movement, the Government facilitated the passing on September 4, 1996 of Law No.
93.026 regulating the creation and financial activities of savings and loan associations.
ADMMEC, which was also mandated to carry out the project, succeeded with the support
and supervision o:f the Ministries of Agriculture and Finance in bringing it to a
satisfactory completion. ADMMEC had started to establish itself as a professional
association of savings and loan networks to champion the latter's interests and promote
the mutualist movement. The technical assistance recruited to help develop the networks
of savings and loan associations met their objectives. As of April 30, 1997, 53
associations were created grouping 9,683 members, collecting FMG 900 million in
deposits and extending outstanding loans in the amount of FMG 309 million. Each
network tailors its approach to the needs and specificities of the region in which it is
implanted. Linkages, though still few and cautious, have been established with the
commercial banks through the careful use of lines of credit. Results are encouraging but
much remains to be done, especially concerning the training of elected leaders and
salaried staff of the associations. The networks have now passed to the second phase of
development with the creation of pre-unions and unions.
3.    Many difficulties stood in the way of project implementation. On the institutional
level, the political situation in 1992-93 delayed by a year the ratification of the IDA credit
agreement. Decree no. 93-026 which was a prerequisite for starting the project became



-22-
obsolete over time and needed to be replaced. The lack of professional skills of
ADMMEC's founding members made it difficult for ADMMEC to establish itself as the
leader of the mutualist movement. The Government started to have a clear strategy for
coordinating the different competing networks only in 1997, near the end of the project.
On project implementation, enforcing respect of the mutualist principle where social
programs tended to offer better rates created tension in some regions. There remained a
lingering resentment among ADMMEC's founding members who did not have the
required qualifications to manage the various savings and loan networks but expected to
assume such functions. Because they were not required to give results, the networks
tended to neglect training, especially when they did not want to grant large volumes of
credit at an early stage. The frequent change in task management at the World Bank was
another disruptive factor.
Assessment of IDA's and the Government of Madagascar's Performance
4.    IDA's performance was satisfactory. Support was provided by the Resident
Mission and regular missions from headquarters staff, which in some instances sped up
decisions. The skills of staff involved in the project were diverse (rural development,
management, finance).
5.   In general, the Government had been very supportive. It had helped the project
meet all conditions for effectiveness. In particular, the Ministry of Agriculture had been
instrumental in creating various committees to supervise the project, give technical advice
to ADMMEC, coordinate initiatives from competing rural finance schemes, pass the law
regulating the savings and loan associations, and mobilize the counterpart contribution to
the project.
6.    ADMMEC had fulfilled its mandate. Regular quarterly and annual reports based
on field missions and desk review of reports, accounted for progress made under the
project. Funds were requested in a timely manner and audits performed annually. The
1996 audit did find some deficiencies in its accounting system and project management.
However, remedial actions had been taken. In March 1997, ADMMEC became truly
representative of the savings and loan networks when 8 of the 9 members elected to its
board of directors were members of the networks. ADMMEC also initiated the creation
of a union grouping all salaried staff of the networks in an effort to improve their
professional skills. ADMMEC coordinated discussions among networks on CSBF's (the
supervisory banking commission) draft decrees affecting mutual savings and loan
associations.
7.    At project end, the international organizations providing technical assistance to
the savings and loan networks had reached their quantitative objectives, continued to
adapt their approaches to the needs of their beneficiaries, to initiate relationships with
social groups, and to stimulate participation of the population and expansion of the
mutualist movement. Still, much remains to be done.



-23-
Lessons Learnecl and Recommendations
8.    The project has set the stage for the mutualist movement to develop in
Madagascar and offers various lessons for stakeholders in their ongoing work. It is thus
recommended that:
* Government give stability (by creating a coordinating Government agency on
microfinance programs to help alleviate frequent institutional changes),
direction (by issuing a clear national strategy), and information (by setting up
and mnaintaining a national data base and conducting regular information
campaigns);
* microfinance terms be used uniformly across the country in order to avoid
confusion among beneficiaries;
* work standards for microfinance institutions be set up (accounting systems,
financial reporting requirements, audits, etc.);
* a national microfinance training center be created and relevant training
initiatives be supported;
- transfter of skills in microfinance be carefully planned;
r regional social diversities be seriously taken into account;
3 the World Bank maintain the same task manager over the life of the project.



APPENDIX B
Appendix B: Map of SLA Networks Financed by the Project
ANThYRANAAC
MA
7M._        S$ANLANA LVONrO
Y/=.VAThNJNA fENOAJIVO ATSINAN'A.A
&AMBATONORAZAKA
TSIROANOMN D 1DY \p.       M      OAL4S'[MA
AAI74,A4N'4Rz;o L 
FLNAANSA            1AJ A}RA41 ATSIMO
FAJAPAXG.-LNCA
TOAQ4/&i                                 ~~~~~~~LEGENDE2
IVAN(jAjNDR)               O
CECAM
BTiAVO
&ECA                    3



