è,Z 2 A!Af61
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
pi l'.    ii  '. ,;
,';~~~i -.t-   ,IA:,I 1,1 J,!h..S K'T"-'L5,    ':
; H +   H                                                        ..i ; ReportNo. P-5807-MAG
MORANUM AND RECO(MMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
I4TERNATIONAL DEVELOPM     ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 2.7 MILLION
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
RURAL FINACE  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JANUARY 13, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankl authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =             Malagasy Fraic (FMG)
US$ 1.00            =             FMG 1,920 (as of February 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY
ACCOSCA    African Confederation of Cooperative Savings and Credit Associations (Association
des Coop6ratives d'Epargne et de Credit - ACECA)
ADMMEC    Mutual Savings and Loan Development Association (Association de Developpement
du Mouvement Mutualiste d'Epargne et Credit)
APR          Annual Progress Report
AWP          Annual Work Program
BAMES        Malagasy Bank of Refinancing and Credit (Banque Malgache d'Escompte et de
Credit)
BCRM         Central Bank of the Republic of Madagascar (Banque Centrale de la Republique de
Madagascar)
BFV          Commercial Bank (Banky Fampandrosoana Ny Varotra)
EMOI         Malagasy Bank of the Indian Ocean (Banque Malgache de l'Ocean Indien)
BNI          Industrial Development Bank (Bankin' Ny Indostria)
BNM          National Development Bank for Madagascar (Banque nationale malgache de
developpement)
BTM          National Rural Development Bank (Bankin' Ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra)
CIDR         International Company for Development and Research (Compagnie internationale de
developpement et de recherche)
DINA         Internal regulation of grass-roots associations under Malagasy law
FERT         Foundation for Land Development (Fondation pour l'epanouissement et le renouveau
de la terre)
FIFATA       Association for the Advancement of Farmers (Association pour le progres des
paysans)
FMR          Rural Credit Program (Financement du Monde Rural)
GOM          Government of Madagascar
MPAPF        Ministry of Agricultural Production and Land Resources (Ministbre de la Production
Agricole et du Patrimoine Foncier)
SLAs         Savings and Loan Associations
ODRI         Individual Smallholder Credit Scheme (Operations de developpement rural integr6)
QPR          Quarterly Progress Report
SDID         Desjardins International Development Company (Societe de developpement
international Desjardins)
TSIMOKA    Association for Training and Support to Professional Agricultural Organizations
(Formation et appui aux organisations professionnelles agricoles)
WOCCU        World Council of Credit Unions (Conseil mondial des cooperatives d'dpargne et de
credit)
Government Fiscal Ye
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:        Association de Developpement du Mouvement Mutualiste d'Epargne et
Credit (ADMMEC).
Amount:             SDR 2.7 million (US$3.7 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with a final maturity of 40 years and a ten-year grace
period.
Relending
Terms:              Not applicable. Government will pass on the proceeds of the credit to the
beneficiary on a grant basis.
Financing Plan:
-  Local       Foreign        Total       % of
__________________________I      ......US$ milflion ........    Total
IDA                                     1.0          2.7          3.7        80
Government                    J        0.4           0.0          0.4         9
Implementing Organiations              0.1           0.4          0.5        11
HTotal                                  1.5           3.1          4.6       100
Rate of
Return:             Not applicable.
Map:                IBRD 23781R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ir. tie performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank a uthorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CRED1T
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT.
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recowmmdation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for SDR 2.7 million, or the equivalent
of US$3.7 million, on stndard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years and a ten-year grace period
to help finance a Rural Finance Technical Assistance Project. The proceeds of the credit would be
passed on by the Government to ADMMEC (Association de Ddveloppement du Mouvement
Mutualiste dEpargpe et Credit) on a grant basis.
2.    y/uLcw AW.   ftkgrwJnd. The Malagasy economy is primarily an agricultural economy.
Agriculture employs more than 80% of the labor force, supplies most of the food to the population,
and accounts for at least 80% of total foreign exchange eanings. Some 43% of GDP originates from
the agriculural sector, and agriculture supplies the bulk of inputs to the industria sector. Agricultural
output experienced a period of rapid growth, in the decade after independence in 1960, followed by
stagnaion and decline during the period of inadequate economic policies (1972-82), resumption of
growth under adjustment programs from the mid- 1980s onwards and a downturn in 1991-92 with the
onset of major political turmoil and strikes as of mid-1991. In the 1970s, the Government created
monopolies, controlled prices at low levels and failed to maintain public investments and services.
The adjustment in the agricultural sector began in 1986, with the liberalization of the rice trade.
Subsequeny, the trade in export and industrial crops was deregulated. Trade liberalization and
exchange rate adjustments have radically improved incentives for development and diversification of
exports. From 1987 onwards the Government began restoring essent  services (research, extension),
and improving the efficiency of irrigation, transferring management responsibilities to users. Overall,
the response fiom the agricultural sector to the adjustment measures has been mixed. Fisheries and
non-traditional agricultura exports, which benefitted from early trade liberalization, have significantly
expanded in the course of the last decade (fisheries exports became the third foreign exchange
earner). Macroeconomic refbrms undertaken have also raised the profkability of a nmbmer of goods
such as milk, fodder crops, wheat, maize, barley, potatoes and cassava. This has led to intensification
of agriculture in regions close to the main consuming centers, in particular in the central highlands
where irrigation rehabilitation has helped in the development of double-cropping. For traditional
export crops, however, the resuts have been poor, as terms of trade for many of them have
deteriorated (coffee, cloves, vanilla), and Government policy on market organization and taxation has
not allowed producers and traders to reposition themselves in thin markets with falling prices.
3.    To further support agricultural production for the domestic and export markets, the
Government's strategy for the sector concentrates on encouraging market development through
investment in infastructure and a supportive policy environment for rural finance, combined with
reinforcement of agricultural services for rura areas, particularly research and extension. Access to
financial services and organization of primary marketng would be improved with the development
of fiamer associations. Overall, this strategy is expected to encourage and allow diversification and
to increase output of crops for which Madagacar has a real comparative advantage. Significant
impact on incomes and employment as well as on export earnings should be felt throughout the
economy, with the greatest impact on the poor in rural areas.



- 2 -
4.    Since the mid-1980s, when the agriculture . ,ctor began to revive from depression, it has
become apparent that limited access to financial services due to high transaction costs and risks
associated with operations in rural areas is a constraint to agricultural growth in Madagascar. Formal
lending, in spite of many past efforts, reac1es less than 2% of the population and is restricted to
specific productive activities. Savings with formal institutions are virtually non-existent. Inormal
lending exists, but it is genuinely a last resort. Informal mutual savings and loan practices that exist
in other countries (e.g., tontines) are rare in Madagascar. There have been attempts to develop rural
financial oprations, mosdy through credit schemes with the Government-owned Rural Development
Bank, BTM. While almost all of them have been failures, the BTM has recenty introduced, wih
some success, new lending instruments unLier a pilot project, lending to farmer groups who provide
a mutud guarantee; the best performing branch (Miarinarivo) expanded lending sevenfold between
1986 and 1989, averages 98% recovery, reaches a qurter of the population in the area, and almost
covers its costs. This branch has begun promoting savings clubs. However, BTM as a whole, in spite
of its efforts, is locked in a high-cost, low-revenue situation which obliges 5t to live off its dwindling
stock of donor-provided money. BTM is also facing a serious liquidity shortage and management
problems which, recendy, led Government to start the process to privatize it. Clearly, it would take
a long tme Wore formal bank lending can play a more meaningful role in meedng small farmer
needs. More recently, several NGOs too have begun working in rural finance, taking a different
approach: gradually building up farmer groups that combine savings and loan activities. While
progress is slow, the potertal of these groups is unden!ible: they have created farmer interest in
savings and have shown a way of meeting farmers' financial requirements at much reduced cost.
5.    The financial sector was nationalized in the 1970s. In the framework of its adjustment
program, the Government initiated a reform of the sector. By end-1989, the portfolios of the three
state-owned banks had been fully cleaned up of all non-performing and of most doubtfid assets. In
1990, to encourage firther competition in the fmancial sector, the Central Bank began replacing
direct quanttative control mechanisms by a more flexible system based on the use of indirect market
fntuments. In the same year, a private nes bank with majority foreign capial started opations
and, in eady 1991, one of the three state-owned banks was privatized, while a second obtained
minority private participation and two other foreign banks opened representations in Madagascar.
An interim management team was nominated in 1991 to restructure and privatize BTM.
6.    Pxject 0bjective. The key objective of this project is to stimulate and support the creation
of a savings and loan movement at the grass-roots level which can provide financial services on a
sustainable basis to its members and over time develop banking and borrowing relationships with
formal institutions. It would be a pilot institution building operation providing technical assistance in
order to encourage a culture of member responsibility for pooling of resources and for lending and
repayments.
7.    E oj ecDagdZigT. Ihe project would be a four-year pilot operation. It would include: (a)
establishment of Savings and Loan Associations (SLAs) in which all forms of savings including
savings in kind would be tested; (b) support for project management, monitoring and evaluation, by
ADMMEC, which has been established as a non-government association; and (c) services to develop
off-farm activities through basic and entrepreneurship training in rural areas. Ihe project would not
provide any monies for SLA lending. Project costs and financing plan, procurement methods and
disbusement, and processing evens are presented in Schedules A, B and C, respectively.



-3 -
(i)    SviW and Loan Associations. (Estimated costs US$2.7 million for the savings and loan
schemes, and US$0.5 million for trainig). This component would comprise savings and loan
promotion schemes in new pilot areas and the extension of existing experiences in promoting SLAs,
and training of Malagasy personmel and local NGOs engaged in rural finance. New savings and loan
promoion schemes would be launched in at least three regions. Together with exisdng schemes, the
project would cover the high potential socio-onomic regions including areas with particular promise
for the development of the savings and loan movement. The project would pay for services to be
provided in new areas, including: feasibility studies to identify specific locations within the region
selected; identification of target populations to include individual women or women groups; education
and training in the savings and loan concept; support for the creation of SLAs, including provision
of management and accounting tools and safes; and development of savings and loan prol-ams, in
collaboration with local institutions and personnel. Support would be also provided for the expansion
of the savings and loan promotion schemes presendy undertaken by two NMOs, and for other local
NGO involvement in savings and loan promotion. Rural finance training programs would be
developed for local NOOs through short-term technical assistance contracts.
(i)   Services to MiFroenterrises.  dEstimated costs US$0.2 million). The project also would
support extension services to non-farm entrepreneurs who typically lack access to technical training
and finance. This would be done in association with the development of SLAs in pilot areas. The
services would cover studies on the potential of off-farm activities and related training needs. Such
services would be secured through "Entreprendre I Madagascar", a specialized private agency
established with ILO's assistance, and other competent local consulting firms.
(iii)  Proiect Management. Monitoring and Evaluation. (Estimated cost US$1.2 million). Tne
project would be managed by ADMMEC, which would secure services necessary to support the SLAs
in the field, and their phased development into a national savings and loan movement. ADMMEC
would also monitor project execution and evaluate its impact. ADMMEC would be staffed with a
small team of specialists including an expatriate consultant.
8.    Project Implementation. ADMMEC would coordinate overall project execution. It would
supervise implementation of the field level savings and loan promotion by competent consultancy
organizations. It would also contract out the services to the consulting organizations for savings and
loan promotion, training programs for local NGOs and microenterprises. It has been established by
private organizations concerned with the development of the savings and loan movement. The
founding members of ADMMEC have elected a board of directors which has no Government
representon. Government would exercise indirect control on the use of public funds by ADMMEC,
including the proceeds of the IDA Credit, through a Steering Committee which would review and
approve ADMMEC's budget and work program anualy including all major contracts.
9.    Ptgject S bilty. The project design is a departure from traditional supply-led credit
projects. The project is not intended to on-lend IDA funds. The proposed approach is based on the
need to promote sustainable grass-roots SLAs emphasizing group savings and avoiding any credit
subsidy. Ihey would be privately owned and funded, and developed on the basis of members'
demand for such services. This is expected to improve their sustainability. Also because investments
and overheads would be kept at a miniWmum, and accumulation of reserves would be emphasized,
grass-roots SLAs are expected to break even by the second year of operation. The expected expansion
of membership in the network of SLAs to be established and the development of local capacity in
SLA promotion would contibute to spreading the grass-roots savings and loan movement to



-4-
neighboring regions as a first step, and to other regions later on. Tbhis is epected to lay tL*
foundatio for a union/federation of SLAs consisting of financial instiutions that are autonomous and
self-manaed.
10.   Lessonfrom Previous MA Operations. IDA financed two agricultural credit projects which
atempted among other things to develop rural finaicial services throug  the National Rural
Development Bank (BTM) In 1981 and 1987. As illustrated in the Project Compledon Report for the
First Agricutural Credit Project and from the exwience under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, BTM's rural programs failed to grow as they tried essentially to build a credit-only market-
limited to agr cultural production credit-and were rather "top-down". BTM was also unable to reduce
cosm and risks associated with smallholder lending as it faied to dectralize functions to farmer
groups. A major lesson is that a centralized, parastatal development bank offring credit only is
unlikely to develop a viable rural financial program with broad national coverage. Also, for the ural
fincial market to fimction, the right instittions and instruments, as well as a profitable real sector,
are required. The development of farmer associations with guidance from parter NGOs could play
a meanigu role in rural finance provided an appropriate legal framework and proper coordination
of NGO activities are in place. These are established under the proposed project.
11. Rationale for IMA Involvement. The overriding goal of Bank assistance strategy is to
prom&t. sustained per capita growth with equity. One important focus is to improve productivity,
incomes and food security in rural areas where a majority of the poor live. This would be
acconmrished, i;lt, through the provision of improved infrastructure and services (mcluding
financial) to rural areas. A more active role for the private sector, including NGOs, in the
development process is also envisaged. The proposed project contributes to these objectives. The
economic reform program launched in the mid-1980s removed major distortions in the economy and
gve farmers Incentives to produce for the market. However, to ensure sustaied growth m
agriculture, investment is now needed in rural infrastructure and services. The proposed project, by
sWporting the creation and development of rural SLAs at the grass-roots level, will lay the foudation
for Increasing investment in production activities in the rural areas. The government supports the new
approach to the development of a healthy nural finmce sector and relies on IDA advice and finance
to test and implement the development phase.
12. Agr.e Acdons During negotiations the statutes and operating principles of ADMMEC and
a draft law and standard statutes for SLAs were reviewed and agreed upon as wel as a mechianisr
for coordinating donors' activities. ADMMEC has been established as a non-rofit assodatio in the
public interest. Government's policy on developing SLAs is reflected in a Policy Statement. The
folowing agreements were reached during negotiations: (a) Governmen would carry out joidy with
IDA a comprehensive mid-term review of the project no later than June 30, 1995; (b) pilot areas for
establishing SLAs would be selected based on critera satisfactory to IDA; and (c) conditions of
Credit Effectiveness would include: the opening of a special account in a local commercia bank
acceptable to IDA; the enactment of the SLA law saisfcory to IDA; the appointnent of at least two
competent consultancy organizations to implement the savngs and loan schemes; appropriate stng
of ADMMEC with a team of specialists; execution of a Subsidiary Credit Agreement to pan the
proceeds of the credit to ADMMEC as grants; and the creation of a Steering Committee to approve
the use of public funds by ADMMEC.
13.   Emdiron       AM=. As the opeation will be a technical assistance and instution building
prject to improve access to rural financial services, it has no direct environmental impact. Therefore



-  -
it was aigned Environmental Assessment Category C, and no environmental assessment is required.
However, indirecty, the project is expected to have positive environmental benefits. As many
Malagasy farmers face deterioraing environmenta conditions (soil erosion, siltation of irrigation
systems), demand for pooled savings resources is likely to emerge to improve irrigation, watershed
protection and soil management activities. The formation of groups as envisaged under the project
would enhance the execution of such activities.
14.   Prog    byecte Ca1egQdes. The project would contribute to reducing rural poverty and
enhancing food security in line with the county's current strategy. It would also help develop private
iiiatives in the rural sector and further support Malagasy women's traditional role in managing
household savings, underpinning IDA's activities to promote private sector development and
encourage women's participation in rural financial activities.
15.   Benefits. 'he major benefits expected ftom the project would be (a) to develop a methodology
for promoting SLAs, and to provide improved access to financial services at the local level.
Membership in the SLAs and the financial discipline developed would also enable individual members
as weil as the groups to be beter credit risks for banks. Cultivation of the savings habit by itself
would also induce additional Investments, out of own savings, by individual members of the SLAs,
as well as by groups; (b) to create a demonstration effect froidi the project approach which would
serve as a catalyst for SLA development in other areas and also help in education and community
development; (c) to develop a local capacity in SLA promotion; and (d) to contribute to increasing
the living standards and productive capacity of rural people. About 12 savings-cum-redit groups now
exist in Madagascar involving about 600 families, or 4,000 persons. The operation would aim to
reach about 10,000 additional farm families, or 65,000 persons at least, in selected areas.
16.   Eiask.  The most important risk would be donor funding of rural credit involving
subsidization. Close donor coordination based on a clear statement of Government policy in the sector
would alleviate this risk. A rural savings and loan movement is long and slow ir building, and
farsightedness is required to avoid rushing the process. The project would draw on the basic
methodology applied successfilly worldwide in the promotion of SLAs. A managerial risk also exists
as institudons would be new and inexperienced. This risk would be minimized, however, through
adequate regulation and monitoring systems, intemal and external auditing arrangements, and
membership and management training.
17.   R mndton. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Jauary 13, 1993



-6-
SchesduleA
PRJEMCT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
ESmtdCosts:
Local I Foreign I Total
I____________________      _    .    U US$   million 
A. Savings and Loan Promotion   0.7      2.2      2.9
B. Services to Microenterprises  0.0     0.1      0.1
C. Monitoring and Evaluation    0.2      0.4      0.6
fD. Project Management          0.3      0.2      0.5
Total Basline Costs             1.2      2.9      4.1
Physical Contingencies          0.1      0.0      0.1
Price Contingencies             0.2      0.2      0.4
Total Project Cost              1.5      3.1      4.6
Local      Foreigp       Total      % of
__________................. US$ minion.Tota
IDA                                  1.0          2.7         3.7        80
Government                           0.4          0.0         0.4         9
Implementing Organizations           0.1          0.4         0.5        11
Total                                1.5          3.1         4.6       1



Schedule B
PROCUREMIfENT METHQDS AND DISBURSEMENT
Pmueme  Tabls
(USS mdllion)
Caeo"                                  ICB        LCB        LS        Oher         TOtal
TA for Savingp and Loan Protion
Schemes and ADMMEC. and                                                 3.1          3.1
Conaultancical'                         -                     -     j   (2.6)       (2.6)
Vehicles, Equipment and Materials       0.5        0.1                               06
(0.3)     (0.1)                             (0.4)
Training                                                                0.5          0.5
(0.4)       (0.4)
Incrmental Recurnt Costa'                                    02         0.2          0.4
___________________ ___    ___                   -    --     (0.2)      (0.1)        (0.3)
Total                                   0.5        0.1       0.2        3.8          4.6
(0.3)     (0.1)     (0.2)       (3.1)       (3-7)
Nowt: Figures in paehse are the espective amous financed by IDA Credit.
Estimatd Disbu    nt:
(USS mllion)
IDA FY            PY94              FY95              FY96              FY97              FY98
Annual                       0.5               0.8               1.0               1.               0.3
Cumavo                        0.5               1.3               2.3               3.4              3.7
Disburseet of IDA Crodi
Cat y by IDA                                                        % Financed         _US$ million
1. Conaultancy Sevices                                                 100%                   2.1
2. Vehicles, Equipment and Materials                                   100%                   0.3
3. Trning                                                              90%                    0.3
4. Incrm Oenpeting Costs'|   On a declining basis.                                            0.3
S. Refund of PPF                                                                              0.4
6. Unallocated                                                                                0.3
Total                            j37
1/      This item corresponds to consultancy sevices. Bank pocedures for selction of consultants would apply.
a/      This item corresponds to staff salaries and per diems, operating costa of vehicles and equipment, and office
rent
/       hIncludes the cost of stff salaries and per diems, operating costs of vehicles and equipmet, and office rent.
Finaing would be on a declining basis: 100% through December 31, 1995 and 50% thereafter.



Soedule C
TIMEj"LABLE OF THE PROJES MY PR SING EVENT-
First IDA mission                       June/July 1990
Preparadon by Government                July 1991-February 1992
Appraisal mission departure             February 199t
Negotiations                            December 1992
Board presentation                      February 1993
Plamed Dae of effectiveness             June 1993
Relevant Project Completion Report   PCR First Agricuturl Credit Project (June
1988).
This rpoA is based on the fndin  of a Bank appai  miion whih visited Madagasr in Februaty/March 1992,
I oompdsng Meas. 0. Sibko (Mission Leader), S. Thiflairajah (IDA), 0. Morn and R. Wieland (Cosutats). A
Peer Rviewr, Mr. J. Yarwn, has eviewed the project ftom te Inial Execuive Piject Surnas. Mr. Luis Schunk
provided secial    olt n tho prpation of te repolt. Mose. A. Ottn and F. Aguirre-Saasa, are th
managing Division Chief and De _ait   Dior, repectively, for he opernon.



-9-
MADA
Staus Of Ba*  roLp Operaticns In KAACAR
PFDBR25 - 9Amsry Statent Of Loam ard IDA Credfts
(LOA data as of 10/30U92 - MIS data as of 1U0492)
............................................................................................. _
9y Country
Country:   MDAGASCAR
Dm,nt in USS million
(less cncellatior*)
LOWi or   Flseal                                                                                     Unxis- Closirg
Credit No.     Year  Borrower                         Prpose                     Bark        IDA      bured   Date
.... ...........    . ... .. .......     ...... ... .......                                           ........ .. .. ....
Credits
44 Credits(s) closed                                                                        617.15
C14970-MAG    1984   MADAGASCAR                       ISAN I                                12.80       3.85  12/3/92(R)
C15890-MAG    1985   MADAGASCAR                       IRRIGATION REHAB.                     10.57       5.47 06/30/93(R)
C16610-MAG    1986   MADAGASCAR                       ACCT./NGMT. TRAINING                  10.30       9.44  12/31/92
C16940-MAG    1986   MADAGASCAR                       RAILWAYS III                          12.00        .43  12/31/92(R)
C17090-MAG    1986   MADAGASCAR                       AG.INST.TAS tt                        10.00       1.62 12/31/92(R)
C17520SZ AG    1987   4ADAGASCAR                      PORT REHABILITATION                   16.00       7.83 03/31/93
C17870-MAG    1987   MADAGASCAR                       ENERGY I                              25.00      13.98  12/31/92
C18040-MAG    1987   MADAGASCAR                       AGRI.CR. 11(9T)                       10.00       1.10  06/30/94
C18780-MAG    1988   MADAGASCAR                       FOREST MGT                             7.00      3.86  01/31/96
C19050-MAG    1988   MADAGASCAR                       HIGHWAYS VII                          40.00      29.73 06/30/93
C19280-MAG    1988   MADAGASCAR                       ILN4HtTE ENO                           8.5s       5.79 06/30/93(R)
C19410-MAG(S) 1988   MADAGASCAR                       PUBLIC S£C.ADJ                       125.00     47.60 09/30/92(R)
C19670-MAC    1t99   MADAGASCAR                       MACRO EMSAP/TA                        22.00      17.95 06/30/94
C20420-MAG    1989   MADAGASCAR                       AGRIC RESEARCH                        24.00      24.12  12/31/96
C20940-MAG    1990   MADAI CAM                        0UC SECT REINF                        39.00     35.94 06/30/96
C21040-MAG    1990   MADA'ASCAR                       fIN SECTORAPX                         48.00     46.46 06/30/97
C21170-MAG    1990   MAW-r,SCAR                       TANA PLAIN DEV                        30.50     30.81 06/30/97
C21250-MAG    1990   MADAGASCR                        ENVIROWMENT                           26.00     24.58 06/30/96
C21500-MAG    1990   MWAGASCAR                        PWLOT EXTENSION                        3.68      2.28 06/30/94
C22430-MAG    1991    MADAGASCAR                      LIVESTOCK                             19.80      17.44 06/30/99
C22510-MAG    1991   MADAGASCAR                       NAT HEALTH SECTOR                     31.00     31.16 06/30/97
C19414-AG(S) 1992   MADAGASCAR                        PUBIC SEC.ADJ                          1.30       1.41  01/13/93
C2320-MAG     1992   MADAGASCAR                        OC. EDULOTION                        22.80      23.54 06/30/98
TOTAL nmier Credits a  23                                                                    555.30    386.40
Loams
5 Loans(s) closed                                                               32.57
ALL closed    for    MADAGASCAR
TOTAL ,uter Lonu       0



- 10 -
MADAGASCAR
Status Of Bark Group Operations In MADAGASCAR
PfOfR25 Summary Statenent Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 10t30192 - HIS data as of 12/04/92)
. ._. ............. ............. _........... ..................... ..............
ay Country
Cowutry:   MADAGASOAR
Anmunt in USS mili on
(less cancellations)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                                    Urdis- Closint
Credit No.      Year    orrower                        Purpose                     Bark         IDA      bursed  Date
.... ..... _.  ... _... .  .........._                 . ......          .....                           ......  . .. ....
TCTAL***                                                           32.57    1,172.45
of which repaid                                                  18.35       26.71
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                           14.22    1,145.74
Anwunt sold
of which repaid
T0TAL unddisbursed                                                                       386.40
Notes:
* Not yet effective
*N ot yet signed
Totat Approved, Repaymeits, ard Outstandirg balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
CR) frdicates formatty revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayrents are historical value, all others are narket value.
The Signirg, Effective, ad Closirg dates are based upon the Loan Departnent offical data and are not taken
fronm the Task BuSdget fite.



MADAGASCAR
Statement of IFC Investments
(as of October 31, 1992)
(in USSMillions)
Investment    Fiscal                  ObtIgor                    Type of Business        Loan     Equity      Total        Dis-        Undis-
Number        Year                                                                                                     bursement    bursed
367-MAG       1977    Socfdtd Textile de Malungoa  S.A.      Textiles                   14.70       0.30       15.00         3.70        0.00
954-MAG       1987
530-MAG       1980    Data S.A.  talgache                    Shoe Manufacturing          1.30                   1.30         0.00        0.00
690-MAG       1984    Pecheries de Nosaf-Be                  Fishing                     6.90       0.20       7.20          5.10        0.00
1187-MAO       1990
800-MAO       1986    La Cotomibre d'Antsirabe S.A.          Textiles                   10.90       0.20       11.10         10.3        0.40
1198-MAG      1990
1219-NAG      1977    FInanci&re d tnvestIssement ARO        Venture Capftat             0.00       0.50        0.50         0.40        0.00
2116-MAO       199     Sank'ny Indostrfa                      Commercial Dank             0.00      2.60        2.60         2.60        0.00
3243-MAG       1992    Aqualma                                AgrIbusiness                1.90      0.60        2.50         0.00        2.50
Total Gross Comitments                                           35.70      4.40       40.10        22.10        2.90
Less: Repayments, cancellations,
TermInations and Sales                                     15.16      0.00       15.10
Total Commitments now held by IFC                                20.60      4.40        2S.0
Total Undfsbursed                                                 2.30      0.60        2.90
Total Dfsbursed                                                  18.30      3.80       22.10



-12-
NOTE ON PRECTS WITH SIGNIFICANT DISB            EMENT L
1. Most Madagascar projects have suffered from slow disbursements due essentially to generic problems,
including (a) lack of counterpart funds; (b) difficulties for project managers to access IDA funds deposited in
special accounts opened by the Central Bank and operated by signatories in the Treasury; and (c) cumbersome
public procurement procedures due to repeated reviews by central agencies. The situation worsened in July 1991
with the onset of political turmoil. Large scale demonstrations and strikes paralyzed public administration and
severely disrupted economic activity. The country is now in a process of polidcal transition (elections
underway, with a new government expected to be in place during the first half of 1993) which is still slowing
project implementation. These generic problems have affected all projects, in addition to project-specific delays.
'Me following projects have the most significant disbursement lags:
Irrigatitn Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1589-MAG). Start-up delays due to lack of adequate technical assistance
and the severity of the above generic problems were among the main causes for slow disbursements. Technical
assistance has now been secured and generic problems are being addressed.
Accounting and Manaaement Training Project (Cr. 1661-MAGQ. Even though the project has attained most of
Its goals, disbursements are low due to larger than anticipated co-financing from grants by Canada and France.
A consultant team has recently prepared proposals to reformulate the project so that IDA fimds may be used
more fully.
Seventh Highway Project (Cr. 1905-MAG). This project was mostly affected by the generic problems of
cumbersome procurement procedures and lack of counterpart funds. Many contracts have now been signed and
disbursements are expected to increase significantly during 1993.
Public Sector Adiustment Credit (Cr. 1941-MAG). The economic reform program was negatively affected by
the political turmoil which started in mid-1991; delays in meeting the conditions for third tranche release are
the main factor preventing fill disbursement. Steps must be taken to implement public enterprise reform, to
agree on a public expenditure program, and to reinstate a viable macroeconomic framework including rigorous
public finance management and a return to a liberalized system for foreign exchange allocation. The Bank has
ageed to the Govenmuent's request to extend the closing date to September 30, 1993 to allow more time to
meet the third tranche conditions.
Economic UMnUM     and Social Action Project (Cr. 1967-MAQ).  Implementation of IDA-financed
components has been slow, pardy due to complexity of project design. Components financed by grants from
Switzerland and UNDP were disbursing more rapidly. Following the e5tablishment of a project execution unit,
the disbursement rate has picked up and the project was redesigned in October 1992 to streamline its activities.
National At Iun    Research Prject (Ct 2042-MAG). The project experienced an eight-month start-up delay
in meetng credit effectiveness conditions. Project execution was disrupted in 1991 due to the political turmoil
in the country and continues to be affected by institutional disputes.
2.    Some recent breakthroughs have been made which should go some way towards addressing the generic
problems imvolving procurement and access to special accounts. These breakthroughs followed the Country
Implementtion Review (CIR) in Anananarivo in December 1990 and a follow-up CIR in March 1992.
Government agreed to: (a) issue new regulations for procurement and use standard bidding documents which
comply with Bank guidelines; and (b) publish a decree allowing project managers to have direct access to special
accounts to be opened in commercial banks to ensure that funds for project implementation are available as and
when needed. Standard Bank bidding documents are already being used, and the new special accounts are
expected to be operational by April 1993. In addition, attention is being given to the availability of counepr
funds for Bank projects within the context of public expenditure/ invetment reviews, and to idenfying areas
where shiftng priorities or resource constraints may necessitate restructuring. Another CIR will be planned
soon after the new government is in place, with a view to agreeing on priorities' and remedial measures to
improve project implementation in the country.



-13 -                              Anex 1
MADAGAR
RURAL FINANC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJE(:T
I. BACKGROUND
A. EMectsforAgculur
1.    Dhe Importance of Agricultur. Recent analysis has confirmed the important role of
agriculture as the potential engine of growth for the Malagasy economy. In a context where
priva consumption has dropped by a third over the last decade, agriculture, which accounts for
more than 80% of the labor force, has far the biggest contribution to make to rebuilding domestic
markets. Through multiplier effects, each extra dollar of agricultural output will raise GDP by
two and a half dollars, and the bulk of this increase in output and incomes will accrue to poor
people and will create employment. Tbus agricultura development holds the key to expansion
of the domestic market, satisfying employment and equity targets too.
2.    Domestic Market Potential. Madagascar has good scope for increasing output of
production for both domestic and external markets. Import substitution is possible and
economically viable for rice, dairy and vegetable oil. Demand for all food products has a high
elasticity at present income levels, so that demand will go up as incomes go up. In addition,
changing consumption patterns in towns are creating demand for non-rice food crops.
3.    Expr Market endal. Madagascar also enjoys attractive prospects for agricultural
exports. Due to its ecological diversity and natural resource endowment, it can grow almost any
type of crop, ranging from exotic tropical products to temperate horticulural products. It also
benefits from large fishery resources. Madagascar can produce products of excellent natural
quality (e.g. cocoa, vanilla, cloves, pepper dnd other spices, groundnuts, tobacco, specialty rice,
etc.), and some unique commodities (e.g. medicinal plants), and the country can capitalize on the
organic properties of much of its agricultural production. Because of its geographical location,
it also has the opportunity to supply the rich northern markets in winter when prices are high.
Furthermore, as an island, Madagascar is also free from many diseases encountered elsewhere;
this situation could be exploited for instance for export of livestock products. Madagascar has
the potential to export a large range of high value agricultural commodities, and the capacity to
transform and process locally a much higher share of its agricultural exports. This should
compensate for Madagascar's remoteness. Finally, certain regional markets (Reunion, Mauritius,
Seychelles, South Africa, the Arabian peninsula), in which Madagascar enjoys a relative cost
advantage, are under-exploited.
B. Towards a Rural Development Strategy
4.    Need for an Integrated Stratesv. Developing this market requires a comprehensive
agricultural strategy based on the intensification of the small-farm sector in the high potential,
densely populated areas of the country. This strategy vwould also lead to the development of the
rural non-farm economy, and has strong potential for increasing the size of the domestic market,
as well as providing sizeable off-farm employment opportunities. The strategy requires action
at the level of macro-economic policies (exchange rate, price stabilization, export taxation, etc.),



-14-                                Annex I
investment in physical infrastructure (transport and communications, irrigation, rural markets),
and institutional reform and development (business legislation, rural financial policies, etc.).
5.    Stag  Pnintie. Efficient production requires many factors to be brought together:
reliable transport and communication infrastructure linking the farm with the market; water
availability, control and management; drainage; improved protection of watersheds; efficient input
markets; extension and vetrinary services; access to credit; commodity markets; storage; and
price information. These conditions are satisfied patchily at present, and the development
strategy must concentrate on improving the situation in high potential areas to enable farmers to
exploit the potental for growth.
6.    Mak  Oraization. The most pressing constraint is lack of marketing infrastructure,
institutions and services. Spot markets in the form of organized, regular and well-established
physical markets In rural areas remain under-developed. As a result, costs of transactions are
high, information does not circulate, and markets remain fragmented and dispersed, perpetuadng
the monopolistic and oligopolistic structure of trade in rural areas. Market institutions such as
producer associations, which would increase farmers bargaining power and reduce transaction
costs, are also underdeveloped. Professional organizations for certain activities like grading and
packaging standards, export market promotion, market analysis and information, and product
research do not exist. Financial market infrastructure and financial institutions to provide support
to the development of real markets are weak in rural areas.
7.    Strateg and Expected Results. Government's strategy for the sector should concentrate,
therefore, on encourang market development dtrough Investment in infastructure and a
supportive policy environment for rural finance, combined with reinforcement of agricultural
services for rural areas, particularly research and extension. Development of farmer institutions
is key to improving organization of primary marketing and access to finmcial services. Overall,
this strategy is expected to encourage and allow diversification and to increase output of crops
for which Madagascar has a real comparative advantage. Significant impact on incomes and
employment as well as on export earnings will be felt throughout the economy, with the greatest
impact on the poor in rural areas.
C. Rural Finance
Credit to the Rural Sector
8.    Since 1987, bank credit for agricultural production and investment has been between 14%
and 17% of total credit; credit to agro-industry has ranged from 10% to 13%; and credit to
commerce, which is predominantly for trade in agricultural products, has ranged between 18%
and 20%. Financing for agriculture and for trade in agricultural products has been increasing
as a proportion of total credit to the economy. However, production credit is small in relation
to agricultural GDP. In 1990, outstanding credit for production and agricultural investment was
FMG 99 billion, or 8% of gross sector output of FMG 1,200 billion. At the export stge, by
contrast, the banks finance over 90% of exported value. There has been a marked rise in the
share of the private sector borrowing, which reflects the sustained privatization progr and the
withdrawal of the Government from economic activities. Overall, the private sector took three
quarters of all bank credit in 1990, against only half in 1987.



- IS -                               Annex-I
ing Larg Scale Rural Eantw ises
9.    Large farms and the larger marketing and agro-processing fims have good access to
credit, both seasonal production credit and investment loans (under donor-financed lines of
credit). About 95% of total credit to the agricultura sector goes to these larger enterprises.
There are, however, problems in financing larger scale rural enterprises. Banks tend to favor
the established structure of well-known operations and trusted clients, resuting in difficulties for
new fims to gain access. Tbis pattern also increases the banks' exposure to a few clients. In
addition, the structure of production and trade c'ncentrates on relatively few products, which also
creates risks for banks. Finally, the oligopolistic structure of both trade and the banking sector
has allowed the banks to be quite conservative in developing new lending instruments. Only
recently has the advent of a more dynamic approach to export marketing created a demand for
new instruments for pre-export finmacing.
10.   Formal   dit. Demand for credit is highly differentiated, from short term emergency
credit, through working capital supplements to credit for investment in inputs and equipment.
Moreover, in contrast to the good access to credit of larger enterprises, the formal banking sector
has hardly penetrated small scale rural finance: about 25,200 small farmers, only just over 1.5%
of small farmers in the country, get credit, and smallholder credit represents only about 5% of
ail agricultural credit. Cottage industries and small rural traders have virtually no access to
formal credit. This situation has continued despite a relatively dense rural branch banking
network, years of effort through BTM at developing sma1lholder credit, and considerable
investment on the part of Government and donors. Non-official credit schemes cover only a few
thousand farmers. The picture varies, however, substantially by region; in the cash crop areas
and in the better-served markets of the highlands, where the smallholder economy is more
monetized, a higher than average percentage of farmers gets credit.
11.   Infornnal Credi. Some form of informal sector lending is prevalent in all rural areas; in
many documented cases, however, it is reportedly usurious and assumed to be a factor in growing
inequality in some areas. There is no link between formal and informal credit systems. Infonnal
mutual savings and loan practices that exist in other countries (e.g. tontines) are rare in
Madagascar. The country, however, enjoys an historic tradition of cooperation, based on
cenuries of irrigated rice production, and this cooperation resembles a system of mutual credit
in kind (barter). The social unit of the extended family with its physical and spiritual links to its
common ancestors also provides fertile ground for a cooperative spirit.
12.   Savings. Substantial savings are generated in the rural sector. In all areas, however,
farmers show a marked preference for savings in real form in preference to financial assets.
There are some savings-based rural finance systems or programs in Madagascar at present. In
most areas there are no attractive financial savings instruments for farmers.
D. The Evolution of Small Scale Rural Finance
Early Credit Schemes
13.   In the colonial period and later, successive governments tried to promote production
credit schemes. Until independence, these schemes benefitted only settlers. After independence,
mutual associations were tried, in which members were jointly responsible for repayment. The



-16-                               Annex I
associations, known as the SociWte de Credit Agricole Mutuel, SCAM, foundered when the
Government, in the early 1970s, announced their Immediate extension nationwide. Unsupervised
groups quicldy formed and never repaid loans.
Prorams of the National Rural Development Bank (BOM
14.   The government-owned BTM has, since its creation in 1977, been the dominant lender
to the smallolder sector-with 90 % of total lending to smallholders in 1990. BTM has the
mandate and official encouragement to develop programs in smallholder finance and has
benefitted from considerable grant financing and technical assistance under four internional aid
projects. Shortly after its creation, BTM was required to run a credit system for small farmers
by using the newly created local authority network. Loans were made to individual villagers, and
the village authorities handled the paperwork and recommended the loans. After rapid expansion
in the late 1970s, the system ran into grave repayment problems, and most villages had to be
"closed" to fiurther credit. Some village authorities did not have the skill or the probity to play
their roles, and each village and administrative unit was not close-knit enough to respect the
mutuality required to maintain the system. In addition, the poor profitability of agricultura
production at the time-and the collapse of farmer services and input and output markets-led to
a drop in demand for credit. BTM thus scaled down its lending program to minimal levels.
15.   Once the program of macroeconomic and sectoral adjustment was under way, beginning
in 1986, profitability in the nra sector began to revive, as did demand for credit. In 1986,
BTM began a big effort to develop its rural credit program, concentrating on high-potential areas
in the central highlands and around Lac Alaotra. As part of this effort and with IlDA support,
BTM launched a pilot project in six rural branches in 1987. The objective was to experiment
ways to reduce costs and losses from smallholder lending and to increase lending volume to test
if BTM's smallbolder lending could become self-sustaning without fiuther injection of
government or donor fimds. BTM introduced programs such as the village grain banks and
group loans against collective guarantees to reduce the costs and risk of providing credit to
smallholders: it bulked loans to farmers' groups, and offered new services that were appreciated
by farmers and reduced BTM's risk and, therefore, its loan losses. BTM also tried to improve
the efficiency of its management by creating a separate operational structure for smallholder
finace; task sharing with the extension service under contract; increasing field staff and field
mobility; developing personalized relationships between farmer groups and the BTM agent; and
simplifying procedures. This approach has had some success, particularly where there has been
a close relationship with the extension service. The best pilot branch-Miarinarivo-expanded
lending sevenfold in 1986-89, averaged 98% loan recovery, reached a quarter of the population
of the area, and almost covered its costs. Under the pilot project, BTM achieved a 92% recovery
rate in 1989. Losses were thus 8% of lending, and operating costs averaged 7%. Losses were
considerably higher on non-pilot operations, where recovery rates averaged only 71%.
16.   The basic instrument used by BTM in its smallholder programs is the annual crop
production loan, almost exclusively applied to rice. However, under the pilot project, BTM has
tested other instruments, notably the "village grain banks". Initiated by an IFAD-funded
extension project (ODR) in the Vakinankaratra these grain banks are set up by farmers'
associations and used as security for off-eason loans. Paddy is stored in the grain banks at
harvest, and BTM makes a loan to the group. The loan is generally invested in off-saon crops.



-17 -                              Annx I
Six months later, farmers repay the loans from proceeds from the off-season crops or by selling
the stored paddy at higher prices. From a modest start in 198687, this program is spreading
rapidly and is being copied in other areas. Repayment of these loans has been 100%.
17.   During the period of state intervention (1975-85), the cooperative movement was actively
promoted by the government. The movement's failure has devalued the image of a formal
association in famers' eyes. However, Madagascar enjoys a robust tradition of mutual help,
which is re-emerging in the form of largely informal farmer associations. Associations of this
kind are taking over responsibility for a range of activities-such as irrigation maintenance, input
supply, crop marketing, seed production, and credit. The Ministry of Agriculture estimates that
about 6,000 such associations involve 10% of the farming population. These associations are
concentratd In the highlands where they have been vigorousl) promoted by the extension service
and by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Some associations are formally registered, with
NGO stats. About 1,000 associations have become small credit groups of about twenty
members each, providing a mutual guarantee as security to the lender. Ihese groups have
generally been successful, particularly where there is a social cohesion to the group and where
a partner financial institution has entered into a stable and productive relationship with it.
18. Severad NMOs have worked with these groups on credit and savings and have shown their
ability to get to the grass-roots and test new approaches. One NGO (FERT/TSIMOKA) is
working in the Vakinankaratra with about 1,000 families organized into farmer associations
which, in turn, are grouped in a federation. FERTMIMOKA's experience has been based on
a credit-only approach (from extnally funded lines of credit) up until 1991, when a new
program was initiated under which savings was mobilized by farmer groups to make small loans
within the groups. A loan repayment rate of 100% was achieved under the new program as
compared with 68% under the extnally sourced loan program at the end of 1991. On the basis
of these results, FERTITSIMOKA stated promoting savings mobilization as a prerequisite to
credit. Another NGO (CIDR) is helping to set up a self-managed savings and loan scheme linked
to the banking system in Marovoay. To date, some 12 savings-cum-credit groups involving about
600 famiies each saving about FMG 20,000 per year, are being promoted by these two NGOs.
These efforts demonstrate that grass-roots farmer associations can generate savings and manage
savings and loan operations.
E. The ExUerience with IDA-Financed Agrilculral Credit Projects
19.   IDA has financed two agricultr  line of credit operations through BTM. The First
Agricultura Credit Project (Cr. 1064 MAG) of SDR 8.7 million to refmance BTM's program
of smallholder lending through village authorities (para. 14). The Credit became effective in
1981, but virtualy nothing was disbursed until 1983, as foreign exchange shortages and the
disrupdon of markets led to a drop in demand for credit and the inherent weakness of lending
through adminisrative authorities made itself apparent in poor recovery rates. At Governmt's
request the project was redesigned in 1983 to finance imports of agricultural inputs, which eased
the recovery of the sector during the early period of liberalization. In 1986, at the end of the
project, the value of BTM lending to small farmers was lower in real terms dtan at appraisal.
20.   The Second Agriculturil Line of Credit of SDR 8.0 million (Cr. 1804 MAG) became
effective in 1987. It finances investment loans to medium-scale agricultur and agro-industa
projects and a pilot credit management project. By mid-1992, the line had been fully committed



-18-                              Ann@zd
to some 30 private sector projects in a wide range of activities, largely in export crops and
fisheries. An institutional development component has financed support for improving accounting
and external audit, and for BTM's smallholder pilot project (para. 15).
F. Lessons from Experience
Lessons from BDTM Pefrmanc
21.   Under the pilot project begun in 1987, BTM's credit programs have shown promise. In
the best branches, the project has achieved acceptable recovery rates; the bad debts of 1 to 2%
are no greater than on its other lending business. BTM has progressively reduced costs by
stabilizing the officer-client relationship and by working with farmer groups which have become
known and tusted clients over the years. In the pilot project, by far the best recovery
performance was achieved with lending through fanner associations-which averaged 96% loan
recovery in 1989-and the best instrument has been the loan secured on stock in the "village grain
bank". Program expansion would require BTM to reduce its costs and risk, decentralize more
functions-for example, accountint-to groups, and firther develop low-risk instruments.
22.   However, despite considerable effort, the pilot project performance has been uneven, and
some  branches have performed poorly, even those like Antsirabe and Ambatolampy which are
in high-potential areas-with better extension coverage and nearby markets. Perhaps the most
di4^sappointg feature of BTM's programs is their scant coverage. Even with the growth in
agricultural potential and in services, credit coverage has not increased. In 1985, 22,400 farm
families were covered; in 1989 there were 25,200, i.e., 1.5% of all farm households. Despite
some inteesting iniatives, BTM remains a centalized, Government-owned, commercial bank
with high lending costs. Its programs failed to grow as they tried essentially to build a credit-
only market-limited to agricultural production credit-and were rather "top-down". The
inducement of donor grant fiuding has not produced much change; donors have contributed about
FMG 12 biSlion over the years, but BTM's lending to small farmers has never exceeded PMG
5 billion.
Lasn= fronmQ     Progrms
23.   The development in the 1960s of proto-mutualist groups (SCAMs) showed the potential
of these associations to give farmers access to financial services. However, the failure of the
SCAM movement is also instructive: its top-down charer proved its undoing, leading to a
standard approach nationwide that took no account of regional variations, and to an overapid
expansion at the behest of politicians. Also, the primacy given to credit over savings meant that
the SCAMs were not really the property of their members but of a parastatal development-bank
creditor. Thus the SCAMs did not have the autonomy to withstand outside interference.
24.   The more recent development of farmer associations with guidance from different
instutions has begun to demonstrate the institutional strength that comes from the farmer-owned
nature of the activity. In mral finance, farmer associations have shown that they can mobilize
savings and take on accounting and administrative tasks. Associations have also been able to
provide mutual guarantees, so reducing risk for members and pamer institutions. However, the
experience has also shown the lack of a clear legal and regulatory framework for savings and loan



-19-                               Annex I
associations, which is now being addressed under the proposed project. It is also clear that a
long education and promotion process is necessary to inculcate a culture of savings and
responsibility among people who have long been used to depending on subsidized credit
programs. Helping a new culture to develop also requires sustained guidance from partner
institutions like NGOs.
25.   This emerging NGO role in mral finance is, however, frall. Government attitude was
to emphasize controls based on the perceived political threat from NGOs rather than appropriate
regulations that would ensure accountability and transparency. Government has not attempted
to coordinate NGO activities. If NGOs are to work in rural finance they would need an improved
legal framework, a reorientation in Government attitude, coherent coordination, and access to
technical support. Government will establish an appropriate legal framework under the proposed
project (para. 68).
Inadequacy of Rural Financial Services
26. The Need for Financial Services in Rural Areas. In high-potential areas, the development
of new markets is creating a potential for intensification and diversification of production. Lack
of credit and savings schemes at the farm level in such areas hinders such growth. Moreover,
the lack of access to credit by farmers-and limited access to credit by commercial operators in
the lower links of the marketing chain-affect market efficiency by increasing price variability and
uncertainty, depressing farmgate prices, limiting competition among traders, and restricting
market outlets. A well-functioning rural finance system, at Madagascar's present stage of
development, would provide credit for investment and production in areas of high potential and
in areas well served by markets. Such a system would give impetus to traders to expand markets
in commodities and services. Access to financial services would also relieve the food insecurity
faced by the population in less-favored areas.
27.   Problems in Develoting Rurl Finance. The current fragmentary state of the rural
finance market in Madagascar reflects four types of problems. First, the rc  of lending to
smaIlholders is high. Intensification of production is inherently high risk, and there are few sure-
fire winners in Malagasy agriculture. A decent reurn for investment is not assured, especially
in the poorly developed markets in most areas of the country. Furthermore, under climatic
uncertainty, intensified production systems using cash inputs are more vulnerable. In addition,
credit programs have tended to concentrate on a few crops and regions, and hence risks tend to
be covariant. And, readily realizable, asset-backed guarantees scarcely exist. Second, the
transaction coe of formal credit for a far-flung clientele is expensive. Individual loans average
FMG 80,000 (lS$42); but servicing a small loan costs almost as much as servicing a larger one.
Information on clients, their activities-and even on production and prices-is hard to come by,
and thus expensive to collect. Farmers bear high monetary and other costs too, as the loans are
not precisely what they want-they come too late or in kind-and require endless discussions, trips
to town, filling out of forms, and fees or commissions. Third, rural finance institrdons in
Madagascar have some inherent problems. Highly centralized    &t --such as BTM-are
inherendy inflexible and costly, but the decentralized institutions are in their infancy. The NGOs
and associations working in rural finance have yet to prove their durability, and their ability to
integrate into financial markets without special treatment and subsidy. Fourth, overall Iiay for
rural finance has not been conducive to developing a viable market. Interest rates are set at well
below the cost of providing credit, and donor lines of credit have been used to provide a
generalized, nonspecific subsidy. Furthermore, efforts have focused almost exclusively on credit,



-20-
so that farmens have confused loans with government handouts, and the discipline and education
of savings have been neglected.
28.   Positive Developments in Rural Finance. Despite this oveall bleak picture of failure,
there have been some positive and interesting recent initiatives based on reduction of risk through
development of new guarantees (such as the village grain banks) or quasi guarantees (by working
through groups), and decentralization and instittion-building from the bottom up-the BTM pilot
project, NGO and group activities. Although these initiatives have not yet demonstrated how to
develop a viable financial market for most of the rural population, they are promising. Another
lesson is that the rural finance market needs not only the right structures and instruments but also
profitable activities in the real sector.
G. Etr Sraeg= to Promote Small-Scale Rural Finance
29.   In sum, current analysis concludes that existing top-dowr, Government-owned, credit-
only schemes will never be able to serve a large population in Madagascar; but that the
experience over the last few years with farmer associations has shown their potential for reducing
the risks and costs of small-fatamer lending, as well as the potential of these associations for
mobilizing savings.
30.   Through a series of seminars and workshops", different institutions involved in rural
finace in Madagascar have analyzed ways to resolve these problems. In late 1990, Govement
formed an  mi        l working group-the Cellule Technique de Finance RuraleO (CTFR)
to prepare a nadonal policy. The CTFR, supported by studies during the preparaion of the
proposed project, has concluded that the focus of effort in rural finance needs to be transferred
to bulding farmer-owned, savings-based institutions along mutualistW lines and in a culture of
farmer responsibflity. The CTFR commissioned a study on the feasibility of developing a
program along these lines. This feasibility study was carried out by the World Council of Credit
Unions (WOCCU), and concluded that such development was entirely feasible at present in
Madagascar. The CTFR therefore developed a proposal for building on the emergent network
of farmer groups as the foundation of a decentralized rural financial system, using modern
communication and education techniques and with a strong monitoring and evaluation component.
Assistamce to farmer groups would be provided by field-oriented development institons
including NGOs and extension services. This proposal has been accepted by Government for
implementaion.
31. The culture of this proposed development strategy would be a disciplined, self-reliant one
that gives emphasis and high priority to savings. The benefts of the development of savings and
I/    lbo FAO-_pt Rural Fae Sema  of Sqmbr 1990 and the IDA Rual Fian Review
(Febd 1992) as hipoan m _lesoe in th developmet of t  anaysis.
/      WMubJtaIW appe to vobata gius which seek a fidflihnet of their needs for specific srce
dthmu  pooling of their esour  and wh joint liabity. Invdal m eb p_ioiat equal n
ownerhip, deciion m ing and proft or losses. Membe an both own ant uuers of t sevies of the
muuul. aipson in ownrhp is thrgb a finanl contrb  to acqit noblb   ; these
coatrutiol the ground for the mtu's finncial aonoM. A mubal is democati; evary member
can vot, be deed to uspmneat, adW partipt in the gene  asembly of dt muwaL



-21-                               Anme  I
loan groups along mutualist lines would be considerable; such groups would be potent forces for
grass-roots development. Existing savings and loan groups often have other activities, and it is
expected that savings and loan groups would often also have marketing or production groups with
the same or overlapping membership.
32.   The role of Government is limited to providing an appropriate policy and legal
environment to foster the development of a mutualist movement, and to assisting in obtaining
necessary support from donors during the period necessary to develop the system on a sustainable
basis. A particular role of Government is to ensure that there is complementarty between
projects supporting the mutualist movement.
A. S_v an  OUerye
.MtYA
33.   The proposed project is a pilot undertaking that aims to demonstate ways to expand
decentralized market-oriented financial services for rural areas, based on voluntary mutualist rural
associations. Ihe strategy is to build on the existing movement of farmer associations and to help
it develop into a savings and loan movement on mutualist principles, with support from field-
based organizadons, notably NGOs and extension services. This strategy is designed to foster
self-managed, locay-based rral finance institutions to develop. It draws on experience with
xisting pilot schemes in the country, which have shown the capacity of voluntary associations
to mane credit, to provide guarantees and to mobilize savings.
34. The approach is to work through several different regional schemes in order to test
feasibility in different socio-economic contexts, and to allow different support inhtitons to adapt
their own methodology. The common factors would be the basic philosophy and methodology
applied worldwide in the promotion of savings and loan associations: start with savings; exclude
interest rate subsidies and transfers of concessional financing; do not tolerate any loan
delinquency and default; provide accessible service at the local level; use simple and user-friendly
instruments and procedures; start small with an accent on quality of service; develop by degrees
towards ultimate integration into financial markets; promote member ownership and self-
determinaion; and ensure professional management aided by skilled counsel, education and
training. This approach, tested on a small scale in two NGO-supported projects in the country,
represents a new departure for Government and for IDA, which have hitherto supported
agricultural credit-only schemes through the parastal bank BTM1.
35.   Ihe a'proach in the proposed project accords with the policy recommendations of the
rural finance sector work, and is consistent with the emphasis on building markets and durable
grass-roots insttions which are the major themes of the agricultural strategy work. The
approach is also in line with IDA recommendations for the development of financial markets in
Madagascar, in particular in its promotion of more dynamic mechanisms for the mobilization and
allocation of resources in the rural sector.
1/    see cImj*. TV aim.



-22 -                               AnMex 
Objectives
36.   Within this overall strategy, the project's objectives are to:
develop farmers' savings and loan associations within the overall financial
system, without a priori specialization or segmentation and founded on a culture
of bottom-up initiatives;
without subsidizing credit or providing credit lines, support training and technical
assistance to such associations until an autonomous savings and loan movement
can gather momentum;
promote the development of market-based, competitive Institutions. There is no
targeting of or support to any particular institution or bank;
work through schemes in high priority areas, and so tap potential differendy in
different parts of a heterogeneous society and economy; and
address the legal and regulatory issues involved in the development of a savings
and loan movement.
37.   The project would therefore support Government's decision to seek to establish an
appropriate legal framework for SLAs (para. 67) and to implement its rural financial development
policy. Government has prepared a Rural Financial Development Policy Statement, embodied
in a letter received by IDA, which incorporates the following features: (a) the principle of non-
iterference by Government in the activities of the savings and loan movement; (b) allowing the
SLAs to -et their interest rates on savings and credit, and to maintain appropriate interest margins
between their resources and their investments in both deposit or credit operations to ensure a
viable development; (c) the need for promoting women participation in the grass-roots SLAs; and
(d) the freedom for the SLAs to do business with the financial institution of their choice.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations on these features of the Rural Financial Development
Policy Statement.
38.   The project would further support a significant reorientation of Government policy and
practice, away from reliance on subsidized lines of rural credit passed through a monopoly
parastatal. It would emphasize savings mobilization as a means of developing autonomous grass-
roots savings and loan associations. Indications from existing NGO projects are that a saving-first
approach in developing rural finance is both feasible and superior to other types of programs
which have already been tried.
39.   As this is a pilot operation, it is essentia, to set objectives by which success or failure can
be judged. At the same time, caution has to be exercised, since the fundamentl project objectve
is to develop a methodology and thereby to promote development of institutions rather than just
to acquire a number of adherents or a volume of deposits and loans. Ihe qJantitative targets are
therefore to be treated as guides, and to be matched with the qualitative criteria. With this
caveat, the criteria to be applied are expected to include: (a) methodological criteria (whether
the approach selected to create and train SLAs has been successful, to be measured by their
sustainability; whether the institutions created have worked satisfactorily and whether adaptation
was needed; whether operational manas have been produced and are effectively used); and (b)



- 23 -                              nex I
performance criteria (whether the scheme achieved its specific numerical objectives-asociatlons,
members, savings generated, financial controls; whether work has been done within the budget
and timetable proposed).
B. Proect Deipti
40.   The proposed project is an institution building operation on a pilot scale. It provides
tecical assistance in order to promote rural groups to develop into savings and loan associations
(SLAs), and to eventually federate and to make links with formal flnancial institutions. The
initial emphasis would be on encouraging savings within a group that could then lead to credit
activities within the group as well. All forms of savings including savings in kind such as the
village grain banks would be tested and encouraged. There would be no on4lending of IDA
funds. The project which would be implemented over a four year period would consist of the
following components: (a) savings and loan promotion, consisting of technical assistance
contracts with specialized NGOs to establish SLAs through specific savings and loan schemes,
and develop training programs in rural finance for local NGOs and Malagasy personnel; (b)
project management, and monitoring and evaluation, by ADMMEC, established as a national
non-government association which would coordinate overall project activities, moior
performance of technical assistance consultants, and evaluate project impact; and (c) provision
of basic training and entrepreneurship training for microenterprises in rural areas.
Savings and Loan 
41.   This component would comprise savings and loan promotion schemes in new pilot areas
and the extension of existing experiences in promoting SLAs, and training of local NGOs engaged
in rural finance. In view of the limited experience, (presently involving a couple of NGOs, para
18) and the newness of their activities in organizing SLAs (started about two years ago), the
project would utilize two intrnational NGOs (World Council of Credit Unions-WOCCU; and
Socidt6 de D6veloppement International Desjardins-SDID) well versed in the establishment and
operation of financl cooperatives worldwide. Training programs would be developed as
proposed by WOCCU and SDID for local NGOs and Malagasy personnel to allow them take over
the savings and loan scheme implementation after a maximum period of three years. Ihe
implementation of several schemes simultaneously in different regions would allow the
decentralization and recognition of regional differences that is required in the heterogeneous
situation of Madagascar. The employment of different organizations would also bring
competition in terms of innovation and comparison of performance. Appointment of these
organizations for implementing the savings and loan schemes would be a codition of Crei
42.   During the project period, schemes would be launched in at least three areas of
Madagascar, in addition to the Vakinankaratra and Marovoay where pilot schemes are already
in operation (para 18). The pilot areas were selected on the basis of the following criteria: (1)
economic potential, notably liquidity and investment profitability and access to markets; (2) social
potential, in terms of cooperative tradition; and (3) institutional base, particularly the existence
of farmer associations and support organizations. They include the regions of Antalaha,
Toamasina/oewariva, Fianarantsoa, and Lac Aloatra. These areas show particular promise for
the development of the savings and loan movement; allow some of the major socio-economic
regions to be covered, and are expected to provide a critical mass of experience adequate to
develop methodologies which over time would help promote a regional and, ultimately, national



-24 -                             AMImeI
savings and loan movement. Selection of pilot areas for establishing SLAs would be agreed upon
by Government and MDA and subject to critia satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were obtained
to this effect at negotiadons.
43.   Both SDID, the development institute of the Canadian national savings and loan
movement, and WOCCU, the international trade association of savings and credit cooperatives
with Headquarters in Wisconsin, USA, have a long-standing reputation in the promotion of
savings and loan movements in developing countries. The execution of the contract wh SD)ID
for the first year corresponding to the pre-project period has started under PPF financing. Other
compete technical organizations may be selected during the first two years of the project and
are expected to start work before the end of the second year of the project. Summary of detailed
proposals for SDII) and WOCCU's respective assignments submitted to Govenment are available
in the project file.
44.   As execution of the schemes would be carried out by several different organizations, there
would be differences of structure and approach in each scheme, within the overall objectives and
methodology used worldwide to promote savings and loan associations (see para. 34). In general,
services to be provided by these consultants would include: feasibility studies to identify specific
locations within the region selected; identification of target populations to include individual
women or women groups; education and training in the savings and loan concept; support for the
creation of SLAs, including provision of management and accounting tools and safes; and
development of savings and loan programs, in collaboration with local institutions and personnel.
The specific approaches proposed by WOCCU and SDID are available in the project file.
45. WOCCU would promote and develop a network of mutual savings and loans associations
(SLAs), each at the level of village or group of villages in one region and five SLAs regrouping
a total of 500 to 1,000 members would be established every year over a three-year period. This
network of SLAs would in turn contribute to spreading the movement to neighboring regions,
laying the foundation for a union/federation of SLAs consisting of financial institutions that are
autonomots and self-managing. Specific services to be provided by WOCCU would include
training in themes related to SLAs and group inWiation, identifying villages and farmer groups
to form SLAs, training of group members in charge of accounting and management, designing
and preparing financial statements and manuals in French and Malagasy, preparing administrative
records, setting up an information system, ensuring equipment required is made available,
evaluating each year's activities and planning those for the following year, and undertaking an
evaluation of groups already established and in operation.
46.   WOCCU's team would include two specialists versed in savings and loan promotion-one
of whom would be the WOCCU's Scheme Manager. The Scheme Manager specialized in
promotion, training and management of SLAs would also hire, train and supervise a team of
Malagasy nationals who would be responsible for consciousness-raising and train 'promotion
agents". The team would visit selected villages and hold meetings for the purposes of
information dissemination regarding SLAs and on the principles govering their organization,
operation and supervision. In particular, the agents would explain to the inhabitants the
advantages of actively participating in SLAs in order to raise their standard of living. With the
assistance of the inhabitants, WOCCU would identify village representatives who would receive
more advanced training, which they would then pass on to the other villagers. The team would
assist the local communities in establishing, registering and operating their SLAs. WOCCU's
detailed proposas are available in the project file.



25-                               Annex 1
47. The SDID's Proposal is for the establishment of a network of mutual SLAs in the region
of Toamasina/Fenoariva. Ihis region was seected on the basis of the findings of feasibility
studies already carried out to decide on specific locations to be covered. During the first year,
SDID would concentrate on identifying the best strategy for establishing SLAs within the selected
region, identify target groups with the socio-economic profile suitable to forming SLAs, carry
out its promotion campaign with selected groups on basic objectives and methods, establish
savings groups, conduct member education ad training of elected officers, and supervise and
guide development. Major features of their assigmnent would include the analysis of the socio-
economic characteristics of the region, identification and training of local NGOs involved in
savings and loan activities for collaboration and training of Malagasy personnel in SLA
promotion. SDID's team for the Implementation of its scheme would include two experienced
technical assistance specialists in promoting SLAs, with project management experience, and in
each of the districts selected, there would be two Malagasy community development specialists
experienced in the dissemintion and extension of rural and economic messages, familiar with the
problems involved in the region. SDID has proposed to finance the cost of one of their technical
assistant specialists. SDID's detailed proposal is available in the pro'ect file.
48.   The major costs associated with the WOCCU and SDID schemes would be: technical
assistance and personnel costs for scheme management and implementation; vehicles and
associated operating costs; and preparation and provision of the management and accounting tools
and safes. Total costs including contingencies based on current proposals would amount to
USS1.9 million over the project period.
49.   Qer Schemes. Support would be provided for the expansion of the savings and loan
promotion schemes undertaken by two NGOs engaged in similar activities in the country, i.e.,
TSIMOKA/FERT in the Vakinankatra region and CIIDR in Marovoay. The principles being
applied by these NGOs in promoting SLAs are consistent with the overall approach of the project.
Based on their experience which is achieving good results by using member savings in SLAs,
they are keen to furiher expand their outreach in four neighboring locales, and seek support to
meet their incremental costs of local expenditures to be covered under the project. A provision
of about US$36,000 per year has been made for each of such expansions. Provision has also
been made for US$36,000 per year totalling US$108,000 for other local NGO involvement in
the project by the second year of implementation. Total costs including contingencies for this
sub-component amount to US$786,000 for the project period.
50.   j     g. Rural finance training programs for local NGOs would be developed. An
anua program  for training local NGOs and staff in rural finance would be prepared by the
Association de Dhveloppement do Mouvement Mutualiste d'Epargne et de Credit (ADM. -RC)
and reviewed by IDA. Total training amounts to US$477,000, of which a maxinum of
US$145,000 would be available for visits to similar projects in African countries.
SLeres fat
51.   Non-farming rural enterprises, particularly commercial and artisanal activities, are
becoming more important, especially in areas of high population density in the highlands and on
the eas cost of Madagascar. With demographic pressure, the importance of off-farm activities
is increasing in line with the need for rural people to have non-agricultural income. In addition,
the development of agriculture is creating a demand for goods and services that are produced by
small, labor-intensive rural businesses-goods such as farm implements, clothing, housing, simple



- 26 -                             Ame I
consumkables, am services such as rice milling, rural transport and marketing, and processing of
agricultural produce.
52.   Typically, microenterprises lack access to technical training and access to formal credit.
There are a mnmber of existing organizations providing services to small-scale enterprises.
However, few of them provide services outside of urban areas, or indeed outside the capital of
Ananaivo.  One of the most dynamic and effective organizations is "Entreprendre a
Madagascar", a private agency established with the support of ILO, which provides training and
project preparation services to small-scale and microenterprises and also follow-up of projects
during implemention. "Entreprendre I Madagascar" is beginning to work outside of the capital.
It has recety opened branches in Fianarantsoa and Toamasina and is considering further
decentralization into the rural market towns of Toliary, Antsiranana and Mahajanga. The project
would therefore contract the services of 'Entreprendre I Madagascar", or other competent
specialized firm, to provide basic training and entrepreneurship training to microenterprises
initialy in association with the development of SLAs in the pilot area. To cover all project areas,
a total of 5 manmonths per year of short term consultancy services would be provided.
S=Uprt for rject Manaent and Monisoring and Evaluaion
53.   ADMMEC, a non-government association, would be financed under the project.
Government has agreed that this association would be responsible for the implementation of the
project and the coordination of overall project activities. ADMMEC would monitor the
implementation of the field schemes and aid their development toward a national savings and loan
movement. The organization, role and fimctions of ADMMEC are fiuther defined in paras. 69
and 70.
54.   In additicn to ADMMEC's general manager, three other senior local staff including an
accountant, an ear -cutive with monitoring and evaluation (M&E) experience and an executive with
project management experience to be recruited for the duration of the project would be in charge
of project management and monitoring and evaluation functions. ADMMEC's management
would be also assisted by a rural finance specialist with a savings and loan and project
management experience, who would be recruited for a period up to three years. This specialist
would also have primary responsibility for aspects related to training. He would provide
assistance in the overall management of ADMMEC and project implemeon including an
M&E system, a management information system (MAS), budgetary control, work programs,
progress reporting and internal controls. These aspects as well as project procurement and
disbursement would be incorporated in the specialist's terms of reference as agreed during
negotiations. The cost of local staff and consultant's salaries, office equipment, vehicles and
operating costs, as well as the cost of annual exten  audits of all project activities would be
covered under the project. Total costs including contingencies for the project period would be
US$0.6 million for project management and audit, and US$0.7 million for M&E. Appropriate
staffing of ADMMEC with the above team of specialists satisfactory to IDA at all times and
under terms of employment sadsfactory to IDA would be a  tion of Credit Effectiveness.
C. Proect CS Egimate
55.   Total project cost (mcluding direct taxes of US$0.3 million) is estimated at US$4.6
million (FMG 8.8 billion), of which US$3.1 million or 67% is foreign exchange. Prices are as



- 27 -                             Annex I
of Febniary 1992 adjustod to December 1992, the date of negotiations. Cost estimates do not
include the contributions to the equity of SLAs which would be made by members. They include
activities financed under the PPF (US$465,000), which are being carried out and would be
refinanced under the credit. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of foreign
inflation rates of 4.3% for 1992, 3.8% for 1993, 1.9% for 1994, 2.7% for 1995, 3.4% for 1996,
and 3.6% for 1997, and a local inflation rate of 10%. Physical contingencies of 10% have been
calculated on the cost of equipment. All disbursements by IDA would be net of taxes. The
project cost summary and financing plan are presented in the Memorandum of the President.
D. Procurmn
56.   Madagascar's procurement regulations were a major constraint to the implementaton of
Bank-financed projects because of delays due to repeated reviews by central agencies of
procurement procedures including invitation to bid, evaluation, and contract award. In January
1991, Government issued new regulations on public procurement following a comprehensive
review of the country's procurement aOulations carried out during the Country Implementation
Review (CIR) in Antananarivo in December 1990. A follow-up CIR was made in March 1992.
As a result, Government has decided to use the Bank Sample Bidding Documents to comply with
Bank's guidelines in Bank-financed projects. This is expected to improve substantially
procurement implementation in the country.
57.   Under the project, contracts for consultancy services for implementation of the schemes,
for technica assistance and for studies by local and interational consultants would be let in
accordance with Bank's guidelines for consulting services. In addition to selected organizations
in the pre-project period, inteational advertising would be used to identify other competent
consulting organizations for the establishment of SLAs before any short listing. Procurement of
equipment, material, vehicles and goods would be in accordance with Bank's guidelines.
Equipment, vehicles and goods would be grouped to the extent practicable to increase competition
in bidding, and packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB' in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Items costing US$20,000 equivalent or more including training materials and equipment, totalling
about US$100,000, would be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) for
which they would be adequate competition. Procurement of goods for less than US$20,000 and
up to an aggregate amount of US$160,000, would be done through Local Shopping (LS) with
quotations from at least three reputable firms; such goods include office supplies, fuel and
materials required for operating project vehicles and equ.pment.
58. The proposals for advertising, draft bidding documents, bid evaluation, and award
proposals for all contracts of US$100,000 or more would be subject to review by IDA prior to
their execution. The review process would cover about 80% for goods and 90% of the total
value of contracts financed by IDA. An IDA selective post-review of awarded conacts below
the thresholds would be done for about 1 in 4 contracts for both goods and services.
59.   ADMMEC would be in charge of carrying out project procurement. Procurement
information would be collected and recorded as follows:



- 28 -                                Annex I
(a)    prompt reporting of contract award information by ADMMEC; and
(b)    comprehensive quarterly and annual reports to IDA by ADMMEC, indicating:
(i)    revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total proJect;
(ii)   revised timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)   compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
60.    Assurances on the procurement arrangements were obtained from  Govermnent at
negotiations. Con ts for pre-project consultancy services by local and international consultants
including SDID were financed under the PPF for the project. The planned procurement is
summaized in the Memorandum of the President.
61.    The project procurement and implementation schedule would be as follows:
Prourmet bnpemenxion Schedule
simated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element        Pre-             Project Year            Total          Remarks
Project  -                               Payment
_ _1     2       3       4         _
CrediJt .afr                  x        x                       x
SisntEffec/Close              -
Consuttneies
TA for Savings and Loan                                                        Bank guidelines for
Pramotfon Schemes and ADISEC,    0.4  0.6    1.1      0.6     0.4      3.1    consultants
and Consultancfs es
Ivrles                                0.3                              0.3    Ice
Equipment and Naterfats               0.2             0.1              0.3     tBCSltC
Niscellaneous
Training                              0.1    0.1      0.2     0.1      0.5    Other
Incr. Recurrent Costs                 0.1    0.1      0.1     0.1      0.4    LS/Other
Refinancfng PPF                        x
TOTAL                         0.4     1.3    i.3      1.0     0.6      4.6
IDA-Finaned                  0.4      1.0    1.0      0.7     0.6      3.7
,._,,, - ,m = -
E. Dis ement
62.   Ibe percentage of costs (excluding taxes) to be financed by IDA, and the amount to be
allocated by category of expenditures are presented in the Memorandum of the President. IDA's
financing of incremental recurrent costs would be on a decreasing basis over the project period.
63.   Traditionally most projects in Madagascar suffered from slow disbursements due essely
to lack of counterpart fuds and difficulties for Project Managers in accessing IDA funds deposited
in Special Accounts opened by the Central Bank and operated-by signatories in the Treasury.
Following the April 1992 CIR, agreements were reached with Goverment on: (a) the timely
avaiability of counterpart funds which would be enhanced through a series of measures, including
a better assessment of requirements at the time of annual work program prepartion, the review of



-29-                              Annz..1
the PIP and the payment of monthly tranches of thie annual budget; and O) allowing project managers
to operate Special Accounts to be opened in commercial banks. To ensure that funds for project
implementation are available as and when needed, a Special Account in US dollars would be
established in a local commercW bank acceptable to IDA, wih an initial deposit of US$300,000, to
cover about four months of expenditures, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account after Credit
effectiveness. The Special Account would be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence of
payments made from the account for goods and services required for the project that are eligible for
fiancing under the Credit. Opening of the Special Account in a local commercial bank would be a
condiion of Cred Effetiveness.
64.   Contracts for goods and services amounting to US$20,000 equivalent may be claimed on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documents, including those pertaining to
para. 61, will be retained by ADMMEC and made readily available for review by periodic Bank
supervision missions and external auditors.
65.   All disbursements would be net of taxes. The Credit funds are expected to be disbursed fister
ta the standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in Madagascar, in view of the shorter
implementation period for this pilot operation which in essence is an institution building with time-
bound technical assistance. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
F. Accounting. Financial Reorting. and Auditing Afrangeme
66.   ADMMEC would establish and maintain separate project accounts in accordance with
internationally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. It would provide
interim and annual financial statements to reflect its financial position and that of the project. All
project accounts, the special account and financial statements would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report would specifically include the auditors' opinion on the
Special Account and on the reliability of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as a basis for IDA credit
disbursment. The audit report would also include an assessment as to whether goods and services
have been procured from eligible sources, and an opinion on the proper utilization of goods and
services under the project. The auditors' reports would further include a statement on the adequacy
or overwise of the accounting system and interna controls. The cost of audit would be paid from
the IDA Credit. The audited statements, accounts, auditors' long-form reports and short-form
opinion reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months afer the end of each project
year. Assurances on the above audit requirements were obtained at negotiations.
G. Lea and Regulatory Framework
67.   At present, existing SLAs are allowed to operate without hindrance despite the absence, in
Madagascar, of a specific law for savings and loan associations. However, in order to establish a
legal and regulatory framework that would allow the movement to develop, a draft law for SLAs was
prepared by the Legal Counsel of the Central Bank of Madagascar (BCRM), together with the
interministeal Cellule Technique de Finance Rurale (CTFR). BCRM would be entrusted with
approving that an association be classed as a savings and loan association outside the domain of the
1988 Banking Act. The enactment of the law for SLAs would be a condition gf Credit Effecies.



- 30 -                             A       1
68.   In addition to the above draft law for SLAs, the statutes of ADMMEC and draf standard
statutes for the SLAs were prepared with the help of a consultant and Malagasy lawyers. The statutes
of the SLAs would ensure that SLA members' surplus savings are invested in risk-free financial
istruments and with sound financial instutions. These drafts were reviewed and finized during
negotiaons.
m. PROJECT IMLEWNTATION
A. Qnization and Manageme
69.   Under the project the field level savings and loan promotion would be implemented by
competent consultancy organizations which would report to and be supervised by the Association de
Dvloppement du Mouvement Mutualiste d'Epargne et Credit (ADMMEC). ADMMEC has been
created as a non-government association under Malagasy law and would implement the project and
coordinate overall project execution. Its founder members would be NGOs concerned with the
development of the savings and loan movement in the country, and existing SLAs. To avoid any
conflict of interest, those NGOs represented on the Board of ADMMEC who submit projects for
financing by ADMMEC will not participate in the Board meetings that consider such projects. In
the course of time, new SLAs would be enrolled as additional members. ADMMEC's General
Assembly would grant approvals of new members to be admitted. ADMMEC's membership would
be extended to fture unions and federations of SLAs. The founding members of ADMMEC would
elect a board of directors which would have no Government representation. Government has agreed
to the principle of non-interference in the savings and loan movement, and prepared a Rural Financial
Development Policy Statement which embodies this principle and has been received by IDA.
70.   ADMMEC would be managed by a small technical team of national staff to be hired by open
competition, consisting of a general manager and three high level staff responsible for accounting,
ainistration, monitoring and evaluation, rural finance and traning functions. The team would be
supported by one technical assistance specialist with expertise and experience In rura finance and
project management (para. 54). ADMMEC would have the following responsibilities:
(i) implementing the project and coordinating overall project execution;
(ii) liaising with Government and donors. To this effect it would prepare the annual work
programs, the annual budget, the accounts, progress reports, disbursement applications and
procurement documentation;
(iii) contracting and supervising the execution of savings and loan scheme contracts with the
specialized implementing organizations and with the technical assistance consultants; and
(iv) monitoring project implementation and evaluating its impact.
71.   Funding Afrangements.  Becase ADMMEC would be administering public funds,
Government approval would be required for this. The mechanism for obtaining this approval
without compromising the private statute of ADMMEC would be that Government enter into a
Subsidiary Agreement in which Government would pass on IMA funds to ADMMEC. Government
would exercise control on the use of public funds by ADMMEC through a Steering Committee



18D 23781 R
MADAGASCAR
RURAL FINANCE                                                        K
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                               7 a
0    TOWNS
NAWX~~~~~~K QWfAL                           0 ~~~~~~~~Scmbava
- W (PfOINCE) BOUNDUIES     '2         ∞Ar{ nlabh
w                                                                                  ,6.~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Mozambique
Chonnel                                                                            Indian
Oceon
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. an is fa_ N&1  
(Mozombu 0 (finh
Cr             hannel                 FIANAANTSndian
Ocean
44                   4S                     W
4IW                                                                         U  193
>    I6hotry   }  FIANARANTSOA  /                                 2t~~~~~~~~JANARY1"



