                        PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                            CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                           Report No.: AB4103          Comment [OPCS1]: The report
 Project Name                       Benin: Support to the Emergency Food Security Program                              number is automatically generated by the
                                                                                                                       Internal Documents Unit (IDU) and
 Region                             AFRICA                                                                             should not be changed.

 Sector                             Agriculture (100%)
 Project ID                         P113374
 Borrower(s)                        Government of Benin
 Implementing Agency                Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fishery
                                    Benin

 Environment Category               [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared                  July 22, 2008
 Estimated Date of                  July 25, 2008
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board            September 26, 2008
 Approval


1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement


Country context

Since 2007, food prices have shown an upward trend in Benin. Through a variety of measures
such as removal of tariffs on food imports, price controls and other subsidies, the cost of which
are unsustainable, the Government has sought to contain the increase in food prices which, until
recently, had risen to about 8 percent. Despite their high economic and fiscal cost, these
measures have failed to keep the price increase from accelerating and affecting consumers. The
increase of oil prices by about 25 percent, since July 2008, has further increased the cost of
living and aggravated the situation. The magnitude of the shock, measured by the increase in
prices for food and fertilizer, is alarming. The aggregate import costs for wheat, rice, maize and
fertilizer show a two-fold increase from about US$120 million in 2007 to about US$328 million
in April 20081. Therefore, despite the measures taken by Government since November 2007, the
country, particularly in main cities, has been grappling with a social crisis. Over four million
people (half of the total population) are estimated to be severely affected.

Benin's main cereal staples (rice and maize), consumed in cities and peri-urban areas, are in
short supply and the situation is getting worse. From 2006 to 2007, the production of these cereal
crops decreased by about nine percent and 14 percent, respectively2. The reduced production is
attributed to the lack of adequate delivery mechanisms to ensure the provision of certified seeds,
fertilizer and other agricultural goods and services needed by producers and rural enterprises.
Further compounding the situation, the overall institutional environment for the agricultural



1According to a spreadsheet with estimates of the import costs for rice, maize, wheat and fertilizers using FAO and
COMTRADE data, World Bank, June 2008.
2According to a GTZ report on the food crisis in Benin, published in June 2008.

sector does not receive adequate Government support and needs to be strengthened. In 2008,
only 5.1 percent of the public expenditures are allocated to the sector.

Government response

Since November 2007, the Government has taken some measures to limit the impact of
increasing prices on the consumers. These include: (i) price control mechanisms for some
specific food products; (ii) reduction of customs duties on specific products; (iii) authorizing the
National Agency for Food Security (NAFS) to acquire a buffer stock and sell grains at affordable
prices to the poor. The total cost of the relinguished taxes and customs revenues is estimated at
about US$236 million for the first six months of 2008 - the equivalent of nine percent of the
national annual budget. This estimate does not include other measures, such as keeping constant
the domestic petroleum prices `at the pump' through significant subsidies. In July 2008, in spite
of the looming social crisis, the Government was obliged to authorize an increase of 20 percent
on the prices of the petroleum products.
In early 2008, the Government launched the Emergency Food Security Program (EFSP)3 aimed
at enhancing domestic food (cereals, roots and tubers, animal and dairy products, fish)
production in the short- and medium- terms. A Temporary Working Group (TWG)4 was
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, and Fisheries to implement the EFSP. With
regard to rice and maize, the objective of the EFSP is to improve the food balance through the
production of an additional 42,000 tons of rice and 45,000 tons of maize in 2008, mainly by
supporting small farming enterprises in the main river valleys where water is still available
during most of the dry season. The estimated costs are about US$145 million. In addition, the
Government's subsidy to the NASF between November 2007 and July 2008 cost more than
US$3.0 million.

In April 2008, the Government sent a request to its technical and financial partners to support its
efforts. This EFSSP is the first concrete response with regard to enhancing domestic food
production. It will support subsidy of fertilizer, considered as a major priority by the
Government, for enhancing rice and maize production. Other donor agencies expressed their
commitment and are preparing complementary responses to support the emergency delivery of
certified seeds and other priority agricultural goods and services. According PUASA-EFSP, the
Government has already secured sufficient quantities of seeds for the next season.

Rational for Bank involvement and strategy

The Bank' strategy for this emergency project consists of supporting ongoing efforts by the
Government of Benin to respond to the increase in food prices by mitigating its short-term
impact and stimulating supply response in its main food sectors. It centers around the following
activities:

(a)     In the short-term, provide emergency support for expanded fertilizer use for rice and
maize to increase domestic food production, and therefore mitigate the impact of food price
increases.

In the medium-term, support the elaboration of a mechanism for the sustainable delivery of
agricultural inputs (fertilizer and certified seeds) to food crop farmers.


3Programme d'Urgence d'Appui à la Sécurité Alimentaire (PUASA)
4Groupe de Travail Intérimaire du PUASA

2. Proposed objective(s)

The project objective is to increase domestic production of maize and rice, in order to mitigate
the short-term impact of rising food prices on households and to expand food crop farmers'
access to agricultural inputs in the medium- and long-terms.

The project will have two components:

         Component 1: Provision of fertilizer to enhance domestic food production in the
         short-term (US$8.2 million) This component aims to stimulate the crop supply response
         within the next two years. It will finance procurement, transport, and storage services for
         the delivery of 8,500 tons of fertilizer5 to about 50,000 producers of rice (1,250 tons) and
         maize (7,250 tons), in 2009. This support will cover about 54,000 hectares of cereal crops
         (5,660 hectares of rice and 48,340 hectares of maize), and generate an additional
         production of about 60,000 tons of cereals (6,000 tons of rice and 54,000 tons of maize).
         A total amount of US$8.2 million will be utilized in this operation. About 60 percent of
         this amount (US$4.8 million) should be recovered by the Government, and could be used
         in 2010, for the provision of 5,100 tons of fertilizers to about 30,000 producers. This
         activity could generate an additional 36,000 tons of cereals from 32,400 hectares.

         Component 2: Support to Project Management Unit (PMU) and design of new
         institutional mechanisms for the delivery of inputs to food crop farmers (US$0.5
         million) Under this component, the project aims to strengthen the management and
         operational capacity of the TWG, which has been established by the GOB to coordinate
         its response to the food price emergency. The Grant will finance consultant services,
         training, acquisition of equipment and office supplies, and other costs to provide
         institutional support to the TWG and transform it into an effective PMU for this Grant6.
         This will include: (i) strengthening monitoring activities and (ii) building capacity for
         procurement and financial management.

         This component will also help the country design the innovative institutional (market-
         based) mechanisms required to ensure the delivery of fertilizer, certified seeds, and other
         agricultural goods and services to producers. This will include (i) a review of the current
         emergency delivery mechanism, including the management of the fertilizer recovery
         funds and (ii) examples of good practices in the region.




5Specifications: NPKSB14-23-14-5-1 (about 50% of total volume); NPKS15-15-15-4 (about 25% of total volume);
and urea 45%N (about 25% of total volume).
6It is agreed that the Minister of Agriculture will officially establish the TWG as the Grant's Project Management
Unit.

3. Safeguard policies that might apply

Applicable Safeguard Policies                      Yes  No    TBD

Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)              X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                            X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                     X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                          X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                            X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                          X
Involuntary Resettlement (O/BP 4.12)                     X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                              X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)         X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                  X


4. Tentative financing

Source:                                                        ($m.)
Borrower                                                         0
Special Financing                                                9
                                                        Total    9

5. Contact point

Contact: Alain F. Onibon
Title: Agricultural Economist
Tel: (229) 21 305 857
Email: aonibon@worlbank.org

