                        PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                           APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                           Report No.: AB4131
 Project Name                       Benin: Support to the Emergency Food Security Program
 Region                             AFRICA
 Sector                             Crops (100%)
 Project ID                         P113374
 Borrower(s)                        REPUBLIC OF BENIN
 Implementing Agency                Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fishery
                                    Benin

                                    Government of Benin
 Environment Category               [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared                  September 3, 2008
 Date of Appraisal                  August 20, 2008
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval             October 25, 2008

1. Country and Sector Background

Country context

        Since 2007, food prices have shown an upward trend in Benin. Through a variety of
measures such as removal of tariffs on food imports, price controls and other subsidies, the cost
of which are unsustainable, the Government has sought to contain the increase in food prices
which, until recently, had risen to about 8 percent. Despite their high economic and fiscal cost,
these measures have failed to keep the price increase from accelerating and affecting consumers.
The increase of oil prices by about 25 percent, since July 2008, has further increased the cost of
living and aggravated the situation. The magnitude of the shock, measured by the increase in
prices for food and fertilizer, is alarming. The aggregate import costs for wheat, rice, maize and
fertilizer show a two-fold increase from about US$120 million in 2007 to about US$328 million
in April 20081. Therefore, despite the measures taken by Government since November 2007, the
country, particularly in main cities, has been grappling with a social crisis. Over four million
people (half of the total population) are estimated to be severely affected.

        Benin's main cereal staples (rice and maize), consumed in cities and peri-urban areas, are
in short supply and the situation is getting worse. From 2006 to 2007, the production of these
cereal crops decreased by about nine percent and 14 percent, respectively2. The reduced
production is attributed to the lack of adequate delivery mechanisms to ensure the provision of
certified seeds, fertilizer and other agricultural goods and services needed by producers and rural
enterprises. Further compounding the situation, the overall institutional environment for the
agricultural sector does not receive adequate Government support and needs to be strengthened.
In 2008, only 5.1 percent of the public expenditures are allocated to the sector.

2. Objectives

1According to a spreadsheet with estimates of the import costs for rice, maize, wheat and fertilizers using FAO and
COMTRADE data, World Bank, June 2008.
2According to a GTZ report on the food crisis in Benin, published in June 2008.

         The project objective is to increase domestic production of maize and rice, in order to
mitigate the short-term impact of rising food prices on households and to expand food crop
farmers' access to agricultural inputs in the medium- and long-terms.


3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

         The Bank' strategy for this emergency project consists of supporting ongoing efforts by
the Government of Benin to respond to the increase in food prices by mitigating its short-term
impact and stimulating supply response in its main food sectors. It centers around the following
activities:

         (a)       In the short-term, provide emergency support for expanded fertilizer use for rice
and maize to increase domestic food production, and therefore mitigate the impact of food price
increases.

         (b)       In the medium-term, support the elaboration of a mechanism for the sustainable
delivery of agricultural inputs (fertilizer and certified seeds) to food crop farmers.


4. Description

         Component 1: Provision of fertilizer to enhance domestic food production in the
         short-term (US$8.2 million). This component aims to stimulate the crop supply
         response within the next two years. It will finance procurement, transport, and storage
         services for the delivery of 8,500 tons of fertilizer3 to about 50,000 producers of rice
         (1,250 tons) and maize (7,250 tons), in 2009. This support will cover about 54,000
         hectares of cereal crops (5,660 hectares of rice and 48,340 hectares of maize), and
         generate an additional production of about 60,000 tons of cereals (6,000 tons of rice and
         54,000 tons of maize). A total amount of US$8.2 million will be utilized in this operation.
         About 60 percent of this amount (US$4.8 million) should be recovered by the
         Government, and could be used in 2010, for the provision of 5,100 tons of fertilizers to
         about 30,000 producers. This activity could generate an additional 36,000 tons of cereals
         from 32,400 hectares.

         Component 2: Support to Project Management Unit (PMU) and design of new
         institutional mechanisms for the delivery of inputs to food crop farmers (US$0.5
         million).Under this component, the project aims to strengthen the management and
         operational capacity of the TWG, which has been established by the GOB to coordinate
         its response to the food price emergency. The Grant will finance consultant services,
         training, acquisition of equipment and office supplies, and other costs to provide
         institutional support to the TWG and transform it into an effective PMU for this Grant4.



3Specifications: NPKSB14-23-14-5-1 (about 50% of total volume); NPKS15-15-15-4 (about 25% of total volume);
and urea 45%N (about 25% of total volume).
4It is agreed that the Minister of Agriculture will officially establish the TWG as the Grant's Project Management
Unit.

        This will include: (i) strengthening monitoring activities and (ii) building capacity for
        procurement and financial management.

        This component will also help the country design the innovative institutional (market-
        based) mechanisms required to ensure the delivery of fertilizer, certified seeds, and other
        agricultural goods and services to producers. This will include (i) a review of the current
        emergency delivery mechanism, including the management of the fertilizer recovery
        funds and (ii) examples of good practices in the region.


5. Financing

Source:                                                                           ($m.)
Borrower                                                                             0
Special Financing                                                                    9
                                                                      Total          9

6. Implementation

Project implementation will rely upon two entities: the Project Steering Committee (PSC) and
the TWG/PMU.

The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be responsible for overall project oversight. This
committee will be established by inter-departmental order and will be in charge of overseeing the
project at the Government level. It will include representatives from: (i) the Ministry of State,
(ii) the Ministry of Economy and Finance, (iii) the Ministry of Agriculture, (iv) the producer
organizations, and (v) the private agricultural goods and services deliverers. The SC will ensure
the inter-ministerial coordination of the project and will approve annual work plans, annual
budgets, mid-term reviews, and annual assessment reports.

The Project Management Unit (PMU) operating at the technical and operational levels will be
in charge of project implementation, once it has been established by the Grant Recipient. The
PMU will consist of a Project Coordinator, an Agronomist, an Irrigation Specialist, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist, an accountant with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank, in addition to administrative staff. The PMU will be located within the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, and will implement and monitor day-to-day project
activities including procurement, disbursement, financial management and management of the
designated account to be opened in a commercial bank.

The PMU will contract with the fertilizer suppliers and other entities involved in the
implementation of the project, to ensure that effective delivery mechanisms of fertilizer are in
place. In addition, it will make sure that the cost recovery mechanism as described in the project
operational manual is functioning well.

7. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                               Yes                      No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                      [x]                     [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                              [ ]                     [x]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                  [x]                     [ ]
  Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                                   [ ]                     [x]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                      [ ]                     [x]
  Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                            [ ]                     [x]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                       [ ]                     [x]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                [ ]                     [x]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*                                                   [ ]                     [x]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                           [ ]                     [x]


From an environmental and social safeguard standpoint, EFSSP is a Category B project. This
suggests that environmental and social impacts of the project, for the most part, will be minimal,
site-specific and manageable to an acceptable level. This emergency operation triggers two
safeguard policies: The Environmental Assessment Policy (OP 4.01) and the Pest Management
Policy (OP 4.09), predicated on program objectives to increase agricultural production and
productivity with the provision of large quantities of fertilizer to rice and maize producers.

At this stage, due to lack of specifics on program intervention sites and the real environmental
impacts and mitigations measures required, an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) will be the appropriate safeguard instrument. Because the program is
processed under OP 8.00, the ESMF shall be prepared, reviewed, and approved by ASPEN prior
to disclosure at Bank Infoshop and in country, within three months of grant effectiveness. The
ESMF will provide guidelines and procedures for environmental and social screening, designed
to help avoid, mitigate or minimize impacts resulting from unbalanced use of agrochemicals
causing for example, eutrophication in irrigation canals and downstream waterways, and
irrigation- specific impacts, such as water logging, salinization, and water-borne or related
diseases, especially bilharzia. Close attention will be paid to safe storage and handling of
fertilizers, as part of the safeguard review.

The ESMF will include a chapter dealing with Pest and Pesticide Management issues. This
chapter will not be a full-pledged Pest Management Plan (PMP), but a plan, which addresses the
selection, safe use, storage and disposal of pesticides and their package materials in order to
avoid health impacts on farmers and their families and avoid impacts on the environment.
Farmers will be trained in pest and pesticide management issues. One of the PMU staff will be
responsible for the implementation of the ESMF.

The ESMF will also discuss institutional arrangements, with clear roles and responsibilities for
screening program activities, preparing and approving appropriate sub-project safeguard
instruments, and implementing and monitoring required measures. Finally, the ESMF will
devise any capacity strengthening and awareness raising measures deemed necessary for relevant
stakeholder groups. As such, it is both a planning tool and a way to maximize the positive effects
of this operation.

*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas

Contact point

Contact: F. Alain Onibon
Title: Agric. Economist
Tel: 5390+3321 / 229-21-305-857
Fax:
Email: aonibon@worldbank.org
Location: Cotonou, Benin (IBRD)

For more information contact:

The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Email: pic@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop

