                                                 Documentof
                                               The WorldBank


                                         FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                       Report No. 44942-BJ




                            FOOD PRICE CRISIS RESPONSETRUST FUND

                                    EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                        ON A PROPOSEDGRANT

                   UNDER THE GLOBAL FOODCRISIS RESPONSEPROGRAM

                                 INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$9.0MILLION

                                                   TO THE

                                           REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                             FOR A PROPOSED

                 EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY SUPPORT PROJECT (EFSSP)


                                                October 8,2008




Agriculture andRuralDevelopment
CountryDepartmentAFCCI
AfricaRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective July 17,2008)
                                Currency Unit = Franc CFA
                                        1US$ = 415CFAF

                                         FISCALYEAR
                                        July 1to June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB      African Development Bank
AGEFIB    Agence de Financement des Initiatives de Base (Grassroots Initiative Financing
          Agency)
BCEAO     Banque Centraledes Etats de I'Afrique de I'Ouest (Central Bank o f West African
           States)
BOAD      Banque OuestAfricaine deDbveloppement (West AfXcan DevelopmentBank)
C A A      CaisseAutonome d'Amortissement
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CECPA      Centre Communalpour la Promotion Agricole (Local Agricultural Services)
CERPA      CentreRbgional pour la Promotion Agricole (Regional Centre for Agriculture
         I Promotion)                                                                       I
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
COMTRADE  UnitedNations Commodity Trade Statistics Database
CQS        Consultant's Qualification Selection
DA       IDesignated Account
EFSP     I Emergency Food Security Program
EFSSP      Emergency Food Security Support Project
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
FA0       Food and Agriculture Organization o f the United Nations
FBS       Fixed Budget Selection
FDM       Fertilizer Distribution Manual




          Research Institute o f Benin)
ISA       InternationalStandards on Auditing
LCS       Least Cost Selection
L I B     Limited InternationalBiding
MAEP      Ministdre de 1'Agriculture, de 1'Elevage et de la P&he (Ministry of
          Agriculture,Livestock and Fisheries)
MEF       Ministryo fEconomyandFinance
NAFS      National Agency for Food Security
                                                ..
                                                11

                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


      N C B            National Competitive Biding
      ONASA            Oflee National d 'Appui h la Sdcuritd Alimentaire (National Agency for Food
                       Security)
      ONS              Ofice National de Soutienaux Revenus Agricoles (National Agency for Supporting
                       Agricultural Incomes)
      PEFA             Public Expenditure Financial Accountability
      PIM              Project ImplementationManual
      PMU              Project Management Unit
      PSC              Project Steering Committee (PSC)
      PUASA            Programme d 'Urgenee d'Appui b la Skcuritk Alimentaire (Emergency Food
                        Security Program)
      QCBS             Quality and Cost Based Selection
      SBD               Standard BiddingDocuments
      TF               Trust Fund
                           -~
                        ~


      TOR              Terms o f Reference
      TWG              Temporary Working Group




                                           Vice President: Obiageli KatrynEzekwesili
                                         Country Director: Madani M.Tall
                                           Sector Director: Inger Andersen
                                          Sector Manager:     Karen Mcconnell Brooks
                                         Task Team Leader Alain F.Onibon




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                             ...
                                                             ...
                                                             ...

                                   REPUBLIC OFBENIN
                     EmergencyFoodSecuritySupport Project(EFSSP)


                                      Table of Contents


EMERGENCY OPERATION PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET                                          V


A.   Introduction                                                                      1

B.   Country Context, Recovery Strategyand Rationale for ProposedBankEmergency Project 1

C.   Bank Response: The Emergency Food Security Support Project                       3

D.   Appraisal of Project Activities                                                  5

E.   Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan                                   9

F.   Project Risks andMitigatingMeasures                                             11

G.   Terms and Conditions for Project Financing                                      12

Annexes

Annex 1:Detailed Description of Project Components                                   13

Annex 2: Results Framework and MonitoringArrangements                                16

Annex 3: Summaryof Estimated Project Costs                                           18

Annex 4: Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements                             19

Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements                                                     27

Annex 6: Implementation andMonitoringArrangements                                    31

Annex 7: Project Preparationand Appraisal Team Members                               32

Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              33

Annex 9: Country at a Glance                                                         34

Annex 10: Map of Benin                                                               36




                                             iv

                                       Republicof Benin

                           EmergencyFood Security Support Project

               EMERGENCY OPERATION PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET
                                         Africa Region

Date: 10/08/2008                                  TeamLeader: Alain F. Onibon
Country Director: Madani M.Tall                   Sectors: Agriculture (100%)
Sector Director: Inger Andersen                   Themes: Global food crisis response
Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks            Environmental screening category: B
Lending instrument: EmergencyRecovery Loan




Project ID(s): P113374                      Total Amount: US$9.0 million
Proposed terms: Grant (100%)                Expected implementation period: 24 months
Expectedeffectiveness date: October 31,     Expected closing date: December 14,2010
2008
Recipient: Republic ofBenin                 Responsible agency: Ministry o f Agriculture,
                                            Livestock, andFisheries




Borrower
Total IBRD/IDA
Trust Funds                          0.35                  8.65                 9.0
Others
Total                                0.35                  8.65                 9.0

FY                           2009      2010
Total IBRD/IDA
Trust Funds
Annual                       8.8       0.2
Cumulative                   8.8       9.0

                                              V

Does the emergency operationrequire any exceptions from     Yes [ ] No [ X ]
Bankpolicies?
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                 Yes [ 1 No [ 1
Are there any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?  Yes[X] N o [ ]
What safeguard policies are triggered, if any?              EnvironmentalAssessment
                                                            (OP 4.01) andPest
                                                            Management (OP 4.09)




                                                   vi

                                             RepublicofBenin

                              EmergencyFoodSecurity Support Project

A.       Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f a grant under the Global Food Crisis Response
Program (GFRP), which was endorsed by the Board on May 29,2008, and will be financed
out o f the Food Price Crisis Response (FPCR) Trust Fund (TF) in the amount o f US$9.0
million for an "Emergency Food Security Support Project (EFSSP)"' inBenin.
2. The proposed grant will help finance the costs associated with enhancing the production
o f rice and maize, cereals for which the national food balance i s negative. The project will
subsidize emergency operations for the provision o f fertilizer to 50,000 producers o f rice and
maize in 2009. This should result in additional domestic production o f about 60,000 tons o f
cereal (6,000 tons o frice and 54,000 tons o f maize) in2009 (8 percent o f the total production
in 2007). Moreover, the project will support the design of the innovative market based
mechanisms required for the delivery o f inputs to food crops producers in the medium and
long terms.
3. This Bank's support i s one amongst the first contribution by donor agencies to the efforts
o f the Government o fBenin infacing the crisis.

B.       Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for Proposed Bank
         EmergencyProject

B1.      CountryContext

4.       Since 2007, food prices have shown an uptrend in Benin. Through a variety o f
measures such as removal o f tariffs on food imports, price controls and other subsidies, the
cost o f which are unsustainable, the Government has sought to contain the rise in food prices
which, until recently, had risen to about 8 percent. Despite their high economic and fiscal
costs, these measures have failed to keep the price increase from accelerating and affecting
consumers. The increase o f oil prices by about 25 percent since July 2008 has further
increased the rising cost o f living and aggravated the situation. The magnitude o f the shock,
measured by the rise inprices for food and fertilizer, i s alarming. The aggregate import costs
for wheat, rice, maize and fertilizer show a two-fold increase from about US$120 million in
2007 to about US$328 million in April 20082. Therefore, despite the measures taken by
Government since November 2007, the country today is grappling with a social crisis,
particularly in main cities. Over four million people (half o f the total population) are
estimated to be severely affected.
5.       Benin's main cereal staples, rice andmaize, consumed incities and peri-urban areas,
are in short supply and the situation i s getting worse. From 2006 to 2007, the production of
these cereal crops decreased by about 9 percent and 14 percent respectively3. The reduced
production i s due to the lack o f adequate delivery mechanisms to ensure the provision of

'In  French, the project is named ` Projet d'Urgence dilppui ri la Se`curitdAlimentaire'.
 According to a spreadsheet with estimates o f the import costs for rice, maize, wheat, and fertilizers using FA0
and COMTRADE data -World Bank June 2008.
 According to a GTZ report on the food crisis inBenin, published inJune 2008.
                                                       1

certified seeds, fertilizer and other agricultural goods and services needed by producers and
rural enterprises. In addition, the overall institutional environment for the agricultural sector
does not receive adequate Government support and needs to be strengthened.In2008, only
5.1 percent of public expenditure i s allocated to the sector.


B2.        The Government's Recovery Strategy
6.          Since November 2007, the Government has taken measures to limit the impact o f
increasing prices on the consumer. These include: (i)              price control mechanisms for some
specific food products; (ii)reduction o f customs duties on specific products; and (iii)
subsidizing the National Agency for Food Security (NAFS)4 to constitute a buffer stock and
sell grains at an affordable price to the poor. The total cost o f foregone taxes and customs
revenues i s estimated at US$ 236 million for the first six months o f 2008, the equivalent o f
nine percent o f the national annual budget. This estimate does not include other measures,
such as keeping constant the domestic petroleum prices `at the pump' through significant
subsidies. InJuly 2008, in spite o f the looming social crisis, the Government was obliged to
authorize an increase o f 20 percent on the prices o fpetroleum products.
7.         In early 2008, the Government launched the Emergency Food Security Program
(EFSP)' aimed at enhancing domestic food (cereals, roots and tubers, animal and dairy
products, fish) production in the short- and medium- terms. A Temporary Working Group
(TWG)6was appointed by the Minister o f Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries to implement
the EFSP. With regard to rice and maize, the objective o f the EFSP i s to improve the food
balance through the production o f an additional 42,000 tons o f rice and 45,000 tons o f maize
in 2008, mainly by supporting small farming enterprises in the main river valleys where
water is still available during most o f the dry ~eason.~The overall EFSP estimated costs are
about U S 1 4 5 million. In addition, the Government's subsidy to the NAFS between
November 2007 andJuly 2008 cost more thanUS$3 million.


B3.        Rationale for the ProposedEmergency Project
8.         The Government sent a request to its technical and financial partners, to support its
efforts. The EFSSP is the first concrete response with regard to enhancing domestic food
production. It will support subsidy o f fertilizer, considered as a major priority by the
Government, for enhancing rice and maize production. Other donor agencies have expressed
their commitment, and are preparing complementary responses to support the emergency
delivery o f certified seeds and other priority agricultural goods and services. According to
the EFSP, the Government will secure sufficient quantities o f seeds for the next season.
9.         This Bank's response is one amongst the first contribution by donor agencies to the
efforts o f the Government o f Benin in facing the crisis. It should stimulate other donor
agencies' support to the Government's efforts. Moreover, it will help lay down the
groundwork for future Bank agriculture operations envisioned in2009, which should include
activities aimed at promoting food crops commodity chains.


 Oflce National d'Appui a la Skcuritt Alimentaire (ONASA)
 Projet d Vrgenced 'Appui a la Skcuritk Alimentaire (PUASA)
 Groupe de Travail Intkrimaire du PUASA
7The 2008 production figures for rice and maize are estimates. A survey will be conducted inNovember 2008
to c o n f i i the final (actual) production figures.
                                                       2

C.      BankResponse: The EmergencyFoodSecuritySupport Project(EFSSP)


C1.     BriefDescriptionof the Bank's GlobalFoodResponseProgram(GFRP) andthe
FoodPriceCrisisResponseTrust Fund(FPCR TF)

10.     The Bank's strategy for this emergency project consists o f supporting ongoing efforts
by the Government o f Beninto respond to the increase infood prices by mitigating its short-
term impact and stimulating supply response in its main food sectors. This strategy i s hlly
consistent with the Bank's Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP), which includes
support in the following areas: (i)food price policy and market stabilization; (ii)           social
protection actions to ensure food access and minimize the nutritional impact o f the crisis on
the poor and vulnerable; (iii)   enhancing domestic food production and marketing response;
and (iv) implementation support, communications, and monitoring and evaluation. The Food
Price Crisis Response Trust Fund(FPCR TF) will finance this project.
11.     The EFSSP will focus on the following activities:
                 In the short-term, provide emergency support for expanded fertilizer use for
                 maize and rice to increase domestic food production, and therefore mitigate
                 the impact o f food price increases.
                 Support the design o f innovative mechanisms for the sustainable delivery o f
                 agricultural inputs (fertilizers and others) to food crop farmers, inthe medium
                 and long term.


C       Pro,xt DevelopmentObjective
12.     The project development objective is to increase domestic production o f cereal crops
(maize and rice), in order to mitigate the short-term impact o f increasing prices on
households and to expand food crop farmers' access to agricultural inputs inthe medium and
longterm.

C3.     ProjectComponents
13.     The above objective would be achieved through two project components:

        Component 1: Provisionof fertilizer to enhance domestic food productionin the
        short-term (USV3.2 million) This component aims to stimulate the crop supply
        response withinthe next two years. It will finance rocurement, transport, and storage
        services for the delivery o f 8,500 tons o f fertilizer to about 50,000 producers o f rice
                                                               r
        (1,250 tons) and maize (7,250 tons), in 2009. This support will cover about 54,000
        hectares o f cereal crops (5,660 hectares o f rice and 48,340 hectares o f maize), and
        generate an additional production o f about 60,000 tons o f cereals (6,000 tons o f rice
        and 54,000 tons o f maize). A total amount o f US$8.2 million will be utilized in this
        operation. About 60 percent o f this amount (US$4.8 million) should be recovered by
        the Government, and could be used in 2010, for the provision o f 5,100 tons of
        fertilizers to about 30,000 producers. This activity could generate an additional
        36,000 tons o f cereals from 32,400 hectares.

 Specifications: NPKSB14-23-14-5-1 (about 50% oftotal volume); NPKS15-15-15-4 (about 25% oftotal
volume); and urea 45%N (about 25% o f total volume).
                                                    3

         Component 2: Support to Project ManagementUnit (PMU) and design of new
         institutionalmechanisms for the delivery of inputs to food crop farmers (US$0.5
         million). Under this component, the project aims to strengthen the management and
         operational capacity o f the TWG, which has been established by the GOB to
         coordinate its response to the food price emergency. The Grant will finance
         consultant services, training, acquisition o f equipment and office supplies, and other
         costs to provide institutional support to the TWG and transform it into an effective
         PMUfor this Grantg.This will include: (i)            strengtheningmonitoring activities and (ii)
         buildingcapacity for procurement and financialmanagement.
         This component will also help the country design the innovative institutional (market-
         based) mechanisms requiredto ensure the delivery o f fertilizer, certified seeds, and
         other agricultural goods and services to producers. This will include (i)                a review o f
         the current emergency delivery mechanism, including the management of the
         fertilizer recovery fhds and (ii)     examples o f good practices inthe region.


C4.      Eligibilityfor processingunderOP/BP8.00
14.      Consistent with OP/BP 8.00, the activities planned under this project are intended to
support the Government's objective to enhance domestic food crops production in the short-
and medium- term, in order to ensure food security. The project will focus on fertilizer
provision by strengthening the emergency delivery mechanisms in place (to ensure
transparency and efficiency) and will help design the structural delivery mechanisms
required. It will contribute in generating additional cereal stocks to supply the market and
consequently, produce positive impact on the rural population's livelihood and on the urban
consumers' access to food.
15.      The success o f the project-financed activities (emergency provision o f fertilizer) and
its impact on the beneficiaries within the timeframe depends on the use o f flexible and
acceleratedprocedures as allowed under OP/BP 8.00, particularly inthe processing o fproject
preparation, safeguards compliance, procurement, and disbursement arrangements. Without
such provision, the project's inputs would not be mobilized quickly enough to contribute to
the urgent needs.

C5.      Consistencywith the CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS)
16.      This project's activities are closely aligned with the existing Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS)'s pillar designed to promote employment or income-generating opportunities
for the poor and strengthentheir capacity to participate in decision making and production
processes.
17.      They are also aligned with the CAS under preparation. The new CAS consists o f
three strategic objectives: (i)    accelerating private sector-led growth; (ii)         improving access to
basic services and ensuring greater efficiency o f public expenditures; and (iii)                   promoting
better governance and strengthening institutional capacities. With regard to these strategic
objectives, the Bank Group would place a very strong emphasis on reengaging with and
supporting the private sector and enterprise development, agricultural diversification as well
as the development o f growth inducing infrastructure. A future agricultural diversification
project i s envisaged to support promising commodity chains from production to

9Itis agreedthat the Minister o fAgriculture will officially establish the TWG as the Grant's Project
Management Unit.
                                                        4

transformatiordexport, That operation would also be a vehicle for responding to the food
price increases.
C6.     Expectedoutcomes
18.     The provision o f 8,500 tons o f fertilizer to about 50,000 rice and maize producers is
expected to generate an additional supply o f about 60,000 tons o f cereals (rice and maize) in
2009. This i s expected to: (i) the pressure on the country's food import bill; (ii)
                               reduce                                                      slow
down the rise indomestic prices; (iii)  reduce and eventually eliminate the negative impact in
poor households; (iv) eliminate the needfor large subsidies and their budgetaryimplications;
and (v) raise income o fparticipating farmingcommunities.
19.     The following would be the key outcomes of this project (described in Annex 2:
ResultsFramework):

        0   Increase inrice and maize production

            New agricultural inputs delivery institutionalmechanisms designed.

D.      Appraisalof ProjectActivities

D1.     Technical
20.     Addressing the lack o f delivery systems for agricultural inputs and equipment i s a key
issue inboosting food crop production in Benin. Without access to fertilizer, certified seeds
and other agricultural goods and services, agriculture production remains essentially at
subsistence level, with low technology and little marketable surplus. The challenge i s first to
strengthen the emergency mechanisms to ensure the short-term distribution o f these goods
and services (with priority to fertilizer). These emergency fertilizer delivery mechanisms are
built on piloting a concept described by the Ministryof Agriculture inBenin. Moreover, the
crop packages proposed are based on standards, well accepted technical packages in Benin,
which are consistent with global good practice. Then, the project will support the setting-up
o fmedium- and long-term sustainable delivery mechanisms.

D2.     Economic and financial
21.     Economic and financial analysis o f this emergency operationhas not been carried out
given the short preparation period. However, according to the EFSP TWG's estimates, the
economic impact o f increased provision o f fertilizer should be positive and significant, with
an increase o f rice and maize yields by about 100% per hectare.
22.     With regard to financial aspects, there is a need to set-up sustainable financial
mechanisms to promote the producers' access to agricultural inputs credit. The project will
help the country to address these medium- and long-term financial issues, by developing
delivery mechanisms adapted to Benin.




                                                 5

D3.       Institutional
23.       The TWG is currently managing the EFSP program. The TWG team members'
capacities have been found to be satisfactory, with shortcomings in financial management.
The Minister o f Agriculture agreed to convert officially the TWG into a P M U for this
project. It was also agreed that an accountant would be appointed, as part o f the conversion
o f the TWG into a PMU. It was also agreed that AGEFIB (Agencepour le Financement des
Intiatives de Base) would be providing financial management assistance to the TWG".
AGEFIB has a strong experience in Bank financed project implementation. The agency is
currently implementing the Community Driven Development Project (PO81484) and the
Second Multi Sector HIV/AIDS Control Project (P096056).
24.       The capacities of CERPA (Centre Rkgional pour la Promotion Agricole)"                       and
CECPA (Centre Communal pour la Promotion Agricole)12 have been judged to be
satisfactory. Their roles and responsibilities in the project implementation are described in
Annex 1.
25.       Inthe cotton sub-sector, the Beninprivate sector has demonstrated duringthe last five
years its capacity to carry out importation, transport, storage, and distribution o f fertilizer.
The emergency operation o f fertilizer provision for food crops will buildon this experience.
26.       Two key institutional development issues will be addressed under this operation: (i)
strengthening the capacity o f the Government through the PMU to manage the emergency
operation and (ii)   helping the country introduce effective mechanisms for the procurement
and delivery o f fertilizers andcertified seeds to food crop farmers.

D4.       Financialassessment
27.       The OverallInherentRisk o f the public financial management system in Benin was
"High" and recently downgraded to "Substantial". The Government's policy framework for
budget management - Gestion Budgktaire Axke sur les Rksultats (GBAR) i s currently based
on the 2005 Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)13 and the recent Public
Expenditure Financial Accountability (PEFA)I4 assessment. It i s noted that significant
progress has been made inimproving public expenditure management, and highlightedrisks
remain inthe following areas:
          (i)Poor accountingrecordingandreportingsystem: public accounts are generally
          incomplete and delayed;
          (ii)Control mechanism: ex-postcontrols were uncoordinated, andincludeseveral
          unitsworking independently, external audit delayed; and
          (iii) intheuseof expensesfollowingexceptionalprocedures.
              Surge
28.       Since May 2006, the Government has taken strong measures to address these issues.
A decree regulating internal audit has beenadopted and the use o f the exceptional procedure
i s restricted. The issue of the delay in production o f accounts is being resolved by the
recruitment of additional staff and the deployment o f the accounting software to sub-national
level to be completed by the end o f 2008. On the external audit, discussion i s in progress

10 See SectionD4.
11 CERPA (CentreRkgional de Promotion Agricole) is the regionalagency o f the Ministry of Agriculture,
LivestockandFisheries.
   The CECPA (Centre Communal dePromotion Agricole) are the localunits o fthe CERPA.
l3 This is anupdatedversionof the 2001 CFAA.
l4 The recent PEFA has beencompletedinNovember2007.
                                                   6

with the GOB to strengthen the capacity o fthe Chamber o fAccount. An action planhasbeen
prepared and supported by donors.
29.      The fiduciary risks for this project are rated Substantialbecause the TWG does not:
(i) qualifiedexperiencedfinancialmanagement/accountingstaff;(ii) anyprevious
    have                                                                       have
experience inthe World Bank Financial Management procedures; and (iii)         have any financial
and accounting system including an implementatiodfinancial manual. Currently, financial
and accounting management o f financial resources provided by the Government are handled
by ONS (Ofice National de Soutien aux RevenusAgricoles)". However, the first component
o f the project, which represents more than 90 percent o f the total amount o f the grant, will
consist o f a single contract for the procurement o f fertilizer, which will be disbursed directly
by the Bank. Moreover, not later than 45 days after project effectiveness, the Government
will submit to the Bank, the `Fertilizer Distribution Manual' (FDM), an operational manual
describing the procedures that will govern the fertilizer delivery operation.
30.      The conclusion o f the FM assessment i s that the overall risk rating of the
implementingunitis SubstantialandFMarrangements do not satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements.Therefore, the following FM arrangements have been proposed to mitigate the
risk and satisfythe Bank's requirement:

     0   An accountant will be appointed by no later than 2ldays following the effectiveness
         o f the project, to handle the project's FM activities throughout the life o f the project,
         specifically the management o f the funds resulting from the fertilizer credit recovery
         and/or provided by other donors;
     0   The accounting and FM activities will be handled with the support o f the AGEFIB
         (Agence de Financement des Initiatives de Base) as fiduciary agency, with a strong
         experience inBank Financed project implementation.
     0   The `Fertilizer Distribution Manual' (FDM), describing the procedures that will
         govern the fertilizer delivery operation, will be prepared by the PMU.
31,      The risk mitigation measures indicated when implemented fully and successfully are
expected to reduce the overall risk rating to Moderate. This process will be monitored
closely.

D.5      Environmentalandsocial aspects
32.      From an environmental and social safeguard standpoint, EFSSP is a Category B
project. This suggests that environmental and social impacts o f the project, for the most part,
will be minimal, site-specific and manageable to an acceptable level. This emergency
operation triggers two safeguard policies: The Environmental Assessment Policy (OP 4.01)
and the Pest Management Policy (OP 4.09), predicated on program objectives to increase
agricultural production and productivity with the provision o f large quantities o f fertilizer to
rice and maize producers.
33.      At this stage, due to lack of specifics on program intervention sites and the real
environmental impacts and mitigations measures required, an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) will be the appropriate safeguard instrument. Because the
program i s processed under OP 8.00, the ESMF shall be prepared, reviewed, and approved
by ASPEN prior to disclosure at Bank Infoshop and incountry, within three months of grant
effectiveness, The ESMF will provide guidelines and procedures for environmental and
social screening, designed to help avoid, mitigate or minimize impacts resulting from

I SNational Agency for Supporting the Agricultural Incomes
                                                      7

unbalanced use o f agrochemicals causing for example, eutrophication inirrigation canals and
downstream waterways, and irrigation- specific impacts, such as water logging, salinization,
and water-borne or related diseases, especially bilharzia. Close attention will be paid to safe
storage and handlingo f fertilizers, as part o fthe safeguard review.
34.      The ESMF will include a chapter dealing with Pest andPesticide Management issues.
This chapter will not be a hll-pledged Pest Management Plan (PMP), but a plan, which
addresses the selection, safe use, storage and disposal o f pesticides and their package
materials in order to avoid health impacts on farmers and their families and avoid impacts on
the environment. Farmers will be trained inpest andpesticide management issues. One of the
PMU staffwill beresponsible for the implementationo fthe ESMF.
35.      The ESMF will also discuss institutional arrangements, with clear roles and
responsibilities for screening program activities, preparing and approving appropriate sub-
project safeguard instruments, and implementing and monitoring required measures. Finally,
the ESMF will devise any capacity strengthening and awareness raising measures deemed
necessary for relevant stakeholder groups. As such, it i s both a planning tool and a way to
maximize the positive effects o f this operation.


 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                  I  Yes      I    N o

 Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.01)                              X
*NaturalHabitats (OPIRP 4.04)
                     (OP/BP                                                     X
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                           X
                                                                   X
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                  X
                                                              ~~




 IndigenousPeodes (OP/BP 4.10)                                                  X
 Involuntary Resettlement (OBP 4.12)                                            X
 Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                    X
 Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                               X
 Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP 7.60)                                          X

D6.       Lessons from experience
36.      Bank experience to date with emergency response operations has underscored the
need to approach the immediate challenge with realism and simplicity. As such, the proposed
project relies on strengthening the emergency mechanisms inplace for fertilizer provision to
producers and on simplified procurement procedures. By collaborating with the delivery
agencies o f the Ministry o f Agriculture (that are knowledgeable in extension services) and
with the other donor agencies that expressed their will to contribute to the emergency
operations (through existingor new operations16), the project will be able to provide concrete
results inthe short-term.
37.      The Bank experience in the cotton sub-sector shows the capacity o f Benin actors
(producer organizations and private operators) to conduct successfully collective actions
intended at setting-up the needed market based agricultural inputs delivery structural


l6InternationalFundfor Agriculture Development (IFAD)gave a financial contributionthrough anexisting
project. The African Development Bank (AfDB)andBanque OuestAJiicaine de Dkveloppernent (BOAD) are in
the processofpreparing aproject.
                                                  8

mechanisms. This project will support that process, in cooperation with Government and its
other internal and external technical and financial partners.

E.      ImplementationArrangements andFinancingPlan

E.1     Implementationarrangements


38.     Project implementation will rely upon two entities: the Project Steering Committee
(PSC) and the TWGPMU.
39.     The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be responsible for overall project
oversight. This committee will be established by inter-departmental order and will be in
charge of overseeing the project at the Government level. It will include representatives
from: (i) the Ministryo f State, (ii) Ministryo f Economy andFinance, (iii) Ministryo f
                                     the                                        the
Agriculture, (iv) the producer organizations, and (v) the private agricultural goods and
services deliverers. The SC will ensure the inter-ministerial coordination o f the project and
will approve annual work plans, annual budgets, mid-term reviews, and annual assessment
reports.
40.     The Project Management Unit (PMU) operating at the technical and operational
levels, will be in charge o f project implementation, once it has been established by the Grant
Recipient. The P M U will consist o f a Project Coordinator, an Agronomist, an Irrigation
Specialist, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, an accountant with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank, in addition to administrative staff, The PMU will be
located within the Ministry o f Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, and will implement and
monitor day-to-day project activities including procurement, disbursement, financial
management andmanagement o fthe designated account to be opened ina commercial bank.
41.     Inconformity with the procedures described inAnnex 5, the PMUwill contract with
the fertilizer suppliers and other entities involved in the implementation o f the project, to
ensure that effective delivery mechanisms o f fertilizer are inplace. In addition, it will make
sure that the cost recovery mechanism as described in the project operational manual i s
hnctioningwell.
42.     The project closing date is December 15, 2010 with the following implementation
schedule:

            a. Establishment o f the PMU (including the appointment o f an accountant) and
                Project Steering Committee: not later than 21 calendar days after project
                effectiveness.

            b. Submission of the `Fertilizer Distribution Manual' (FDM) describing the
                procedures that will govern the fertilizer delivery operation, to the Bank: not
                later than45 calendar days after project effectiveness.

            c. MoUs between the P M U and CERPA and NAFS (ONASA)17respectively:
                not later than 30 calendar days after project effectiveness.




"SeetherespectiverolesofthesetwoagenciesinAnnex 1.
                                                9

              d. Contracts for fertilizer: not later than 60 calendar days after project
                 effectiveness.

              e. Environmental and Social Management Framework that includes Pest
                 Management: not later than 3 months after project effectiveness.

              f. Deliveryoffertilizer to producers completed: not later thanMarch31,2009.

              g. Adoption o f the proposal o f market based mechanisms, designed for the
                 delivery o f agricultural inputs (fertilizer, certified seeds): not later than 240
                 calendar days, after project effectiveness.

              h. Proposal of the Government on the use of the incomes resulting from the
                 fertilizer credits recovery: not later thanDecember 30,2009.

              i.ResponseoftheBanktotheGovernment, onitsproposalontheuseofthe
                 incomes resulting from the fertilizer credits recovery: not later than January
                 15, 2010.

E.2              Project costs
43.       Summary costs per category and component are presented in the tables below and
detailed inAnnex 3.


    Categoryof Expenditures                Amount of the Grant           Percentageof Expenditures
                                       Allocated(expressedinUSD)                to beFinanced
                                                                               (excludingTaxes)
(1) Goods and consultants'
services, including Training and                     9,000,000                       100%
audits, and OperatingCosts
TOTAL AMOUNT                                         9,000,000


          Detailed Categor of               Grant (USD
             Expenditures   li                millions)             Local             Foreign

1. Goods andEquipment                             0.04                0                 0.04
2. ConsultingServices, Training                   0.38               0.22               0.16
3. Fertilizers                                    8.20                0                 8.20
4. Operatingcosts                                 0.08               0.08                0
5. Unallocated                                    0.30               0.05               0.25

Total                                             9.00               0.35               8.65




''Detailedcategoryhas   beenprovidedfor a better follow-upduringimplementation.
                                                     10

                                            I Grant(USD
                                                millions)     I         Local           Foreign
C1. Provision of fertilizer to enhance
domestic food production on the short term         8.20                     0            8.2
C2. Support to Project Management Unit
(PMU) and designo f new institutional
mechanisms for the delivery o f inputsto           0.50                  0.30            0.20
food crou farmers
Unallocated                                        0.30                  0.05            0.25

Total                                               9.0                   0.35           8.65



E.3     Financialmanagementandprocurementarrangements
44.     The FM arrangements for the Grant would be handled by the PMU (or the TWG until
the PMU has been established), which will b e responsible for implementing and monitoring
day-to-day project activities including budgeting, procurement, disbursement, financial
management, reporting, supervision, management of the designated account, and auditing.
The PMUor the TWG will b e supported by AGEFIB, a fiduciary agency familiar with Bank
financial management procedures. Detailed financial management and procurement
arrangements are found respectively inAnnexes 4 and 5.

E.4     Disbursementarrangements
45.     The PMU will be responsible for: (i)          managingthe designated account to be opened
at a commercial bank and (ii)        preparing withdrawal applications to be submitted to the World
Bank. Inview of the emergency nature of the project and the fact that more than 90 percent
of the Grant Proceeds will be used on a single contract for fertilizer, the Direct Payment
method will b e used for this transaction. The report based disbursement method will not
apply under this project.

F.      ProjectRisksandMitigatingMeasures

     Type of Risk               Risk              Risk Mitigating Measures              Residual Risk
                               Rating                                                      Rating
Financial management                    More than 90 percent o f the Grant will be
                                  S     disbursed through Direct Payment (Letter o f         M
Emergency project to                    Credit and Special Commitment) based on
be implemented                          contract for procurement o f fertilizer.
quickly with no FM
system inplace,                         An accountant will be recruited or appointed
unclear arrangement                     within the EFSSP to help strengthen the EFSP
for management o f                      FMcapacity.
funds resultingfrom
the sale o f the fertilizer             The project FM activities will be handled with
financed by the Grant,                  the support o f AGEFIB, an agency with strong
limited knowledge o f                   experience     in Bank        financed   project
the World Bank                          implementation.
procedures
                                        A proposal on the use o f the incomes resulting
                                        from the fertilizer credits will be prepared by

                                                      11

                                      the Government and submitted to the Bank, not
                                      later than December 30,2009.

Lack of transparency                  The project will help strengthen the emergency
and public participation      S       delivery mechanism to       ensure   efficiency,   M
reduces scope to                      accountability,     and   feedback    o f     the
engage existing                       beneficiaries.
community capacity
and to strengthen the                 CEFG'A-CECPA            activities       include
basis for social                      communication programs         to  ensure    that
accountability                        information on project objectives, planned
mechanisms to reduce                  assistance, requirements and targeting are
fraud and corruption                  available to the public.

                                      The    project    will work     with producers
                                      organizations in targeted areas to ensure broad
                                      awareness and understanding,       as well as
                                      independently managed receipt o f complaints
                                      and follow-up mechanisms.
Inadequate capacity for               Technical assistance will be provided to PMU
planned surveillance,         M       to design an M&E plan (including information       L
surveys and monitoring                on instruments for data collection, actors
and evaluation                        responsible, and a detailed timetable) and the
                                      staff will be trained.
OverallRisk(including ieputat: nalRisks)

The governance, fiduciary, and capacity environment o f Beninjustify the rating o f      M
the overall risk as modest for this operation.

               H-High           S - Substantial           M-Modest               L-Low


G.      Terms andConditionsfor ProjectFinancing


46.     Financing terms: The project will be financed on 100% grant terms with proceeds
from the FPCRTF.
47.     There are neither conditions of effectiveness, nor conditions of disbursement.




                                                     12

                    Annex 1: DetailedDescriptionof ProjectComponents
                                       Republic of Benin
                          Emergency Food Security Support Project

1.       This grant i s the Bank's response to support the Government o f Benin's emergency
operations to boost the food crops production in the short-term, and mitigate the impacts o f
the food crisis on the poor. The project aims at increasingdomestic cereal production (maize
and rice) in the short-term by supplying about 13,600 tons o f fertilizers to about 50,000
producers that grow about 96,000 hectares o f cereal crops (rice and maize) during the next
two years, and expanding food crop farmers' access to agricultural inputsinthe medium- and
long-terms.

Project Description
2.       The project has two components: (i)     provision of fertilizers to enhance domestic food
production in the short-tem and (ii)support to the EFSSP P M U in preparing the required
agriculture inputsdelivery institutional mechanisms.


-
Component 1:Provisionof fertilizersto enhancedomesticfood productioninthe short-
term
3.       This component will support the activities of the Emergency Food Security Program
(EFSP) launched by the Government in early 2008. Within the framework o f the EFSP, the
project will help respond to the situation by subsidizing and strengthening emergency
operations for the provision o f fertilizers to about 50,000 producers o f rice and maize, to
boost food production inthe short run.
4.
 fertilizer^'^ for about 50,000 producers of rice (1,250 tons) and maize (7,250 tons). This
         Procurement of fertilizers. In 2009, the project will procure about 8,500 tons o f

support will cover about 54,000 hectares o f cereal crops (5,660 hectares o f rice and 48,340
hectares o f maize) and generate an additional production o f about 60,000 tons o f cereals (rice
- 6,000   tons and maize - 54,000 tons). A total amount of US$8.2 million will be committed
(US$1.2 million for rice and US$7.0 million for maize) for this operation. About 60 percent
o f the amount should be recovered by the Government and used for a new operation in2010.
5.       Memorandum of Understanding between PMU and CERPA20for agricultural
services delivery. CERPAs and through CECPAs*' (their representative units at the local
level), will be responsible for: (i)identifyingand selecting the beneficiaries; (ii)facilitating
the contractual relationship between PMU and producers organizations, including fertilizer
credit recovery activities; (iii)storing the fertilizers and managing their distribution; (iv)
signing in the name o f PMU, fertilizer credit contracts with individual producers through
producers organizations; (v) providing extension services; and (vi) sensitization of producers
for fertilizer credit recovery. The memorandum o f understanding between P M U and the
CERPAs will specify these tasks and the financial support that the P M U will provide22.



  Specifications:NPKSB14-23-14-5-1(about 50% oftotal volume); NPKS15-15-15-4(about 25% oftotal
volume); and urea45%N (about 25% of total volume).
2oCERPA (Centre Regional de Promotion Agricole) is the regional agency ofthe Ministry o f Agriculture,
Livestockand Fisheries.
21The CECPA (Centre Communal de PromotionAgricole) is the local unit ofthe CERPA.
22The CERPA and CECPA are technicallyknowledgeableonthesetasks.

6.       Targeting. CECPAs will select the beneficiaries (rice and maize growers) with
assistance from the PMU. To ensure production, the EFSP envisions addressing both the big
producers who grow more than two hectares (60 percent) and the smaller ones (40 percent),
specifically the women and the youth, in the Valleys o f Oueme, Mono, Niger and Couffo
rivers.
7.       Subsidy of fertilizers. In early 2008, the Government agreed with the producer
organizations and the private sector to fix the price at FCFA235 (US$0.57) per kilogram23.
The estimated price communicated by TWG i s FCFA 400 (US$0.93) per kilogram. Hence,                   d

the project will subsidize the fertilizers for about 40 percent o f this estimated market price so
that producers will pay 235 FCFA.
8.       Contract between PMU and the beneficiaries. Each producer beneficiary will sign a
contract (with PMU) that specifies the quantity o f fertilizers he needs and his commitment to
reimburse FCFA 235 per kilogram received, at the latest five months after harvest. Producer
organizations will facilitate the contact and contractual arrangements between their members
(about 50,000 people) and the PMU.
9.       Emergency procurement and delivery mechanisms consist of: (i)Fast track
competitive selection o f one or two private operators that will import fertilizers; (ii)
                                                                                        the P M U
that will receive the fertilizer and ensure their transportation to the CECPAs' storage
facilities; and (iii)  CECPA will ensure the distribution to final users, in collaboration with
producer organizations.
10.      The Government, through the National Agency for Food Security Agency (NAFS)
will be responsible in recovering thefertilizer credit, which represents 60 percent o f the total
amount committed for fertilizer provision (US$ 4.8 million). The recovered funds will be
secured ina special account.
11.      These activities will be supplemented by other donor agency support to EFSP (under
preparation), to cover expenses for certified seeds delivery and rehabilitation o f small-scale
irrigation infrastructure.
Component2: Supportto PMUand desim of new institutionalmechanismsfor the
delivervof inputsto food crop farmers
12.      This component aims to strengthen the capacity of the EFSSP Project Management
Unit and help the country establish the structural mechanisms required for the delivery of
agricultural inputs, specifically fertilizers and certified seeds. The implementation o f these
mechanisms will help promote the food crops commodity chains in the medium- and long-
terms.
Sub-component2.1:Establishmentof and strengtheningthe PMU
13.      The Temporary Working Group (TWG)24that was established by the Minister o f
Agriculture has been managing the Emergency Food Security Program. For the
implementation o f this project, the TWG will be transformed into a Project ManagementUnit
(PMU) within the Ministry o f Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries.
14.      The PMU will be responsible for the overall project management: (i)planning,
programming, and budgeting o f activities to be financed; (ii)  preparation and management o f
the contractual partnership with the public and private delivery agencies and producer
organizations; (iii)supervision and control o f the field activities; (iv) administration o f


23Uniformpricingpolicyfor the coming plantingseason.
l4Groupe de Travail Intbrimaire


                                                 14

critical technical functions (procurement, monitoring and evaluation, feed-back from the
beneficiaries,  financial management); and (v) preparation o f quarterly reports and end-of
project report.
15.     The PMU will be composed of: (i)      the Coordinator responsible for the overall project
management, (ii)an Agronomist who will promote agriculture systems, (iii)an Irrigation
Specialist, (iv) a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and (v) an accountant with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the World Bank. The Minister will formally
appoint these staffs shortly after project effectiveness.
16.     This sub-component will strengthen the PMU by supporting its coordination
activities, including the development of a monitoring and evaluation system, training,
acquisition o f equipment, office supplies, and other operational costs. At the start o f the
project, the PMUwill organize a consultancy mission to prepare a Monitoringand Evaluation
system that will help to monitor effectively the emergency operation activities, specifically
fertilizer delivery in the field, accountability in the contractual relationships with public and
private partners, and the feedback o f the beneficiaries. The P M U team members will be
trained inusingM&Etools.
Sub-component 2.2: Designof new institutionalmechanismsfor the deliveryof inputs to
food crop farmers
17.     Designing a new institutional mechanismfor the delivery of fertilizers and certified
seeds tofood cropfarmers. A consultancy will be carried out in early 2009 to analyze the
existing mechanisms and other experiences in the country and elsewhere. The consultant,
after discussions with Government officials, the private sector operators, the producer
organizations, etc. will propose a new set o f mechanisms to ensure the delivery o f the priority
agricultural goods and services to the food crop producers, giving priority to the most
vulnerable ones. These future structural mechanisms should be market-based instruments that
establish direct relationship between the producer organizations and the private sector. The
proposal will specify the roles and responsibilities of the producer organizations, as well as
their relationships with the other public and private actors in the commodity chains delivery
arenas. It will recommend activities to strengthen their organizational structure and
management capacities, to ensure accountability and feedback o f beneficiaries. A workshop
will be organized, with the participation o f private operators, producer organizations, and
government representatives to validate the proposal.
18.      The design o f the new institutional mechanisms will help the country over the
medium- and long-terms to cope better with challenges in improving food crop farmers'
access to agricultural inputs. The Bank's future Agricultural Diversification Project could
include actions that aim to strengthen these new institutional mechanisms.




                                                  15

                         Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                                        Republicof Benin
                          EmergencyFoodSecurity Support Project




                                                                        To informpolicy makers
                                                                    on the progress in achieving
                                                                    outcome indicators.
                                                                        To informpolicy makers
                                                                    onthe potentialof innovative
                                                                    institutionalmechanisms for
                                                                    the delivery of agricultural
                                                                    inputsto producers.
                              _ _ _ _
  IntermediateOutcomes        IntermediateOutcomeIndicators
Increasedaccess ofmaizeand        Fertilizerprocuredand distributed     Validate agronomic
riceproducersto fertilizer   to farmers(Tons) Target value: 8,500   suitabilityof inputs and
                             tons (rice 1,250 tons andmaize7,250    extensionservices
                             tons) in2009
                                  Area cultivatedheatedwith
                             adequatedose of fertilizers (hectares)
                             Target value: 54,000 hain2009
                                  Producers usingadequate dose of
                             fertilizer (number
                             Target value:50,000 producersin2009
Innovativeagriculturalinputs  Proposalonnew agricultureinputs           To demonstrate producer
delivery institutional       deliverymechanismsadoptedby            organizationsandprivate
mechanismsdesigned           stakeholders.                          operators' capacity to run
                                                                    innovativeagriculturalinputs
                                                                    deliveryinstitutional
                                                                    mechanisms.




                                                 16

                         Arrangementsfor ResultsMonitoringand Evaluation

                                                 1        I
                                        Target Values                    Data
      Outcome         Baseline                                                                       Responsability
     indicators         20082s                              Frequencyand
                                       2009        '010     Reports              Instruments
                                                                                                    1
 Rice production        42,000                              PMU2009
 inproject areas         tons       Additional             quarterly reports     CERPNCECPA         1CERPAICECPA
 (tons)               (estimate)      6,000                2 and4                Database            PMU

 Maize
 production in          45,000      Additional               PMU 2009            CERPNCECPA          CERPNCECPA
 project areas        (estimate)      54,000                                     Database            PMU
 (tons)
 New agriculture
 inputs delivery                     Designed
 institutional             0       institutional            PMU2009               Validation         PMU
 mechanisms                       mechanisms                quarterly 2          workshop report
 designed in 2010                     adopted
                                                I         I
 Results Indicatorsfor Each( lmponent
 Fertilizer                                     I         I
 procuredand                                                                     Procurement
 distributed to                                             Quarterly PMU        records,invoices    PMU
 farmers   - rice          0          1,250                reports               and receipts
 (Tons)             I
 Fertilizer
 procuredand                                                                     Procurement
 distributed to                                             Quarterly PMU        records, invoices   PMU
 farmers   - maize         0          7,250                reports               and receipts
 (Tons)
 Area
 cultivatedtreated
 with adequate             0          54,000                Quarterly PMU        CERPNCECPA          CERPAICECPA
 dose of                                                   reports               Database            PMU
 fertilizers (ha)
 Producersusing
 adequatedose of                                            Quarterly PMU        CERPNCECPA          CERPAICECPA
 fertilizer                0          50,000               reports               Database            PMU
 (number)




*'Baselinefigures  are estimates and will be confirmedhalidated in a survey to be conductedinNovember 2008
(please see also para 7 of main text).


                                                       17

                           Annex 3: Summary of Estimated Project Costs
                                       Republic of Benin
                             EmergencyFood Security Support Project

Project costs by componentand sub-component(US%)I                I           I
                                                         Local      Foreign     Total

Component 1: Provisionof fertilizer to enhance cereals
food productionin the short-term
Purchase of fertilizer (rice)                            242,410      969,638  1,212,048
Purchase o f fertilizer (maize)                         1,397,590   5,590,362  6,987,952




                                              18

               Annex 4: FinancialManagementandDisbursementAgreements
                                        Republic of Benin
                            Emergency Food Security Support Project

Introduction

1.       A financial management assessment was carried out inaccordance with the Financial
Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on November 3,
2005. The objective of the assessmentwas to determine whether the PUASNEFSP Unit has
acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (i)      the use o f fbnds for
only the intended purposes in an efficient and economical way; (ii)         the preparation o f
accurate, reliable, and timely periodic financial reports; and (iii)
                                                                   safeguard the entity's assets.
The assessment was carried out by the Bank financial management team and included
answers from questionnaire sent to the PUASNEFSP.

Risk Assessment

2.       The OverallInherent Risk o f the public financial management system in Benin was
"High" and recently downgraded to "Substantial". The Government's policy framework for
budget management - Gestion Budgktaire Axge sur les Rbultats (GBAR) was based on the
2005 CFAA26and the recent PEFA27assessments. It i s noted that significant progress has
been made in improving public expenditure management and highlighted risks remaining on
the following areas:
              >   (i) Poor accounting recording and reporting system: public accounts are
              >   generally incomplete and delayed;
                  (ii)Control mechanism: lack ofcoordinationfor ex-post controls, several
              >   unitsworking independently, external audit delayed; and
                  (iii) intheuseof expensesfollowingexceptionalprocedures.
                       Surge

3.        Since May 2006, the Government has taken strong measures to address these issues.
A decree regulating internal audit has been adopted and the use of the exceptional procedure
is restricted. The remaining issues are the delay in the production o f the Government annual
accounts by the Treasury and the Central budget audit reports by the Chamber o f Accounts.

4.       Issue on the delay for production of accounts i s being resolved by the recruitment o f
additional staff and the deployment o f the accounting software to sub national level to be
completed by the end o f 2008. On the external audit, discussion i s inprogress with the GOB
to strengthen the Chamber o f Account capacity. An action plan has been prepared and
supported by donors.

5.       The overall control risk for the project is rated as "Substantial" but appropriate
measures have been envisaged to address the weaknesses identified. Actions outlined in the
Financial Management Action Planbelow will be undertaken by PUASNEFSP to strengthen
its financial management system, with the support o f AGEFIB (Agence de Financement des
Initiatives de Base), a fiduciary agency that provides fiduciary support for three Bank
financed projects.




26It is an updatedversion ofthe 2001 CFAA.
27The recentassessments have beencompletedinNovember2007.
                                               19

Conclusionof FinancialManagementAssessment

6.       The financial management assessment established that the financial management risk
for the project is substantial. The risk mitigation measures inthe table below will ultimately
ensure that the residual financial management risk drops to moderate.

FIDUCIARY RISKS AND MITIGATIONMEASURES

                                Risk
Risk                          Rating Risk Mitigation Measure              Conditionality      Residual
                                                                                              Risk
                                                                                              Rating
Inherent Risks:                   S                                                               S
  Country
ControlRisks:                 =   S                                                              M
Funds Flow                        M                                       None                    M

Staffing                                  An Accountant will be           The accountant
Lack o f adequate qualified       S       recruited or appointed          would be
accountant within the                     within the PUASA                appointed not           M
PUASNEFSP                                                                 later than 21
                                          The FMactivities will be        calendar days

                                          AGE FIB^ .
                                          handled with the support o f    after
                                                                          effectiveness
Internal Control                  M                                                               M
ExternalAudit                             An independent qualified
Project audit reports likely              external auditor from the       AuditTORwill
to be submitted late.                     private sector will be hired to be finalized, not
The Chamber o f Accounts                  carry out the audit o f the     later than 30            L
does not deliver on time and      S       project financial statements    days after
is not yet sufficiently                   under terms o f reference       effectiveness
acquainted with the World                 acceptable to IDA.
Bankaudit procedures.


Reportingand Monitoring
N o FMsystem inplace                      With only 1contract anda        Agreement on
within the PUASNEFSP                      single operation, the project   the IFRformat
for project financial data        S       will disburse more than 90      will be reached          L
record.                                   percent o f the Grant.          not later than 30
                                          A qualified accountant will     days after
Delays inthe submission o f               be recruited, andthe            effectiveness
acceptable IFR.                           AGEFIB, a fiduciary agency
                                          will provide technical
                                          support.


Misuse of the funds                       A proposal of the
resulting from the sale of        H       Government on the use of        The
fertilizers.                              the incomes resulting from      Government's
                                          the fertilizer credits will be  proposal will be
PUASA-EFSP does not                       prepared inDecember 2009        submitted to the
                                                                          Banknot later           M

  AGEFIB (Agencepour le Financement des Initiatives de Base), afiduciaryagency with strongfinancial
managementcapacitythat provides fiduciary supportfor some Bank financedprojects.
                                                   20

have a clear arrangement                                             thanDecember
for management o f funds                                             30 2009.
resulting from the sale o f
the fertilizers.

Information Systems                  M                                                  M
Overall Risk                         S                                                  M


Strengthsand Weaknesses

7.       Strength: The Government is fully committed.

8.       Weakness: (i) of experience inthe implementationo f Bank financed project; (ii)
                           lack
lack o f qualified FM staff; (iii)    arrangement for the management o f funds resulting from the
sale o f fertilizers i s not yet defined.

9.       Financial management arrangements: The FM arrangements for the grant would
be handled by the P M U responsible for implementing and monitoring day-to-day project
activities including budgeting, disbursement, financial management, reporting, supervision,
management o f the designated account, and auditing. The P M U will be supported by
AGEFIB, a fiduciary agency familiar with Bank financial management procedures.

10.      Disbursement arrangements: The EFSSP Management Unit would be responsible
for (i) managing the designated account that will be opened at the commercial bank and (ii)
preparing, with the support o f AGEFIB, withdrawal applications to be submitted to the
World Bank. In view o f the emergency nature of the project and the fact that more than 90
percent o f the Grant Proceeds would be used on a single contract for fertilizer, it would be
prudent to use the Direct Payment method for this transaction. It is unlikelythat report based
disbursement method would apply under this project, giventhe weak capacity situation.

Budgetingarrangements

11.      The Project would adopt a comprehensive cash budgeting arrangement. The Budget
will include all planned project activities for the year. The accountant will be responsible for
preparing the annual budget.

Disbursement arrangements

Disbursement methods

12.      Disbursements under the Grant would be transaction based. Direct Payment and SOE
(Statement of Expenditures) methods will apply as appropriate. A Designated Account will
be opened at a commercial bank to facilitate payment for eligible expenditures for operating
costs and SOE procedure based expenditures for relevant categories o f expenditures as
reflected inthe Grant Agreement.

Report based disbursement

13.      Inview ofthe emergency nature of the project and the fact that more than 90 percent
o f the Grant Proceeds would be used on a single contract for fertilizers, it would be prudent
to use the Direct Payment method for this transaction. Letters o f Credit and Special


                                                  21

Commitment would be applied in this regard. It i s unlikely that report based disbursement
method would apply under this project, given the weak capacity situation.

Flow of funds

14.    The Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) is the assigned representative of the
Recipient for the mobilization o f IDA funds. Withdrawal Application requests are prepared
by the Project Accountant with the support o f AGEFIB, signed by a designated signatory or
signatories (the signature authorization letter i s signed by the Minister o f Finance), and sent
to the Bank for processing. This procedure applies to all Bank financed projects inBenin.

15.    Funds will flow from the Grant Account through the Transit Account opened at the
Central Bank of Benin. The funds would be released to the Designated Account (DA) to be
opened in a reputable commercial bank. The DA would be managed by the PMU, or the
TWGuntilthe P M Uhasbeenestablished.

16.    The Grant proceeds would be disbursedover a two-year period. On project closure, a
period o f four months (grace period) after the closing date, as agreed with the Bank, would
be allowed to complete processing o f disbursement for expenditures incurred up to and until
the closingdate ofthe Grant.




                                              22

     Flow of Funds(See the illustrationbelow)




                                              Grant Account
                                           (Washington) at the




                                             Transit Account
                                         (BCEAO) managedby


                                                     I

                                      I     managedbyPMU          J



                                        Beneficiaries / Suppliers




7Funds
.-+        ReDorts. Goods etc
     CAA         Caisse Autonorne d ilrnortissernent
     DP          DirectPayment
     WA          WithdrawalApplication
     BCEAO       CentralBank




                                                  23

Designated Account

 17.      The ceiling for the Designated Account would be CFAF 100,000.000, apmoximatelv
four months o f expenditures. direct pavment excluded. The Designated Account would be
used for all payments inferior to twenty percent o f the initial deposit.


         Category of               Amount of the       Percentageof Expendituresto be Financed     '
        Expenditures             Grant Allocated                   (excludingTaxes)
                                   (expressedin
                                       USD)

(1) Goods and                    9,000,000           100%
consultants' services,
including Trainingand
audits, and Operating
costs

TOTAL AMOUNT                     9,000,000




                                                                               Percentageof
    Detailed Category of Expenditures                 Grant (US$
                                                         million)           Expenditure to be
                                                                        Financed (taxes excluded)
1. Goods and Equipment                                     0.04                    100%
2. ConsultingServices, Training                            0.38                    100%
3. Fertilizers                                             8.20                    100%
4. Operatingcosts                                          0.08                    100%
5. Unallocated                                             0.30
Tntal                                                      9.00


Audit arrangements

Internal Audit


18.        Internal audit i s a function that will help to strengthen internal control environment.
It is a management tool for informing the management how the PMU is performing with
regard to compliance with policies and procedures. Internal audit functions will be assumed
by the Government internal audit entity within the Ministry of Agriculture, in conformity
with the 2006 decree regulating internal audit.

External audit
19.       The supreme audit institution (Chambre des Comptes) which i s supposed to audit all
public funds has a limited capacity in terms o f staffing and experience o f auditing project
financial statements. In view o f this, an external independent and qualified private sector
auditor will be recruited to carry out the audit o f the project's financial statements. Annual
audits will be conducted based o f the Terms of References (TOR) that will be satisfactory to
the Bank.


                                                   24

20.     The Auditor will express an opinion on the Annual Financial Statements, and perform
hisaudit incompliance with International Standards onAuditing (ISAs). He will be required
to prepare a Management Letter detailing his observations and comments, providing
recommendations for improvements in the accounting system and the internal control
environment. The audit report on the annual project financial statements and activities o f the
DA will be submitted to IDAwithinthree months after the end ofeachproject fiscal year.

Reportingand Monitoring

21.      Quarterly Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFRs) would be prepared by the
project accountant and will include sources and uses of funds by project expenditures
classification. It will also include a comparison of budgeted and actual project expenditures
(commitment and disbursement) to date and for the quarter. The PUASAEFSP P M U will
submitcopies ofthe IFRsto the Bankwithin 45 days following the end of the quarter.

22.      The PMU will produce Annual Financial Statements, and these statements will
comply with International Accounting Standards (IAS) and World Bank requirements. These
Financial Statements    *'will  comprise of:

             9 A StatementofSourcesandUsesofFunds
             9 A StatementofCommitments
             k Accounting PoliciesAdopted andExplanatoryNotes
             9 A Management Assertion that project funds have been expended for the
                 intendedpurposes as specifiedintherelevant financing agreements

Accounting policies andprocedures

23.      Project accounts will be maintained on a cash basis, supported with appropriate
records and procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets. Annual Financial
statements will be prepared by the P M U in accordance with International Accounting
Standards.

SupervisionPlan

24.      The intensity o f on-site FM visits will be based on the assessed FM risk for the
project. Duringproject implementation, there will be two supervision missions during year 1
and one the following year, complemented by desk reviews o f quarterly IFRs; review of
annual audited financial statements and management letter as well as timely follow-up o f
arising issues; and updating the FMrating inthe Implementation Status Reports (ISR).

FinancialManagementActionPlan

25.      The actionplanbelow indicates the actions to betaken for the project to strengthen its
financial management system.


Actionto betaken                     By when                               By whom

Appoint an accountant within Not later than 21 days after                  Minister o f Agriculture,

*'It should be notedthat the project financial statements shouldbe all inclusive and cover all sources and uses
of funds andnot only those providedthrough IDA funding. It thus reflects all program activities, financing, and
expenditures,includingfunds from other development partners.
                                                     25

the P M U to handle FMand       effectiveness                Livestock and Fisheries
accounting activities
Draft the TORfor the            Not later than 30 days after PMU, with the support of a
financial audit o f the Project effectiveness                fiduciary agent o f a Bank
                                                             financedproject.
Agree on format o f the IFRs    Not later than 30 days after PMU/WB
                                effectiveness




                                             26

                            Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements
                                      Republicof Benin
                          Emergency FoodSecurity Support Project

A. General

1.     Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the i)
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May
2004, revised October 2006; ii)"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers'' dated May 2004, revised October 2006; (iii)Requirements o f
OP8.00 for Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies; and (iv) the provisions stipulated in
the Grant Financing Agreements. The various itemsunder different expenditure categories to
be financed are described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Government and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

2.     Procurement of Goods In total 8,500 tons of fertilizer will be procured under the
project, including operating cost for delivery. Inresponse to the new Framework for Rapid
Response to Crises and Emergencies captured in OP8.00, and to facilitate project
implementation and quick delivery o f results, No-Objection will be given, where appropriate,
to the application o f the following: Using fast track competitive procedures as procurement
methods (fast track LIB3') for procurement o f goods; using lists o f qualified suppliers with
good track record to whom invitations are issued. When appropriate, procurement through
shopping procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank may be
used, for small quantities o f goods estimated to less than US$50,000. The procurement will
be done using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all International
Competitive Biding(ICB) andNational SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank.

3,     Selection of ConsultantsConsultancy services (for firms and eventually, individuals)
include (i)strengthening the capacity o f P M U to conduct successfully the emergency
operations and (ii) strengthening the capacity o f P M U inpreparing the country for setting-up
the mechanisms required inpromoting the food crops commodity chains inthe medium- and
long-terms. The project has been classified as a rapid response project where, in conjunction
OP8.00, Accelerated and Streamlined Procedures may apply to improve the flexibility,
speed, and effectiveness o f the Bank's emergency response. The use o f a "pool o f experts,"
or a list o f "pre-selected' consulting firms and/or individuals may, therefore, be an
appropriate method for supporting project implementation. Such a method will remain
consistent with Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS), Consultants' Qualification
Selection (CQS), and/or the Selection o f Individual Consultants. No-Objection will also be
given for sole-sourcing (single-sourcing) o f consulting firms, where it presents a clear
advantage over competition. Firms already working in the area and which have a proven
track record in similar assignments may be the most suitable; selection o f consulting firms
through CQS method will be done for contracting firms already working in the area and
which have a proven track record for the provision o f technical assistance. The selection
process will be done as follows:




30LimitedInternationalBiding
                                              27

             o For all contracts to be awarded following QCBS, Least Cost Selection (LCS)
                 and Fixed Budget Selection (FBS), the Banks Standard Request for Proposals
                 will beused.
             o Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
                 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
                 accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.
             o Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 per contract for
                 firms, and single source selection o f consultants (firms and individuals) will
                 be subject to prior review by the Bank. Prior review o f the evaluation process
                 o f the selection o f individual consultants (Le., comparison o f three CVs) will
                 only be carried out in exceptional circumstances, for example when hiringan
                 Advisor for the entire project duration which could result in a substantial
                 contract amount. Such contracts will be identified inthe ProcurementPlan.

4.      Training and Workshops Training will be carried out based on approved programs
on a yearly basis. The programs will identify the general framework o f training and similar
activities for the year, including the nature and objectives o f training and workshops as they
relate to the project objectives.

5.      IncrementalOperation Costs Inaddition, projects will finance incremental project
implementation-related expenditures such as in-country travel, per diem, office supplies,
office rentals, utilities, maintenance, consumables, communication costs, etc. These will be
financed by the project on a declining basis, and would be procured using the Client
Management Platform, where appropriate.

B.      Assessment of the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

6.      Procurement activities would be managed by the PMU (to be created). The TWG i s
the actual PMUfor the EFSSP.

7.      An assessment of the capacity of these entities has been carried out in July 2008 by
the World Bank AFR Procurement Unit. The assessment was based on the working
experience o f the TWG, and reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the
project and the interaction between the project staff responsible for procurement and the
Ministry'srelevant centralunitfor administration andfinance.

8.      The evaluation revealed that TWGRMU has no record inprocurement. However, the
mainprocurementactivity consists o f a single operation for providing 8,500 tons of fertilizer,
for a total amount o fUS$8.2 million (91 percent o f total project cost) inyear 1.

9.      Therefore the corrective measures proposed are: (i)        technical assistance o f a Bank
financed project procurement specialist3', to help the P M U in conducting the goods
procurement and Consultants selection procedures, and (iii)Project supervision o f the
procurement activities by Bank staff.

10.     The overall project risk for procurementis substantial,




3'The procurementspecialistofAGEFIB (Agence de Financement des Initiatives de Base) will providethat
technicalassistance. AGEFIBhas a strongexperience inimplementingBank Financedprojects.
                                                  28

C.ProcurementPlan

11.     The Borrower,            at  appraisal,    developed a procurement plan for project
implementation, which provides the basis for the procurement methods. The plan has been
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank team and i s available at TWG/PMU's office in
Benin. It will also be available in the project's database and in the Bank's external website.
The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Bank team annually or as
requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional
capacity. All procurement will be carried out in accordance with the formally agreed
Procurement Plans (original and formally updated).

D. Frequencyof Procurement Supervision

12.     Inaddition to the Bank supervision missions at least each semester duringthe first
year o f the project, an annual post procurement review will be conducted for contracts that
are not subject to the Bank prior review. The procurementpost-reviews should cover at least
20 percent of contracts subject to post-review.

E.Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services

(a) List of contract packages.


                                    i                       1      1         1            1          I
  1 1                2                   3           4     1  5   1    6    1     7           8         9

                  Contract           Estimated      Proc.    Pre-   Domestic   Review      Expectd    Comments
               (Description)           Cost       ~Method    Qual.   Pref.    by Bank        Bid-
                                      US$'OOO                       (yeslno)   Prior /     Opening             1

      for maize)
  2   Transportof 6375 tons of             204      NCB"      No     No        Prior        Dec. 10,
      fertilizer from Allada to main                                                         2009
      villages
  3   Acquisitionof vehicle 4x4 for         40     Shopping   No     No        Prior        Oct. 20,
      the PMUsupervision                                                                     2008



(b) Prior Review:            All goods contracts that cost US$300,000 and above, all direct
contracting, the first two contracts o f each procurement method irrespective of the amount
will be subject to prior review by the Bank as determined mandatory inparagraphs 2 to 4 o f
annex 1of the Bank's procurement Guidelines.

c) Post Review: For each contract for goods not submitted to the prior review, the
procurement documents will be submitted to IDA post review in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraph 5 o f Annex 1o f the Bank's procurement Guidelines. The post review
will bebasedon a ratioof at least 1to 5 contracts.




32LIB:Limited InternationalBiding
33NCB: National Competitive Biding
                                                      29

    ConsultingServices

    (a)     List of consulting assignments with short-list of international$rms:

                                                                        5          6       1   7
~
  1 1                    2                         3         4

                                               Estimated Selection  Review    Expected      Comments
                                                 Cost    Method     by Bank
                                                us$'ooo                       Proposals
                                                                              Submission

 1     Design of a new institutional                  57 QCBS34

      1mechanismfor input delivery to food
       crop farmers
 2    IProject indicators' references survey  I       16 CQS35
                                                        I
 3     Project Financial audit                        16 LCS'b
       (2009 and 2010)
 4     Projecttechnicalaudit                          15 Individual

    (b)     Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 per contract for firms, and
    all single source selection o f consultants will be subject to prior review o f the Bank. The
    selection of individual consultants will be subject to Bank prior review if required on
    approvedprocurementplan.

    (c)     Post Review: for each contract for services not submitted to the prior review, the
    procurement documents will be submitted to IDA post review in accordance with the
    provisions o f paragraph 5 of Annex 1o f the Bank's procurement Guidelines. The post review
    will be based ona ratio o f at least 1to 5 contracts.

    (d)     Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for
    services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO        equivalent per contract may be composed
    entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the
    Consultant Guidelines.




   ''QCBS:Consultant's
    34       Quality and Cost BasedSelection
      CQS:               Qualification Selection
    36LCS: Least Cost Selection
                                                       30

                  Annex 6: Implementationand MonitoringArrangements
                                       Republic of Benin
                         EmergencyFood Security Support Project

1.      Overall implementation arrangements. The Minister of Agriculture, Livestock,
and Fisheries will appoint a Project Management Unit (PMU), composed of: (i)         a coordinator
responsible for the overall project management (ii)      an agronomist responsible for promoting
agriculture systems; (iii)  a monitoring and evaluation specialist, and (iv) an accountant
responsible for financial management activities. The P M U will be assisted by AGEFIB, a
fiduciary agency familiar with Bank financial management procedures. The Minister will
formally appoint the staff soon after project effectiveness. The P M U will be responsible for
the overall project management: (i)planning, programming and budgeting the financed
activities; (ii)preparation and management o f the contractual partnership with the public and
private delivery agencies, and with producers organizations; (iii)      supervision, control o f the
filed activities; (iv) administration o f the critical technical functions (procurement, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation,                feed-back o f the beneficiaries, financial
management); and (v) preparation o f quarterly reports and aproject closure report.

2.      Due to the nature of the project, the lack of capacity at the Ministry of Agriculture
level, and a greater implementation speed for effectiveness, the project will recruit some key
consultants including (in addition to the support of AGEFIB for financial management), an
internal auditor to strengthen the FM capacity within the PMU. It i s expected that the
appointed staff capacity will be greatly improved duringthe project implementation period to
allow them to operate efficiently by the end o f the IDA financing.

3.      The PMUwill sign a Memorandum o f Understandingwith two Government agencies
that will be responsible for carrying-out field activities:

        (i)      CERPAs (regional delivery agencies of the Ministry o f Agriculture) for the
        delivery o f extension and other agricultural services; and
         /


        (ii)     NAFS (National Agency for Food Security) for the recovery o f the fertilizer
        credit.

4.      Implementation arrangement The PMU will be responsible for the contract with
the suppliers and other entities involved in the implementation o f the components activities.
Various cost recovery mechanisms have been envisaged and have to be discussed with the
Government before December 15, 2008. Modalities o f the establishment, procurement,
management, monitoring and control o f the stock will be detailed in the project operation
manual, which will be prepared by the PMU, in order to ensure that effective delivery
mechanisms are inplace.

Monitoringand evaluation arrangements

5.      At the start o f the project, a consultancy mission will be organized to propose a
Monitoring and Evaluation system that will help the P M U to monitor effectively the
emergency operational activities, specifically the realities in the field, the accountability in
the contractual relationships with the public and private partners, and the feedback o f the
beneficiaries. The PMUteam members will be trained inusingthese M&E tools.

6.      The PMU will be responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation activities. It
will present quarterly reports.

                                                  31

            Annex 7: ProjectPreparationandAppraisalTeamMembers
                                 Republicof Benin
                    EmergencyFood Security Support Project

          Name                                Title                    Unit
Alain F. Onibon           AgriculturalEconomist (Task Team Leader) AFTAR
Joelle Dehasse            Sr. Operations Officer                   AFCCI
OusmaneBadiane            Lead Rural Development Specialist        AFTAR
Hugues Agossou            Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist       AFTFM
Cheik A. T. Traork        Sr. Procurement Specialist               AFTPC
Daria Goldstein           Sr. Counsel                              LEGAF
Amadou Konare             Safeguards Specialist                    AFTEN
Aissatou Diallo           Finance Officer                          LOAFC
Marie Claudine Fundi      Language Program Assistant               AFTAR




                                         32

                                           Annex 8: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                                            Republic of Benin
                                          Emergency Food Security Support Project

                                                                                                                         Difference between
                                                                                                                         expectedand actual
                                                                 Original Amount inUS$ Millipns                            disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA      SF        GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.     Fm. Rev'd
PI04881     2008   Compet & IntegratedGrowth Opportunity         0.00     25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    25.49     0.00          0.00
PO96056     2007   BJ- Multi SectoralHIViAIDS SIL 2              0.00     35.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    34.11      1.41         0.00
                   (FY07)
PO82725     2006   BJ-DecentralCity Mgmt 2 (FY06)                0.00     35.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    55.34     3.41          0.00
PO96482     2006   BJ-Malaria Cntrl BoosterPrgmSIL (FY06)        0.00     31.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    19.45     6.16          0.00
PO79633     2005   BJ-EnergySrvc Delivery AF'L (FY05)            0.00     45.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    38.42     26.72        -6.04
PO81484     2005   BJ-NatlCDD SIL (FY05)                         0.00     50.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    26.85     8.69          0.00
                                                      Total:     0.00   221.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   199.66     46.45      -  6.04




                                                        STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                        InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                                 Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                                IFC                                       IFC
        FY Approval   Company                       Loan      Equity       Quasi    Partic.    Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic.
        2000          FINADEV                       0.00         0.34       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.34      0.00       0.00
                                  Total portfolio:   0.00        0.34       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.34     0.00        0.00




                                                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval     Company                             Loan       Equity      Quasi      Partic.




                                             Total pendingcommitment:      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00




                                                                      33

                                         Annex 9: Country at a Glance
                                                   Republicof Benin
                                 EmergencyFood Security Support Project

                                                                 Sub-
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan        Low-
                                                     Benin     Afrlca     Income      l e v e l o ~ m e ndiamond'
                                                                                                         t
2006
 Population,mld-year(milibns)                             8.7      770       2.403
 GNIpercapita(Alias melhod,Us$)                          540      e42         850                    Lifeexpectancy
GNI(Atlasmethod,US$biiilons)                              4.7     e48        1562
Average annual growth, 2000.06                                                                              T
 Population(%)                                            3.1      2.4          19
 Laborforce(%)                                            3.3      2.8         2.3
 M os1 recent estimate (latest year avallable, 2000-06)
 PovertyI%ofpopulatbnbbwnafionalpovertyiine)
 Urbanpopulation(%oflolaipopu/albn)                       41       38          30
Lifew t a n c y a t birth()gars)                          55       47          59                           1
 Infantmortallty(per lOOOlivebirths)                      89       98          75
Childmalnutrition(%of chiidmnunder.5)                     30       30                       Access to improvedwdtersource
Access to animprovedvatersource(%ofpopulation)            67       56          75
 Llteracy(%ofpopulatbnage 59                              35       59           61
Gross pdmaryenmllment(%ofschooCage popuiafion)            96       92          0 2            -Benin
  Male                                                    0 7      98          0 8             __Lowincomegroup
   Female                                                 85       86          96

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                              1880     1096     2005        2006
GDP (US$ billions)                               13       2 2      4.3         4.8
Grosscapitalformation1GDP                       0.5       n.1      B.8
ExportsOf90066 andSeNiCeSIGDP                   B.7      K.8       0.5                                    Trade
Grossdomestlcsavlnps1GDP                        -2.5      3.4      6.9
Gross nationalSavIngslGDP                        15       4.5      0.6                                      1
Currentaccount balance/GDP                      -6.5     -8.4     -6.5        -8.7
InterestpaynentslGDP                             16       0.7      0.4                Domestic
Total debt1GDP                                 74.0      72.1     43.3                savings
Total debt sewIce/eyports                       0.3       9.3      9.5
Presentvalueof debt1GDP                                            9.8
Presentvalueof debVBxports                                        57.0
                                                                                                      indebtedness
                                    188646 1896.06     2005     2006 2006.10
(average annualgroah)
GDP                                     3.0     4.5       2.9      4.1
GDP percapita                          -0.5      13      -0.3       11                                Lowincome Qroup
Exportsof goods andsewlces              2.1     2.5       5.0


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY


                                              W66      1896     2005        2006
(%ofGDP)                                                                             Growth of capital and GDP (%)

Agriculture                                    33.7      37.7     32 2               30 T
Industry                                        P.1      0.7       0 4
  Manufactudng                                  7.2       8.3      7 5
SeNlCeS                                        542       48.6     544
Householdfinalconsumptlonexpenditure           072       85.9     78 1
Genemlgov'tfinalconsumptionexpenditure          15 3     0.7       KO
Importsof goods andsewices                     32.6      295      26 1

                                           1986.96 1896.06      2005        2006
(average ennuaigroahl                                                                Growth of exports and Imports (X)
Agriculture                                     5.2       5.0      4 4               E T
Industry                                        5.4       4.5      4 8
  Manufacturlng                                 8.6       4.4      45
SerAces                                         0.8       4.2      0 9
Householdfinalconsumptionexpenditure            2.8       14      -3 2
Genemlgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure         -0.1      8.8      215
Grosscapitalformation                            5.1     P.8       n 5        217
Importsof goods andsewices                       14       3.0      41               I        -EXoorts          +llTDOrtS     I

Note 2006data arepreilmlnaryestimates
Thistablewdsproducedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicsLDB database
'The diamonds showfour keyindicatorsinthe country(1nbold)comparedmth its Incomegroupaverage If dataaremissing.the diamondbill
  beincomplete




                                                               34

                                                                                                                      Benin
                                                                          ~~    ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1886     1996      2005        2008
Domestic prlces                                                                       Inflation (56)

(% change)                                                                            loT                                   I
Consumer pnces                                          4 9        5 4        3.6
ImplicitGDP deflator                            -3.6    67         2 8         6.1

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes cumnt grants)
Current revenue                                         VO        20 3                        01    02    03  04    09    08
Currentbudget balance                                   40         50
Overallsurplus/deficit                                 -25        -2 4                        --GDPde(laor     +CPI


TRADE
                                             1886    1996       2005       2008
(US$ millions)                                                                       [Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              IB    263        627
 Ginnedcotton                                    34     2 9       257                i750T
 Crudeoil                                        20       11
 Manufactures                                                                        MO

Total imports @if)                             257     444
 Food                                           n 9     D6                           250
 Fuelandenergy                                   29     54         eo
 Capitalgoods                                   07     249                           1                                  OBI
                                                                                       0

Exportpnce index(2000=00!                                          IV                      00    01   02   03  04  05

Import price index(2000-00)                                        0 4
Terms of trade(2000=130)                                           1P




BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                             I986    1996       2005      2006
(US%miflions)                                                                      /Current account balance to GDP (X)     I
Exports of goods andservices                   360     424         60
Imports of goods and services                  522     E34        183
Resource balance                               -ni     40        -573

Net income                                      -26    -46        -29        -52
Net currenttransfers                             80      71
Currentaccount balance                          -67    -85        -281       -418

Financingitems (net)                            66     243        234
Changesin net reserves                             1   -56         46

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (Us$millions)                              529        496
Conversionrate(DCC,locaUUS$)                 346 3    5118       527 5      522.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1988    l9Q6      2005    2006
(US$ millbns)                                                                        Composition o f 2005 debt (US$ mlll.)

Totaldebt outstanding anddisbursed             989    1,593      1655
 IBRD                                                     0         0           0  i
 IDA                                            sa0    520        771         0 6                      G:39

Total debt service                              62      46         69
 IBRD                                             0       0          0          0
 IDA                                             2        7         P           11

Composition of net resource flow
 Official grants                                 41     P3         R4
 Official creditors                              61     83         49
 PnvateCreditors                                -18       0        -4
 Foreign direct investment (netinflow)            1     36         21
 Portfolio equity(net inflow)                    0        3

WorldBank program
 Commitments                                     2      40         65          4
 Disbursements                                  27      41         49         23
 Pnncipal repaynents                             0        3         6          6
 Net flows                                      26      37         43         B
 Interstpawents                                   1       4         6          4
 Net transfers                                  25      34         37         12


Note This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database                                              9/26/07




                                                              35


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33372

0                                1E                                                           2E                                                                                 3E                                              4E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Dosso                    Sokoto

                                                                                                                                                                             NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                             NIGER RIVER   NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                                    RIVER

                                                            BURKINA                                                                                                                                                                                         12N

                      BENIN                                   FASO                                                             MkrouMkrou                                              Malanville
                                                                                                                                                                                         Malanville




                                                               Pendjari

                                                                                                                                                         AliboriAlibori
                                                                                                                     s
                                                                                                          a i n

                To                                                                            n    t                                                           KandiKandi
              Dapaong
  11N                                                         PanjariPanjari            o u                                                                                                  SotaSota
                                                                                 M                                                                                                                                                                          11N

                                                                                              MkrouMkrou                                             A L I B O R I


                                                        a
                                          k or
                                                        ATA K O R A
                                      ta
                                   A                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lake
                                    NatitingouNatitingou                                                                                                                                                                                                   KainjiKainji

                                                                                                                               Bembrk
                                                                                                                               Bembrk                                    Tassin
                                                                                                                                                                              ssin
                        Koumongou
10N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10N



                                                                DjougouDjougou
                                                                                                              OumOum                             B O R G O U                                                       NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                             To

                                   To
                                  Kabou                                                                        AlpouroAlpouro                                 OkparaOkpara                                 Kaiama


                                                           D O N G A                                                          ParakouParakou




9N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9N

                          TOGO

                                                                                                                                                                                                      0   20       40       60       80         100 Kilometers



                                                                                                                                                                                                      0        20             40              60 Miles
   GHANA
                                                                                         C O L L I N E S
                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
8N                                                                                             SavalouSavalou                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information     8N
                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                        ZouZou                 Dassa-
                                                                                                               Dassa-                                                                                                             1E
                                                                                                               Zoum
                                                                                                               Zoum
                                                                                                                               Oum
                                                                            Couf
                                                                            Couffo                                                PLATEAUPLATEAU                                                                      BENIN
                                                                                            Z O U
                                                                                       AbomeyAbomey            Cov
                                                                                                               Cov
                                                         COUFFOCOUFFO                                                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                          Bohicon
                                                                                                          Bohicon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
7N                                                                                                                                                    PobPob                         7N
                                        To                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                       Nots                                Aplahou
                                                                            Aplahou
                                                                                DogboDogbo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIVERS
  LakeLake                                                                                                                                 OUEMEOUEM
  Vo ta
  Vol                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                               M O N O                                                                              E    SaktSakt
                                                                                                                                                                                Ibadan                               MAIN ROADS
                                                                              LokossaLokossa  ATLANTIQUE
                                                                                                   TLANTIQUE                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                               MonoMono                                                                 PORTO NOVO
                                                                                                                                                        PORTO NOVO                                                   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES

                                                           To
                                                          Lom                                            OuidahOuidah CotonouCotonou                  LITTORALLITTORAL                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BIGHT OF BENIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BIGHT OF BENIN
0                                1E                                                           2E          Gulf of Guinea                                                         3E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECEMBER 2005

