Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2409-RO
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
CRAIOVA CHEMICAL PROJECT
November 14, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  :  Leu (plural Lei)
1. Official Rate,
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$o.08
3.  Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00 = us$1.60
Leu 1.00 = us$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1, having
been revalued from a rate of lei 14.38 per US$1 in October 1974. Beginning
in March 1978, a trading rate of lei 18 per US$1 has been used to convert
the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative of the
average cost of convertible foreign exchange. Consequently, this rate has
been used as the base rate for calculation in the appraisal.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATI0NS
The Central, CIICh                -  Central for Chemicals and Fertilizers
DANUBEXIM                         -  Danubiana Export Import Agency for the
Chemical Industry
IITPIC                            -  Technological Engineering and Design
Institute for Chemical Industry
ROMCHIM                           -  Import Agency for Chemical Equipment and
Technology under the Ministry of
Chemical Industry
tpd                               - Metric Tons per Day
tpy                               - Metric Tons per Year
VAM                               - Vinyl acetate monomer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA - Craiova Chemical Project
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Investment Bank of Romania
Guarantor:       Socialist Republic of Romania
Beneficiary:    Craiova Chemical Complex
Loan Amount:    US$40 million equivalent
Terms:           Repayable in 14 years, including a 3-1/2 year grace period,
through semi-annual installments, with interest at 7.35
percent per annum.
Project
Description:   The project would consist of the installation of a 30,000
metric tons per year (tpy) acetylene unit using methane
feedstock which would provide additional acetylene inter-
mediate to new or expanded downstream units and would also
deliver off-gases for use in the existing ammonia reactor
and in part of the new acetic acid plant. The capacities of
the existing vinyl acetate and polyvinyl acetate units would
be expanded and the acetaldehyde unit would be fully utilized.
New units which would be constructed under the project include
methanol, acetic acid, acetic anhydride, and ethyl acetate
plants. A new unit would also be constructed for the sepa-
ration of carbon monoxide (CO) which would provide CO to
the new acetic acid plant and hydrogen to the existing
butanol plant.  The project would enable Romania both to
earn and save scarce foreign exchange, and would assist in
the transfer of technology to the Romanian chemical sector
for some of the project products. The project would also
provide employment for about 1,100 people. The only sub-
stantial identified risk is that it may not be possible to
achieve fully the planned exports of 30 percent of produc-
tion during the first three years of operation due to heavy
competition in western markets (absorbing 60 percent of the
initial export tonnage) and high EEC tariffs. This risk
is reduced to an acceptable level by the flexibility in
project design, which enables different production mixes
to be undertaken without affecting overall project profit-
ability and viability. By 1985 the export percentage will
decrease to 8 percent and this risk largely disappears.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oAicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorlatlon.



Cost Estimates
US$ Millions         Foreign as %
Item                        Local  Foreign   Total       of Total
Civil Works and Buildings               24.3    0.6       24.9          2
Equipment Material and Spares           44.6   39.6       84.2         47
Other                                   17.3    3.9       21.2         18
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)             86.2   44.1       130.3         34
Physical Contingencies
(3.2% of BCE)                           2.7    1.5        4.2
Price Excalation
(6.3% of BCE and Physical Cont.)        1.1    7.4        8.5
Sub-total                         90.0   53.0       143.0
Working Capital                          6.1    2.4        8.5
Total Project Cost                      96.1   55.4      151.5
Interest During Construction             0.8    4.3        5.1
Total Financing Required                96.9   59.7      156.6
Financing Plan:                          US$ Millions
Local    Foreign      Total
State Budget                            96.9      6.8        103.7
IBRD                                     -       40.0         40.0
Supplier's Credit                        -       12.9         12.9
TOTAL                             96.9      59.7        156.6
Estimated Disbursements:                 US$ Millions
Bank FY         1979      1980    1981    1982
Annual             7.0      19.0    11.0      3.0
Cumulative         7.0      26.0    37.0    40.0
Internal Economic Return:    16 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 2144-RO; October 30, 1978
Industrial Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA FOR A CRAIOVA CHEMICAL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$40 million to help finance a
project for the production of chemical products. The loan would have a term
of 14 years, including 3 1/2 years of grace, with interest at 7.35 percent per
annum. Co-financing in the form of a supplier's credit, equivalent to US$12.9
million, is being finalized.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The first basic report on Romania (Report no. 1601-RO, "The Indus-
trialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An economic mission visited
Romania in mid-May to collect information on economic performance in 1977 and
to discuss the 1978 Annual Plan and the new economic measures announced in
February 1978. This part incorporates its findings. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
3.        Over the past 25 years the Romanian economy has undergone a radical
transformation and has sustained one of the highest growth rates in the world.
The average growth rate of national income during the period has been 9.7
percent per annum. The level and diversification of industrial production
has increased rapidly, providing the basis for the modernization and expansion
of other economic sectors and a general increase in labor productivity and
national income. With the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry,
the population has become increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have
increased substantially, not only because of the growth of personal incomes
but also because of the provision through the state budget of expanded and
improved education, medical services, housing and social expenditures of other
kinds. Furthermore, Romanian participation in the world economy has changed
significantly as the level of trade has risen and its composition altered.
4.        The changes in the level and structure of economic activities be-
tween 1950 and 1975 represent the outcome of a development strategy designed to
accelerate the rate of growth and to catch up, as quickly as possible, with
the level and structure of development in the developed countries. The
main features of the strategy can be summarized as: high and increasing rates
of saving and investment; the creation of a broad industrial base; the devel-
opment of local natural resources; the reorganization and modernization of
agriculture; the balanced regional distribution of production and income; the
expansion of foreign trade and international economic relations; and the
development of human resources.



- 2 -
5.        The main instrument for carrying out the strategy has been the
system of comprehensive central planning and management. Economic management
is organized along socialist principles which include state and cooperative
ownership of almost all productive resources. Economic activity is directed
by means of obligatory development planning coordinated by the central party
and government authorities. The national plan, drawn up on a five-year time
frame and elaborated each year in an Annual Plan, sets out for the economy as
a whole, by sector and branch, and on a regional basis, specific tasks for
economic and social units. The plan is drawn up through a combination of
central directives and aggregation of individual enterprise plans, any dif-
ferences being reconciled through discussions between the entities involved.
During the late 1960s and throughout the present decade, Romania has under-
taken measures to improve the planning and management system, to increase the
responsibility of enterprises in preparing and implementing the plan and to
orient the economy to a more efficient use of resources (see para 20 for the
latest changes).
6.        The technical and functional Ministries are the State's chief agents
for the administration of economic activity. They are assisted by subordinate
units known as Centrals, which coordinate and supervise activities within a
common branch or industry without being directly engaged in production. Enter-
prises subordinate to the Centrals are responsible for production which is
controlled through a system of financial and physical production targets. In
agriculture, large State farms and cooperatives are the predominant units of
production.
7.        To achieve the objectives of rapid growth and structural change, the
Romanian authorities have made great efforts to mobilize domestic resources
for development and to maintain a high rate of capital formation. Over the
past 25 years, investment has grown at 13 percent per annum, and by the 1971-
75 Five-Year Plan, the proportion of national income utilized for accumulation
had risen to 34.1 percent (equivalent to 27-28 percent of GNP). The sectoral
allocation of investment throughout the period reflected the priority of
industrialization and the creation of a broad industrial base oriented towards
self-sufficiency; approximately 50 percent of investment has been allocated to
industry and, of this, by far the largest part was directed to the producer
goods sector. This has resulted in rapid growth of the industrial sector,
over 13 percent per annum during the last decade, with the producer goods
sector growing more rapidly than consumer goods. In 1976 industry was the
leading sector of the economy, accounting for almost 60 percent of national
income, and employing approximately 32 percent of the labor force compared
with 14 percent in 1950. Heavy industry, led by chemicals, ferrous metallurgy,
engineering and machine building comprised 62 percent of industrial production.
8.        However, this industrialization strategy has particularly increased
the demand for raw materials and energy. It has also necessitated rapid growth
of construction. Romania has concentrated on exploiting known local resources
of fuels, mretnls and minerals to be as self-sufficient as possible in these
items. The rapid growth of energy consumption, 8.6 percent per annum since



- 3 -
1950, has outpaced the growth of domestic production. Romania started to
import oil in 1968 and became a net importer of energy in 1972.
9.        Notwithstanding the emphasis on industrialization, agriculture
remains a key sector of the economy, still employing 36 percent of the labor
force (compared with 74 percent in 1950). Apart from supplying foods and
other agricultural products as inputs for agro-industries, the sector also
supplies about 30 percent of the nation's convertible foreign exchange earn-
ings. Though agricultural output almost tripled in the last 25 years, the
faster growth of non-agricultural sectors has reduced its share in national
income to somewhat over 18 percent by 1976. Over the past decade, agricultural
performance has improved with the increased emphasis on agricultural develop-
ment and the increased investment funds made available. However, the level
and growth of production have remained below the sector's potential.
10.       Romania's population growth is about 1 percent per annum.  The
rapid growth of industrial employment has therefore drawn labor from the rural
areas. The average GNP growth of 9 percent per annum implies a percentage
growth in output per head of about 8 percent per annum, up to an estimated GNP
per capita of US$1,580 in 1977, based upon official national income information
using the World Bank Atlas methodology.
11.       The organization of the economy is such that all labor is employed
(indeed, required to work). There is, however, some seasonal labor surplus
in agriculture. Income distribution is also relatively equal, through govern-
ment policy controls over the level, growth and structure of wages. By law
the maximum wage/salary is five and a half times the minimum. Monthly wages
were increased by 8.3 percent in 1976 to an average of 1,964 lei. The Govern-
ment also promotes its income distribution policies through regional allocation
of industrial investment.
12.       The Government aims to give the population a basic needs package,
partly by providing services such as education, health and housing. From this
basic level, the Government has planned annual increases in living standards.
Real incomes have risen at an annual rate of 6.6 percent since 1950, with the
growth rate accelerating particularly in the last decade as more benefits of
a rapidly expanding national income were channelled to consumption. Prices
of essential consumer goods and services such as foodstuffs, rents and urban
transport remain low and most social services, notably education and health
care, are provided free of charge.
13.       The value of Romania's trade grew at an average annual rate of 13
percent in the past 25 years, with a gradual acceleration in the last decade,
reflecting not only the effects of international inflation but also an increase
in the importance of trade, particularly industrial imports, to the economy.
The level of imports rose in response to the need for capital goods and raw
materials, reaching US$6.10 billion in 1976. Exports also grew rapidly,
reaching a level of US$6.14 billion in 1976, and the share of manufactured



- 4 -
goods increased to 50 percent, reflecting the progress of Romania's indus-
trialization. Trade with LDC's and developed market economies has also been
increasing rapidly in response to policies of diversifying sources of raw
material supply and as a consequence of exports of more manufactured goods.
In recent years, there has also been a tendency to move away from trade on
a bilateral basis towards trade involving multilateral payments, within the
framework of the general trade cooperation agreements signed with almost all
of the country's trading partners. These agreements also covered cooperation
in production, technical assistance and economic relations. In 1977, the
convertible balance of payments deteriorated, reversing the trend of the
previous three years. After a surplus of US$76 million in 1976, the trade
balance had a deficit of US$81 million in 1977, as a result of additional
imports made necessary by the earthquake, the diversion of export goods
to the domestic economy for reconstruction and continued weak demand in the
developed countries for more Romanian exports. With an increased deficit on
the invisibles account (US$192 million compared with US$137 million in 1976),
there was a current account deficit in 1977 of US$273 million compared with
the 1976 deficit of US$61 million.
14.       In spite of these developments, the structure of Romania's trade
with the developed market economies is still characterized by exports of
natural resources and imports of capital goods. Because of the present low
level of reserves, any instability in export earnings, as frequently arises
from shortfalls in agricultural output or softening in prices tends to place
the import program, largely sophisticated machinery and components, in imme-
diate jeopardy.
Recent Economic Developments
15.       The Five-Year Plan under implementation covers the period 1976-80.
The high growth rates experienced during 1971-75 are planned to continue. The
pattern of growth planned for this period suggests that the present decade has
been viewed as a decisive period in the achievement of long-term objectives,
during which Romania will overcome the major constraints on its transformation
from a developing country into a developed and technologically advanced coun-
try. There have been substantial and comprehensive revisions to the Five-Year
Plan targets during 1977 to help accomplish this. In July, increased targets
for standards of living were announced and in December, following the Eleventh
Conference of the Romanian Communist Party (RCP), revised targets for all other
areas of the Plan were announced. Also, in January 1978 important decisions
were taken to substantially increase work incentives by allowing workers to
participate in sharing the profits of enterprises (see para 20).
16.       According to the revised plan, national income is to grow at 11
percent per annum between 1976-80, practically the same rate as was achieved
between 1971 and 1975. Gross industrial production will increase at 11.5
percent, compared with the original target of 10.2-11.2 percent, while gross
agricultural production is expected to grow at a rate of 6.9-9.0 percent per
annum, which would require a significant improvement over previous results
in that sector. In addition, investment is to increase by 12.7 percent per
annum. A campaign to increase the utilization of existing capacities and



-5-
to make significant economies in the consumption of raw materials and
intermediate goods is being implemented throughout the economy, especially
in the construction sector. As a result, a reduction of lei 109 billion in
investment costs throughout 1976-80 is planned. The volume of foreign trade
is to increase by 109.1 percent in real terms over the five years, a much
faster rate of growth than in 1971-75 when trade merely doubled in current
prices. Furthermore, the Government plans to encourage the growth of exports
so that it exceeds that of imports, to pursue its long-term objective of
reducing its external debt and allowing for the accumulation of reserves.
While the rate of growth of consumption will remain below that of production,
it will nevertheless be increased. Real wages are now to increase by 32.3
percent over the five years compared with the previous target of 22 percent.
As a result, targets for socialist retail trade and services for the popula-
tion have been increased.
17.       The economy was dealt a severe blow on March 4, 1977 when a violent
earthquake occurred in the east of the country, causing severe damage in the
vicinity of Bucharest. The Government estimated that 1,570 people were killed,
11,300 injured and that it caused damage valued at US$2 billion. US$1.4 billion
of the total damage was to buildings and associated utilities, of which US$1
billion was in housing. Of the remaining 30 percent of damage, almost all was
in inventories and production. The earthquake also had a substantial detri-
mental effect on the country's balance of payments' prospects; the net balance
of payments cost is estimated to be approximately US$630 million during 1977
and 1978.
18.       The Government organized immediately an intensive reconstruction
effort with the stated aim of avoiding any impact upon the implementation of
five-year plan targets. This required additional efforts from the population
in the form of labor, e.g. work on one Sunday per month, and money. While
these efforts enabled the economy to continue its growth, 1977 plan targets
were only partially fulfilled. National income increased by 8.6 percent com-
pared to a plan target of 11.3 percent and an increase in the previous year
of 10.5 percent. Industrial production increased substantially more than the
plan target (12.5 versus 10.5 percent). In net production or value added
terms, however, growth was significantly lower, since reductions in production
costs were less than planned and because of the need to make repairs after
the earthquake. For reasons other than the earthquake, chiefly climatic and
management problems, gross agricultural production fell 1.3 percent short
of the 1976 level, and was far below the plan target of 2-4 percent growth.
The gross output of the construction sector rose rapidly; much of the addi-
tional output constituted repairs and the sector provided a relatively large
share of growth in national income. The impact of the earthquake showed up
clearly in the growth rates of investment and trade. The volume of investment
increased by 11.5 percent rather than the 16.7 percent planned, reflecting the
diversion of construction resources and manpower to repair work. The volume
of trade increased in current prices close to that planned (14.8 versus 15.5
percent) but with imports increasing more rapidly and exports less rapidly
than planned.



-6-
19.       Published details on the 1978 Plan indicate growth rates similar to
those planned for 1977. National income is planned to increase by 11-11.5
percent, industrial production by 10.6 percent and agricultural production
by between 6.9 and 16.1 percent. Investment is planned to increase by 16.8
percent and foreign trade by 19.1 percent. Real incomes will increase by
7.9 percent.
20.       In February, 1978 the Government announced changes in economic
and financial mechanisms designed to improve the planning and management of
the economy, to stimulate improvements in labor productivity, in cost reduc-
tion and efficiency of production and also to make existing provisions for
enterprise self-management more effective. The major change announced was
the introduction of net production as a major plan target, both for inducing
enterprises to fulfill plan objectives, particularly in the areas of increased
efficiency and reduction of costs and as the basis upon which worker's wages
and bonuses are paid. In future enterprises are also to retain a higher pro-
portion of profits, have increased responsibility for socio-cultural expendi-
tures, be more concerned in the final stages of the annual plan preparation,
be permitted to enter into longer term contracts to ensure a closer correla-
tion between the plan and actual contract provisions and will have more direct
responsibilities for the achievement of foreign trade targets. These measures
are now under detailed discussion within Romania and are expected to become
law in 1979. It is too early to make a definite judgment, but it does appear
that they are designed to make the existing management and planning system
operate more efficiently rather than to cause radical changes. However, they
are a step in the direction that the basic economic report suggested was
desirable if the economy was to meet its objectives. Furthermore, they will
set up new pressures between the various levels of the economy which may lead
to more substantial changes in the future.
External Assistance
21.       The expansion of Romania's trade with the non-socialist industrial
countries has led to an increased need to obtain convertible currencies to
pay for imports from those countries. Romania has met this need both by
borrowing abroad and by mounting a major effort to expand exports and tourism
to Romania. Gross inflows of convertible currency through medium- and long-
term loans were US$843 million in 1977, consisting mostly of financial and
suppliers' credits with relatively short repayment periods. This gross inflow
represented a net inflow of some US$282 million after accounting for the coun-
try's repayment obligations. There was also a net inflow of US$156 million on
short-term during 1977, the result of the Government's temporary reversal of
its policy to reduce reliance on short-term credits.
22.       As part of its effort to expand its foreign trade and cooperation
relationships, Romania has also taken active steps to attract long-term
private capital. A regulation passed in 1972 defines the conditions under
which foreign firms can establish joint ventures with domestic. enterprises,
preferably in foreign exchange earning or saving industries. As of December
1977, eight joint venture agreements had been signed and two more announced.
In contrast with the earlier ventures, which were of small scale involving



- 7 -
total direct foreign investments of about US$10 to US$15 million, the latest
ventures involve far larger sums. The seventh agreement, signed in early 1977
with Citroen, involves a contract of FF 2.5 billion (about US$500 million) and
will lead to a total capital inflow of aproximately US$250 million. Even
larger inflows are expected as a result of an agreement with Kuwait for the
construction of a petrochemical complex costing US$1.25 billion. Romania also
receives medium-term trade credits from U.S. Eximbank and trades under the
Government guaranteed supplier's credit schemes, ECGD, COFACE, and HERMES with
the United Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic of Germany, respectively.
During 1977, Romania became the first East European recipient of a Japanese
Eximbank loan, receiving US$80 million for the expansion of the port of
Constanta. In 1975 Romania succeeded in securing a US$100 million, eight-year
loan from Kuwait as part of a general cooperation agreement and also a US$420
million loan from Iran on concessionary terms. During 1977, it also negotiated
two Eurodollar loans totalling US$125 million. In January 1978, Romania
negotiated a further US$100 million on the Eurocurrency market and it was
recently announced that the Government has negotiated a new Eurocurrency
borrowing of US$200-300 million. The terms for this eight-year loan, with
four years grace are 0.625 percent above LIBOR for the first three years and
0.750 percent for the remaining years. As part of its strategy to secure
long-term energy supplies, Romania has concluded a long-term contract for
purchase of coal with a United States coal mine; a banking consortium provided
a US$53 million loan to finance the purchase in April 1978. In addition,
Romania has access to non-convertible currency investment credits from the
International Investment Bank, Moscow.
23.       Romania's access to long-term finance in convertible currencies is
still very restricted. The IBRD is the major source of such long-term devel-
opment finance, though Romania is making efforts to improve its access to
financial markets. The Bank's presence on a significant scale would have a
positive influence in this regard and serve to build outside confidence in
the country, thereby enhancing in the long-term its independent access to
the world's financial markets.
Prospects
24.       Romania has good potential for further economic growth.  Endowed
with important natural resources (fuels, some minerals, timber, rich soils
and sources of irrigation water for agriculture, and a favorable climate for
agriculture and tourism) and located conveniently with respect to its major
international markets in the East and West, the country has built a broad
industrial infrastructure (power, metallurgy, chemicals) which will serve as
a base for the expansion of secondary manufacturing sectors such as machine
building and consumer durables. Above all, Romania has a hard-working and
increasingly skilled population. To attain its growth objectives, however,
Romania will have to rely on a major expansion of exports of manufactured
goods in order to finance modern foreign technology and an increasing depen-
dence on imported raw materials and fuel.
25.       Economic growth and structural change call for the introduction of
new technologies, improvements in the quality of products, more efficient
use of materials and factor inputs, and reductions in production costs. The



- 8 -
achievement of export targets requires improvements in the quality of products
and responsiveness to customer demands, areas in which the economy appears
to have lagged in past years. To keep up with these changes and requirements,
large programs of education and manpower training have been mounted, invest-
ments in scientific and technological research have been emphasized, and
efforts are being made to strengthen technical cooperation with industrialized
countries and international organizations. The increasing diversity and com-
plexity of Romania's economic structure also require continuing improvements
in the efficiency of economic planning and coordination and further refine-
ments in economic management.
26.       The growth rate is expected to remain quite high by international
standards and if its present momentum is maintained, Romania will be among
the more developed of the high-income, developing countries in the 1980s.
The Government plans to achieve this high growth rate by emphasizing, first,
the utilization of the country's own resources and a large local investment
effort, and second, more effective use of human, capital and natural resources.
However, in order for Romania to attain its growth targets and its long term
plans for creating.a competitive industrial economy, it will have to attract
foreign resources and technology and secure loans to support its development
efforts.
Creditworthiness
27.       As of December 1977, Romania's total medium and long-term external
debt amounted to US$3,491 million. Most of these debts (US$3,402 million)
were denominated in convertible currencies, the major creditor countries being
the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the United Kingdom (UK) and Italy.
While the total debt does not appear excessive in relation to the volume and
growth of external trade, average maturities are relatively short and con-
vertible debt service payments are estimated to be in the order of US$900
million a year in 1978 and 1979. The convertible debt service ratio was 19
percent in 1977 and is expected to be 18 percent in 1978.
28.       The organization of economic activity in Romania, the pursuit of a
development strategy involving high investment and saving rates, and rapid
income growth ensure the effective use of foreign credits. Moreover, the
country's major efforts to expand exports (particularly to convertible cur-
rency areas) are increasing the foreign exchange available for debt service.
Convertible export earnings rose from US$830 million in 1971 to US$3,403
million in 1977. The preferential trade status accorded to Romania by the
European Community in June 1973 is facilitating the expansion of such exports
as is the granting of most favored nation status by the U.S. Since the early
1970s, the Government has restricted the use of short-term credit from Western
suppliers in an effort to improve the structure of the country's external
debt. In view of the earthquake's impact upon the balance of payments, the
Government indicated that there would be a temporary reversal of this trend
and short-term debt increased again in 1977. Assuming a continuation of
present export and debt management policies, we estimate that the debt service
ratio will be about 20 percent at the end of the 1976-80 plan period, after
which it will remain fairly stable. The country's present outward-looking



- 9 -
posture, the success of both its domestic growth and foreign trade policies,
and its potential for continued development, all support the judgment that
Romania is creditworthy for substantial Bank lending.
29.       When Romania joined the Bank, most pre-war foreign debts of the
country had been settled. Settlements which were still under discussion at
that time concerned claims in the U.K. and in the U.S. With regard to
the settlement of these claims, the final payments of U.S. claims began in
September 1975 and were completed in October 1976 based upon agreements
reached in May 1975. Settlement of the U.K. claims proved more difficult, but
a final agreement was signed in January 1976. The Bank was also informed in
late 1976 of certain Swedish claims concerning public loans from the pre-war
period, nationalized Swedish property and other interests, such as concessions
granted to Swedish companies before the Second World War. The eleventh
meeting to discuss settlement of these claims was held in Bucharest in October
1976 and further discussions were planned at a date to be established through
diplomatic channels. The Bank has been unable to obtain a consistent picture
from the two Governments of the present status of this matter and has, there-
fore, urged the Romanian and Swedish authorities to clarify their respective
positions directly with each other.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
30.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania
to US$882.8 million for seventeen loans in agriculture, industry and power.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation improved considerably during 1976 and 1977. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of September 30, 1978.
31.       Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues
to be a major constraint and one of the major objectives of Bank lending con-
tinues to be to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by
providing long-term external capital and by financing projects which will
expand foreign exchange earnings or savings. Bank lending also aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to introduce new industrial technologies,
to improve the quality of products and production efficiency, to reduce pro-
duction costs and to provide for necessary electric power development. Market
aspects and marketing, especially for export goods, are also emphasized.
Special attention is given to agriculture which is heavily dependent upon
favorable weather and where productivity levels are still comparatively low.
32.       A number of further loans are under consideration.  Projects for
irrigation and drainage, power, poultry production, pig production, horticul-
ture, and a number of industrial projects, have been proposed. The Government
has also requested that the Bank consider lending for a major navigation canal
linking the Danube and Black Sea.



- 10 -
33.       In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting industrial and transportation project appraisal training courses
for 163 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest in 1975, 1976
and 1977. Additional courses, including one in agricultural project appraisal,
are planned. The methodology taught in these courses is becoming more widely
known in Romania and is expected to begin to supplement the methodology
normally used by the Romanian planning authorities.
34.       The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for external
financing and of its total disbursed convertible debt. However, they will
provide a substantial net addition to the inflow of convertible currency
finance, and may set a pattern for obtaining longer-term convertible finance
from other sources.   The disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected
to constitute about 12 percent of Romania's total projected convertible
currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service payments
in 1980 would be about 3 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
Industrial Development
35.       Performance of Romania's industrial sector during the last 25 years
has been impressive, and great efforts have been made to transform a nation
that once specialized in the export of raw materials into a country with a
strong and broad-based industrial sector. Large capital investments, at
annual rates of the order of 28 percent of GNP have been concentrated on basic
and heavy industry, particularly on fuel, electric power, metallurgy, machine
building and chemicals and have resulted in a rapid expansion and diversifica-
tion of industrial output. During the last Five Year Plan gross industrial
output increased by about 85 percent surpassing significantly plan targets.
Growth in the chemical, engineering and metal working, and ferrous metallurgy
sectors has been the fastest with production about doubling in that period.
36.       In the process, the industrial sector of Romania has assimilated in
a relatively short period of time vast amounts of technology and know-how, and
it is asssuming a sophistication with which it is increasingly capable of
solving complex technical problems, and producing products that require a high
degree of technological achievement. One of the comparative advantages of
Romanian industry is its relatively low-cost, skilled and unskilled manpower
supported by well organized training programs.
37.       Industrialization will remain the first priority of development
both in the remaining years of the 1976-1980 Five Year Plan and in the longer
run with output expected to grow at roughly 10 percent per annum until 1990.
While previous growth was often achieved at the sacrifice of quality, efforts
for quality and productivity improvement are more evident now. Internally,
the areas of major emphasis will be manpower planning and development, growth
in technological capabilities, industrial modernization, and central efficiency



- 11 -
auditing. By applying the most advanced methods and by stressing scientific
organization of manpower, substantially more value will be incorporated per
ton of product. The thrust of the sector's development will continue to be
the growth of the chemical, engineering, metal working and ferrous metallurgy
sectors.
Industrial Organization
38.       At present nine industrial ministries are responsible for the indus-
trial sector in Romania. Subordinate to each Ministry are several foreign
trade enterprises, research and design institutes and a number of Centrals,
which in turn direct the activities of a group of related enterprises. The
enterprises, Centrals and Design Institutes, which are not authorized to trade
abroad, conduct their foreign business through the foreign trade enterprise
which normally belongs to the same Ministry. However, as a result of new
economic measures announced in March 1978, some changes may occur (see
para 20).
The Chemical Industry
39.       Hydrocarbons, along with sulfur and industrial salts, have provided
the basis for the development of the chemical industry in Romania.  While
Romania is no longer a significant exporter of basic petroleum products, it
has established a flourishing chemical industry largely based upon domestic
oil and natural gas resources, and has a highly trained workforce on which to
base further development of the sector, as well as considerable experience in
chemical engineering, research and development. Beginning from a relatively
small base in 1950, the chemical industry grew at an average rate of 21 per-
cent per annum from 1950-75.   Growth rates in the past decades have also
been substantial, at about 21 percent for 1965-70 and 16 percent for 1971-75,
with the decline in growth rate reflecting increasing absolute size of the
industry and delays in commissioning new plants. In 1976, the chemical
industry accounted for 12 percent of industrial output (compared with 2.1
percent in 1950) and 8.3 percent of industrial exports (compared with 1.7
percent in 1950). The sector received 14.7 percent of industrial sector
investments during the 1971-1975 Five Year plan period, and 13 percent in
1976. The development strategy for the chemical industry in the future will
continue, as it is, to increase the value added to the country's petroleum
and natural gas resources.
40.       Chemical industry facilities are largely concentrated in the center
and the south of the country, where large refinery and chemical complexes
have been developed around the Ploiesti and Pitesti oil fields to produce a
broad range of refinery products, chemical intermediates and end-products.
The Government is making an effort to locate new plants for production of end
products, such as fertilizers or synthetic products, away from these tradi-
tional industrial centers, partly to promote a balanced regional growth and to
avoid industrial congestion, and partly to take advantage of the availability
of labor.



- 12 -
Methane Gas Processing Industry
41.       Romania has had an established chemical industry since the last
decade of the 19th Century, based on its large petroleum and gas extraction
industry. It is only in the last fifteen years that methane gas processing
has become important, largely as a result of the Government's policies
for the chemical industry and, more generally, for the energy sector.
Accordingly the Government has restricted new gas connections solely to the
chemical industry and is making considerable efforts to diversify primary
fuel sources for industry and electric utilities away from gas, to coal and
lignite. As a result the proportion of methane gas used as feedstock for
the chemical industry has grown rapidly. Production of methane gas (which
accounts for 90 percent of total gas production) is expected to remain at
about the 1975 output figure of 27 million cubic meters over the next ten
years. But, whereas in 1975 only 10 percent of methane gas produced was
used as feedstock, by 1985 this figure is planned to increase to 30 percent.
42.       A second significant trend is the widening variety of uses to
which methane gas is being put. In the 1960s it was used primarily to
produce ammonia for nitrogenous fertilizer production, and carbon black.
Although ammonia production remains predominant, methane gas now is used as
feedstock for a rapidly increasing output of methanol, as well as a widening
variety of specialized chemicals. In 1975, 107,000 tons of methanol and
15,000 tons of specialized chemicals were produced and together accounted
for about 7 percent of total chemical output of 1,663,000 tons from methane
gas. In 1985, however, this proportion is planned to increase to 14 percent
of a total output of 3,501,000 tons the same year.
43.       Although some derivatives of methane can be manufactured by alterna-
tive processes using ethylene as feedstock, these processes are not currently
used in Romania. The one ethylene based complex now operating in Romania
produces a range of other products. It is expected that in the future the
possibilities for increasing the output of methane will remain limited, and
ethylene-based derivatives for most applications are expected to remain
cheaper than methane-based derivatives. Therefore, Romania will have to
begin relying on ethylene-based products derived from imported crude oil
to an increasing extent, and the Government is planning a large new petro-
chemical complex at Midia for production of ethylene-based chemicals. How-
ever, since ethylene-based complexes have to be large to be economic, the
products to be produced by the project are unlikely to be manufactured by
ethylene-based domestic plants due to the small size of the domestic market
for these products.
The Market
44.       The products to be manufactured by the project are methanol, acetic
acid, vinyl acetate monomer (VAM), polyvinyl acetate (PVA), ethyl acetate and
acetic anhydride. All these are intermediates which are used in the manufac-
ture of a wide variety of chemicals, which in turn are further processed



- 13 -
before appearing in products in the capital goods or consumer markets such as
synthetic fibres, water based paints, adhesives and aspirin.
45.       In spite of rapid growth in the last decade, the Romanian domestic
market for chemicals is still relatively small, with per capita consumption
of many end-use products still below that of, say, Western Europe; there is
thus, still room for further growth before parity with more developed countries
is achieved. From 1965 to 1977 domestic consumption of chemicals grew at an
annual rate of 20 percent as the Government sought to establish a basic
chemicals intermediates industry prior to developing end-use industries.
By the early 1970s a market for more sophisticated secondary products such as
PVA was already established. For the chemicals to be produced by the project,
consumption is expected to grow at an annual rate of 16 percent through 1983,
after which plans for new outlets for methanol will accelerate consumption
growth to bring the overall annual growth rate for 1978-85 close to that for
the last decade. The table below summarizes domestic consumption of project
products:
Romania - Consumption of Project Products
(000 tons)
Average Annual
Actual         Projected        Growth Rates (%)
Product              1965  1970   1977   1983   1985   1965-77 1977-83 1977-85
Methanol             21.3  53.3  214.4  572.2  1,096.4   21.2   17.8    22.6
Acetic Acid           6.1  20.1   32.1   74.8        77.3   14.8   15.1    11.6
VAM /1                 -    4.8   17.3   35.0       36.0   20.1   12.5       9.6
PVA 71                 -    2.5   12.8   18.0        20.0   26.3    5.8      5.7
Ethyl Acetate /1      1.1   1.8    3.2    4.8         5.6    9.3    7.0      7.3
Acetic Anhydride /1  0.4   0.4    0.4    5.0          6.6     -    52.3    42.0
/1   Derivatives of acetic acid.
46.       Examination of the Romanian authorities' plans for production,
consumption and export of downstream products has shown that planned domestic
consumption of the output of the project are consistent with the projected
expansion of production and consumption-of end-use products, and are achievable
within the framework of the Romanian economy. Domestic consumption of methanol
for instance is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 18 percent
until 1983, compared with a growth rate of 21 percent which was achieved
between 1965 and 1977. Methanol is used principally in the Romanian market
for the production of synthetic resins, rubber and fibres. Although increases
in the production of all these end-use products are planned, the 1985-projected
per capita consumption will still be below that of Western Europe countries.
Of particular interest is the use of methanol for the production of isoprene
rubber which will form a much higher proportion of total synthetic rubber
production than is the case in the US and Western Europe. Isoprene rubber
will replace most of the requirement for currently imported natural rubber;



- 14 -
the use of isoprene rubber in the manufacture of radial tires is the only
major growth area predicted for synthetic rubbers in western markets in the
future. Another major use planned for methanol is the manufacture of single-
cell protein 1/; by 1985, methanol production capacity in Romania is planned
almost to double over its 1983 level to meet projected requirements for this
use, although methanol produced by the project will all be absorbed into the
domestic market before the single-cell protein project is planned to start-up.
All methanol required for single-cell protein production will come from units
which are outside the project and will be primarily built for that purpose.
However, if problems were to be encountered with the operation of this plant,
large quantities of methanol would be available which would have a major
impact on the domestic and export markets. Further, the commitment of such
a substantial capacity may be considered premature in view of the current
state of technologies for single-cell protein production to be used mainly as
animal feeds. The Government would review its projections for domestic con-
sumption and production of methanol up to 1985 by December 31, 1979 and dis-
cuss the results of this review with the Bank (Section 3.02, Loan Agreement).
47.       Acetic acid and its derivatives are used principally in the Romanian
market for the manufacture of man-made fibres, in paints and lacquers, and raw
materials for adhesives and coatings. Export markets (particularly to COMECON
countries) for these end use products have already been established, and
future plans are aimed at maintaining and expanding these exports, as well
as meeting anticipated increases in domestic consumption of end use products.
Domestic consumption of acetic acid and its derivatives is planned to increase
at an average annual rate of 9 percent from 1977 to 1985, compared with
23 percent in the period between 1965 and 1977.
48.       Export of the project products will take place mainly in the first
years of the project's life; of total production in the first three years of
operation, about one third will be exported; by 1985 only 8 percent of output
will be exported. Almost 40 percent of total export tonnage in the period
1980-1985 is destined for COMECON countries and China, while part of the rest
will be placed in countries outside Europe with which Romania has established
special trading relations; part of the material is planned to be sold in
Western Europe. The three principal export items to Western Europe from
the Craiova project are methanol, acetic acid and vinyl acetate; exports of
each of the other project products is not expected to exceed 2,000 tons per
year (in all cases less than 1 percent of Western European consumption) and
little difficulty is anticipated in disposing of such small quantitites.
Exports of methanol will represent 1.4 percent and acetic acid 1.2 percent of
Western Europe consumption in the peak export year of 1981, while peak vinyl
acetate exports in 1983 will amount to 0.6 percent of Western Europe consump-
tion. Production and consumption of acetic acid in Western Europe have been
1/   Single-cell proteins are microbial proteins for animal, or even human,
consumption and which are produced by microbiological fermentation of
essentially non food materials, e.g., hydrocarbons, petrochemical
products and certain types of waste.



- 15 -
reasonably well balanced with only net marginal import requirements. However,
trading operations have led to both exports and imports of these products to
and from the region and the disposal of the relatively small quantities of
Romanian acetic acid should not be much of a problem.
49.       The future demand and supply situation for methanol is somewhat more
difficult to assess, because structural changes in the supply pattern are
likely to occur. OPEC countries and the USSR are entering the market with
large capacity units and Western European producers are discouraged from
planning any major capacity extensions. Although the output of the USSR
plants will ultimately have a significant effect on the European market, their
effect on export of methanol from the project (which should cease by 1983
because of the growth of the domestic market) are likely to be small, since
these units are not likely to come on stream before the latter half of 1982.
Furthermore, Romanian methanol enjoys a freight advantage over these plants,
which will be situated in the Urals and Siberia. It is likely that from 1980
until the USSR plants reach full capacity operation, there will be a produc-
tion deficit, marginal in 1980 but increasing to perhaps 600,000 tons by 1983.
The disposal of peak exports of 55,000 tons of methanol in 1980 and 1981
should therefore be achievable.
50.       In order to take full advantage of the export opportunities, Romania
needs to improve its export sales organization. Export marketing of Craiova
production will be carried out by DANUBEXIM, a foreign trade enterprise under
the Ministry of Chemical Industry which is currently trading in fertilizers,
explosives, tires, plastics, rubber and fibres. While DANUBEXIM has several
partnerships with distributors in the main European markets, it has limited
market intelligence capabilities. For Craiova products there may well be a
need for some form of technical service to customers. The Government would
review its export marketing development plans up to 1985 for the products to
be produced by the project by December 31, 1979, and discuss the results of
this review with the Bank (Section 3.02, Loan Agreement).
The Borrower
51.       The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for invest-
ment projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including
water resources) and food processing. It has a large technical and economic
staff with branch offices in all districts of the country. The Investment
Bank's involvement in investment projects begins with preparation; its staff
appraises all major investment projects technically and financially, and
recommends for or against financing to the Government. When a particular
project and its financial plan has been approved by the Council of Ministers,
all funds are channeled through the Investment Bank in accordance with the
approved financial plan. All payments for the execution of a project must
be authorized by the Investment Bank, which keeps separate accounts for each
category in the financial plan for every enterprise. It is the Investment
Bank's obligation to ensure that a project is executed according to the
financial and technical data included in the final technical and economic



- 16 -
study, approved by the Council of State. Its inspectors check whether the
project is proceeding according to the schedule approved in the Plan.
52.       While the Investment Bank's supervision and control function is
thus rather strong during implementation of a project, its functions are much
more limited during operation of a project. Although it has the right and
obligation to verify that an enterprise is meeting the targets set in the
investment plan, it has no legal authority to influence directly the manage-
ment of the enterprise or to force the enterprise directly to take operational
actions which it considers necessary. In practice, however, it can request
such actions very effectively by reporting through the Ministry of Finance to
the Government.
53.       The Investment Bank is the channel for all sources of major domestic
investment financing other than in agriculture, but its own funds for onlending
as credits are relatively small. The primary source of its funds is the
state Budget. The Government will ensure the availability of sufficient funds
including foreign exchange requirements for the implementation and operation
of the project (Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement). The Guarantor will also
ensure that the Investment Bank can meet the debt service on the Bank loan
(Section 2.01, Guarantee Agreement). The Government confirmed that the new
economic reforms will not affect the role of the Investment Bank as a relend-
ing institution for Bank funds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       The project was proposed to the Bank in February 1976 as one of
a number of projects for which the Romanians sought Bank financing during
the 1976-80 Five Year Plan. Following preparation of project data requested
by the Bank, it was identified as a project of further interest to the Bank
in May 1976 by a mission which reviewed ten chemical subsector projects.
A preparation mission visited Romania in June 1976 to further discuss the
project. More complete information on the project was received in May 1977,
and a second preparation mission visited Romania in June 1977. The project
was appraised in March and June, 1978, and negotiations were held in Washington
in October 1978. The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. Gheorghe Popescu,
President of the Investment Bank, and included other representatives of the
Investment Bank. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2144-RO of October 30, 1978)
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The Project
55.       The project has three principal objectives.  The first is to divert
about 360 million cubic meters of methane gas from fuel to chemical feedstock
uses, thus increasing the amount of gas processed into chemicals by about
12 percent. This would also diversify the range of products made in the
Craiova Chemical Complex. The second is to transfer new technologies for two
major plants included in the project; the acetic acid and acetic anhydride



- 17 -
plant, and the carbon monoxide separation unit. The third objective is to
make the best use of pre-existing investments at the project location, and the
project's design concept fully takes this into account. Labor, raw materials
and utilities are all available. The project would consist of the installation
of a 30,000 tpy acetylene unit using methane feedstock, which would provide
additional acetylene intermediate to new or expanded downstream units and
would also deliver off-gases for use in the existing ammonia reactor and in
part of the new acetic acid plant. The capacities of the existing vinyl
acetate and polyvinyl acetate units would be expanded and the acetaldehyde
unit would be fully utilized. New units which would be constructed under the
project include methanol, acetic acid, acetic anhydride, and ethyl acetate
plants. A new unit would also be constructed for the separation of carbon
monoxide which would provide CO to the new acetic acid plant and hydrogen to
the existing butanol plant. The project would produce the amounts of chemicals
listed below:
Project Unit Capacities and Net Production Capacities for Sale
(tpy)
Product                       Capacity      Net Production for Sale /1
Acetylene                          30,000                  14,330
Carbon Monoxide (m3/h)              5,000                     -
Methanol                          210,000                 172,200
Acetic Acid                        60,000                  27,946
Acetic Anhydride                   10,000                  10,000
Vinyl Acetate                      20,000                  18,825
Polyvinyl Acetate                  13,000                  13,000
Ethyl Acetate                       8,025                   7,965
/1   Net production for sale to other units of the Craiova complex or outside.
The balance is internally consumed in the project.
56.       The project would be implemented by the Craiova Chemical Complex
(the enterprise), which has long experience of chemical industry operations,
an experienced labor force, and a capable management, led by the Deputy
Manager of the Central. The Industrial Central For Chemical Fertilizers
(CIICh.) is responsible for eleven plants (enterprises) in Romania, including
the project enterprise. The Central's. head office is at Craiova, and its
senior staff, under the Deputy Manager, have responsible executive positions
in the enterprise. In addition the Central will provide all the technical
assistance required to the enterprise, except for technical assistance for the
acetic acid plant, which will be provided by BASF Company of the Federal
Republic of Germany. Under Romanian law, civil works and construction would
be carried out by construction trusts from the Ministry of Industrial Construc-
tion, under the supervision of the Central's Design Institute (IITPIC), and
international procurement would be handled by ROMCHIM (the foreign trade
enterprise of the Ministry of Chemical Industries). These arrangements are
well established under the Romanian system and have worked satisfactorily for
previous Bank projects.



- 18 -
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The total financing required for the project (excluding import
duties and taxes) is US$156.6 million equivalent, with an estimated foreign
exchange component of US$59.7 million. The cost of equipment and materials
to be procured from foreign suppliers has been estimated at the international
prices prevailing in January, 1978. Physical contingencies have been esti-
mated at 3 percent of the base cost. This is considered adequate given the
advanced state of project implementation. Price contingencies on foreign
exchange costs are based on an annual increase of 7.5 percent during the
construction period.  Due to near zero inflation under the Romanian system of
administered prices, price contingencies on local costs have been calculated
at one percent per annum.
58.       The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would finance 67 percent of
the estimated foreign exchange costs of the project. The proposed loan to
the Investment Bank would be for 14 years, including a grace period of 3-1/2
years and would be guaranteed by the Government. It is Romanian practice
for the State to invest virtually all funds in industrial projects through
the Investment Bank without formal onlending agreements, and to recover
investment costs from project beneficiaries through a variety of financial
mechanisms, including net income transfer from state enterprises, taxes and
depreciation payments. For this reason, the Investment Bank would not actually
relend the Bank loan to the project enterprises. However, the enterprise
would be the beneficiary of the Bank loan and its provision of funds to the
State Budget and Investment bank would be sufficient to cover the Lei equiv-
alent of the debt service on the Bank loan, including (notional) payment of
principal plus interest at 10 percent (Section 4.01(b)(iv), Loan Agreement).
This arrangement is in line with our practice in previous industrial projects,
and the Investment Bank would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.
Of the remaining project costs, US$12.9 million of foreign exchange costs
would be financed by a supplier's credit from the Federal Republic of Germany,
and the balance, including an estimated US$5.1 million of interest during
construction, would be financed by the Government. The signing of this
supplier's credit would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Section 7.01, Loan Agreement).
Procurement
59.       Equipment and materials to be financed under the proposed loan
will be procured according to Bank's guidelines in the following manner: (i)
international competitive bidding (ICB) will be used for procuring imported
equipment, materials and the know-how and services connected with such equip-
ment esitmated at US$12.0 million; (ii) US$16.0 million of equipment and sub-
assemblies which will also be subject to ICB and for which qualified Romanian
suppliers exist and may be expected to bid; for these items, Romanian suppliers
will be accorded a preference of 15 percent or the applicable custom duty,
whichever is the lower; (iii) imported long-delivery items available from a
limited number of suppliers and estimated at US$10.0 million may be purchased
through prudent international shopping, subject to prior approval by the Bank



- 19 -
of such procurement procedure and of the list of items involved; and (iv)
imported items costing less than US$100,000 each (and up to a total of US$2.0
million) may be purchased through international shopping on the basis of
suitability, availability, and price considerations, subject to prior approval
by the Bank of the list of items involved. Advance contracting of US$7 mil-
lion for long-delivery items has been incurred in accordance with Bank guide-
lines after the appraisal was started and before the project is presented to
the Board; however, there would be no retroactive financing for this project.
Any change in the list of equipment and services proposed to be financed by
the Bank (Annex to Schedule I, Loan Agreement) would be subject to the prior
approval of the Bank.
60.       The Bank loan is expected to be disbursed over three years for (i)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, materials and
services, (ii) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory for equipment and
sub-assembly items procured from Romanian suppliers following international
competitive bidding.
Environmental Impact and Safety
61.       Potential water pollution arising from organic components in indus-
trial waste water from the Complex would be brought to acceptable levels by
the installation of biological treatment facilities. No problems are antici-
pated with regard to the air pollution levels on account of the technological
process selected. A variety of different chemicals, hot fluids and high
pressure fluids might present a potential hazard if not properly handled.
However, the 6perating standards already employed at the Complex are in line
with up-to-date standards elsewhere in the world resulting in safety records
which are remarkably good. No major hazards are expected with regard to the
oxygen separation plant and acetylene furnaces because of this design and the
installation of proper facilites to avoid any risk of explosion. The engineer-
ing and operational standards adopted on safety were reviewed by a Bank expert
and a consultant, and found satisfactory. The Government has undertaken that
the project facilities will be designed, constructed and operated with due
regard to ecological, environmental, and safety standards (Section 4.01(a)(i),
Loan Agreement).
Benefit and Risks
62.       The project would contribute to meeting Romania's growing demand for
methane based chemical products, and would enable Romania to both earn and
save scarce foreign exchange. The end use products manufactured from the
chemicals to be produced under the project would find a wide range of applica-
tions across Romanian industry, including plastics, paints, varnishes and
man-made fibres. Transfer of technology by the foreign suppliers for the
acetic acid and acetic anhydride plant, and the carbon monoxide separation
unit will also be a benefit to the Romanian chemical industry. The project
would provide employment for about 1,100 people. The estimated economic
return for the project is 16 percent, which is satisfactory. The return is
most sensitive to changes in product prices. If chemical product prices were
to increase by 10 percent, the return would rise to 20 percent, but if they
were to fall by 10 percent the return would decline to 12 percent.



- 20 -
63.       The major risk to the project is that exports may faLll short of
expectations in the initial years of project operat-lon as a result of strong
competition from other suppliers in Western Europe, and EEC tariffs which are
at present equivalent to 10 percent of product prices on average. A second
risk concerns the commercial marketing practices of DANUBEXIM, the export
marketing agency for chemicals. To reduce these risks to an acceptable level,
the Government would review its projections for domestic consumption and
production of methanol up to 1985, and its export marketing development plans
for the products to be produced by the project, both by December 31, 1979, and
discuss the results of these reviews with the Bank. The risk would also be
reduced to an acceptable level by the flexibility in project design, which
enables different production mixes to be undertaken without affecting overall
project profitability or viability. In particular, production of acetic acid
can be substituted for acetic anhydride with almost no effect on the economic
return.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank
of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
66.       The special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that
the signing of the supplier's credit from the Federal Republic of Germany has
taken place (Section 7.01, Loan Agreement).
67.       I am satisified that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 14, 1978
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
RUMIANIA                                                 a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            237.5                                                    SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     149.0                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP We
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  190.0       530.0    1580.0           1898.8      1796.4      2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0       3013.0    3803.0           1869.3     1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        18.4         20.3      21.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 32.0         40.8      43.0             43.0       52.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. XM.                        77.0        85.0      91.0             81.4       27.6         55.8
PER SQ. X0(. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0       136.0     146.0            135.2      116.4         83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         27.9 /f      25.9      25.4             26.2       34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                         64.9 If      65.5      64.8             63.4       56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    7.2 /f      8.6       9.8              9.9        5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0       1.0              0.8        1.6          2.9
URBAN                               3.8         3.4       2.1              2.2        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.9        19.0       19.7            19.2       27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.9         8.9       9.3              9.0        9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.2         1.3        1.3             1.3        1.9          1.6
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..        ..             38.0       19.3*
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              96.2       100.0     146.1            113.7      103.8        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREPENTS)                   105.0       118.0     118.0 /t         127.4      110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           81.0        92.0      90.0 ft          92.8       77.7        89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        24.0        28.0        ..             39.3       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.9 /f      2.4       2.1              1.6        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    65.9         67.7      69.1             68.9       63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            75.7        49.4      34.7             34.5       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POP ULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..             68.3       67.7        83.0
URBAN                                ...                    .74.3                    83.5       100.0
RURAL                                                                     64.4       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..             94.0       70.3        57.8
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..             94.0       90.7        99.3
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             93.0       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            740.0       680.0     620.0            686.5     1310.8       976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      300.0        200.0     180.0           339.0       849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             130.0 /f    120.0     108.0            178.0      275.4       325.8
URBAN                             50.0 /f      50.0      60.0             70.0      129.9       250.0
RURAL                            620.0 /f    770.0      730.0           1770.0      965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        23.0        ..             15.3       18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               *-          3.2f/      ..               ..        3.9
URBAN                                *          2.8 /h
RURAL                               ..          3. 4 /h
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER R0OM
TOTAL                               ..          1.4 /h     ..             0.9        0.9
URBAN                               ..          1.3f/      ..             0.8         0.8
RURAL                               ..          1.4f/      ..             1.0         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         49.0 /h                   57.5       59.2
URBAN                                             0                      990         78.0
RURAL                               ..         27.0h                        .        1.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                       Page  2  of  5  pages
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
ROIMAIA                                                 /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb       REGION jc   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSFTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0       113.0      109.0            108.0       97.6        104.1
FEMALE               95.0        114.0     109.0             99.5        87.4       120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  24.0        45.0       62.0            62.8        47.8         44.7
FEMALE               22.0         38.0      59.0             63.6        42.6        46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 54.0         58.0       70.0             28.2       22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            25.0        21.0       21.0             24.9       25.4         30.6
SECONDARY                          16.0        18.0       19.0             17.3       24.9         16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..           ..      98.0             88.3       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..            90.4        32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        109.0       152.0      145.0            199.0      201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         73.0     127.0            132.5       97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 147.0        169.0     129.0             97.1       70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0          9.8        8.9              6.6        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      9600.0      9900.0   10200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   44.9        44.5       44.6             32.4       17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              65.4         49.0      35.6             32.8       38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.1        23.0       32.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.1         56.0      55.9             39.1       33.7         40.1
MALE                                 64.5         63.3      62.8             56.7       50.8         55.8
FEMALE                               50.1         49.0      49.1             29.7       12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.7          0.7       0.7              0.9        1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             31.9       20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..        ..             59.7       47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..              4.0        3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             12.9       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UTRBAN                               ..           ..
RUJRAL                               ..           ..        ..            194.9      157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            295.1      448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     325.0            309.2      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             18.2       23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     10-20             24.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d   Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  le  High Income  (over $2500 per capita,
1976);   /f  1962;  /a  Av. 1969-71; 1h  1966.
September, 1978



- 23-
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                ANNEX   I
Page 3 of 5 pages
Ha&j:  The adjusted group averages for each- indiostor are population-weighted geometric means, e.ncluding the extreme values of the indiocotr and the moot
popu1ated country in each group,  Coverage of countries smong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Sue to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus oil Exporters and indicatorn of access to water and excreta disposs1, housing, intcome distribution and poverty are
simple popul at ion-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme vslues.
LA.ND AMAE (thousand sq. kin)                                                           Population Par hospital bed - total. urban, and rsral - Population (total,
Total - Total surface ares comprising land area and Inland waters,                        urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
A&rILultural - M..t r recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               available In public xnd private general sod specialized hospital and r-
or permanently for crops, pastures, macbat and kitcher gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                            at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and "ai-
GNP PER CAPITA GIJS$) - GNP per capita estimates at currant market prices,                 cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (hut by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sistant. nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accOomodotion and
1960. 1970, and 1977 data,                                                             provide a limited range of meical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA- Annual consumption of cowAercial energy                     from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent par capita.                   ODUSING
vrge ales of household (nar-on  per household) - total, urban. and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                   antd their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be inicluded in
aeaeof two end-year estimates; 1960. 1970. and 1977 date,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                     hold vary.
tion;, different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persons par room - total. urban. and rural - Average num-
of data song countries,                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Kid-year population por square kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban. and rural -
Par sq. be. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percestage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Chisldrmn (0-14 years), wocking-age
(15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-              EDUCATION
year population.-                                                                   Adlusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - to ta'l. andurb!, - Compound annual                 Primary school - total. and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urben aid-year pouatipns for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as Percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; no rmawlly includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate Cpor thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with univareal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   ratios en~rollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 snd five-year averge ending in 1-975 far meat recent estimate,                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per tho"naad of sid-                   Secondary school - total, and female - Computed an above; secondary educe-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                         vides general vocational, or teacher training Instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average numbe  of daughters a woman will heat                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal naproductive period if she experiences present age-                      excluded.
speci.fic fertility rates; senally five-year averages ending in 1960,                V2otional enrollment  poercenkt of secondary) - vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clods technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planninng - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or a  departments of secondary institutiosn.
acceptors of birth-control. devices under auspices of national family               Pusil-teacher rato-pimy  and secondary - Total students en,rolled in
planoing program.                                                                      priaryan   secodar  I yal  divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family piasniRg - users (percent of married womex) - Percentage of                       sponding levels.
married ..amn of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who .se birth-control              Adult literacy rate (paccet) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
FOOD AND NUTrRITION                                                                   CONS-UMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index nmuser of per                  Paseenaer cars (per thousand population) - Passenkger cars comprise macor cars
capita annual production of all food coemodities.                                    seating less than eight persons; excludes eabulankces, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of nar food supplies available In country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radin
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic productimn. imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicemeed
exports, and changes in stock.  Not supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in, countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in foodprcsig  and Losses In distribution.  Re-                      effect; date for recent years may not be comparable since mast countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering anvironmsentel toWerature, body                 TV raceiveru (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to Sener&t
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public par thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV rece.ivers in noun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of pr1otein (a:roa Per day) - 1rotein content of per                  esppr circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the avrage circula-
capita net supply of fodprdY.  Hot supply of food is defined as                        tion of "daily general interest newspaper"', defined as a Periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general nwew.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protelin per day and 20 grmam                 be "daily" if it appears at least four timas a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinem  annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These at.ndarda  are lower than those of 75 geems of total protein and                 sold during the year. including admissions to drive-in cin .... an d mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    unite..
PAO in the Third World Pond Survey.
Per caepita poteinosuaply from  nimal nd pulse - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from  animals and pulses in gram  per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including  armed!
Child Omases 1-4) mortality rate (per thouaemd) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces end unmployed but excluding housewives, stodents, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yearsr, to children in this age group.                            tione in various countries are not comparable.
Pmalel (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percemntae of total labor forc.,
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960. 1970.                Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, constmuctIon, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water end gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant maortality rate (por thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under,               Participation rate Ceercext) - total. male. aed female - Total. male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              'emale labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (Percent of pulto)-total. urban. aed rural -                         Thease are TLO.' adjusted participatiom  rates reflecting sue-sen
Number of people (total, urban, Emd  url) wih reas ona.ble access to                    structore of the popoistion. .nd toutrime trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 tcouomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated waetr such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary cells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or  cstmdpost located not mare                  INCOM DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as beitng within rea-                Parcentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that hos . I  rural Arsereasona.ble access. woulId                    Perccant, richest 20 percent, pooret 20 peccant, and poorest i0 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the househldJ do not have to                     of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching tha family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Accee s to excrete dispc,a.l (Percent of population) - totaLl. urban. and              Estimated absolute poverty incou* level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural-
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                      Absolute -poverty income level Is that income-level below  which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations .  Excrete                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements in not
disposal na-y include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment , 01 humen excrete and casts-water by water-borne systems                 Estimeted relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) -uban and rural-
or the .uc of pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income levells  tha  one-third
PoPulation per physician - Population divided by nzber of practicing                      per capita personal incomme of the country.
physicians qualified fr.on a medical school at university level.                     Estimated population below pov.rty incme level (percent) - urban and rural-
Population per nursing person - Population divided by pusher of                           Percent of population (urban and rural) who sre either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                       "relative poor" whichever is greater.
Economic and Social Data Division
Econtomic Analysis and Projections Department



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONCMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTj  (% constant prices)
US$ Min.    7%           1961-65        1966-70        1971-75        1975-77
GNP at Market Prices                        30,300        100.0         9.O/           7.71k         11.31'         9.61/
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment              8,463         27.9        11.3           11.2           11.2           9.9
Gross National Saving                        8,157         26.9         ..
Current Account Balance                       -306          1.0          ,                               2/3/
Export of Goods, NFS                         7,523         24.8         9O2           123/           23 6- -       14;723/
Imports of Goods, NFS                        7,537         24.9        1O:72/3/       12:7!/h/       22.32/-/      14.J/3/
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
National Income 4/      Labor Force            N.I. Per Worker
US$ Bln.         %      Mtn                    us U  $        %
Agriculture                                   3.29        13.2       3.53    34.4            932         38.3
Industry                                     13.22        53.0      3.36    32.7           3,935        161.7
Constru tion                                  2.33         9.3      0.90      8.8          2,589        106.4
Other J                                       6.12        24.5      2.47    24.1           2,478        101.8
Total/Average                         24.96       100.0      10.26   100.0           2,433        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1977
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                                 282.0             46.2
Total Expenditures                             280.4             45.9
Total Surplus                                    1.6              0.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1971      1972        1973        1974        1975        1976      1977
Money Supply                                  ..        ..         ..         160.1       176.4       201.4     207.5
Short-tern Bank Credit                                  ..        131.3       155.3       170.2       194.0     194.5
Retail Prices (1970 = 100)                  101.6     101.6       102.4       103.7       103.9       104.4     105.0
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices           1.6       -           0.8         1.3         0.2         0.5       0.5
1/ Growth rate of national income.                                                EMENA CPlD
2/  In current prices.
3/  Growth rates of exports and imports only.                                     November 1, 1978
_/  System of material production methodology,
5/  Includes net output of the non-productive sector,



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS  (Convertible Currencies)                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1977
(All Currencies)
1971       1976          1977
(Millions US $)                                  US $ Mln       %
Exports of Goods & NFS                  +944       +3,653        3,983   Capital goods               1,878      27
Imports of Goods & NFS                  -988        -3,592       4,080   Consumer goods              1,167      17
Resource Gap (deficit   -)               -44           +61          -97   Foodstuffs                   910      13
Intermediate goods          596        9
Interest Payments                        -40          -122         -195   Raw materials              2,479      35
Other Factor Payments (net)              -25           0            +19     Industrial               2,066      29
Balance on Current Account              -109           -61         -273     Agricultural               413       6
Direct Foreign Inv stment                                                       Total                7,031     100
Net MLT Borrowing I
Disbursements                      +312          +912          928          EXTERNAL DEBT (Dec.31. 1977)
Amortization                        -190         -482         -561
Subtotal                           +122          4430         +367                                  US $ Mln
Export Credits ExtendedV/ (net)            2/         -274         -171
Short-term Credit (net)                  -20           -44        +156   Total M & LT                     3,491
Net Errors & Omission                      -            -            -      of which convertible
Increase in Reserves (+)                  -7          +52          +32      currencies                    3,402
Fuel & Related Materials
Imports                               635.6      2,496.8      2,622.1          DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1977
of which Petroleum
Exports                               425.5      1,477.5      1,463.0                                   %
of which Petroleum                  142.9
Convertible currencies only 19.0
EXCHANGE RATES
1. Official Rate
Before August 1971              6 lei:US$l
August 1971-February 1973        5.53 lei:US$l
February 1973-March 1978        4.97 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                4.47 lei:US$1
2. Tourist Rate
Before August 1971              18 lei:US$1
August 1971-February 1973       16 lei:US$1
February 1973-October 1974      14.38 lei:US$l
Since October 1974              12 lei:US$l
3.  Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973 - March 1978          20 lei:US$l
Since March 1978                18 lei:US$l
EMENA CPID
1/  Includes use of IMF credit.                                      November 1, 1978
2| Included in M & LT Capital.
3/ Includes S, M & LT credits extended.



ANNEX II
- 26-                           Page 1 of 4 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of September 30, 1978)
US$ Million
Loan                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number         Year    Borrower           Purpose          Bank    TW    IDA    Undisbursed
One loan fully disbursed                                    20.0
Ln. 1020-RO    1974    Investment Bank   Fertilizer         60.0                      11.5
Ln. 1027-RO    1975    Investment Bank   Special Steel   70.0                          9.4
Ln. 1028-RO    1975    Investment Bank   Thermal Power   60.0                          0.9
Ln. 1082-RO    1975    BAFI a/             Irrigation       70.0                .      57
Ln. 1083-RO    1975    BAFI               Agricultural    30.0                         T 5
Credit
Ln. 1169-RO    1976    BAFI                Flood Recovery  40.0                        3,2
Ln. 1242-RO    1976    Investment Bank   Hydropower        50.0                       27.4
Ln. 1247-RO    1976    BAFI                Irrigation       60.0                      40.9
Ln. 1368-RO    1977    BAFI                Irrigation      60.0                       50.3
Ln. 1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank   Bearings           38.0                      38.0
Ln. 1447-RO    1977    Investment Bank   Glass Fiber       18.3                       13.3
Ln. 1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank   Polyester         50.0                       344
Ln. 1479-RO    1978    BAFI               Agricultural    71.0
Credit      .                             59.4
Ln. 1509-RO    1978    BAFI                Irrigation      40.5                       40.5
Ln. 1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank   Tire              85.0                       85.0
Ln. 1581-RO   1978    Investment Bank  Post                 60.0                      60.0
Earthquake
Total                             882.8                      487.4
Of which has been repaid            -
Total now outstanding             882.8
Amount sold           18.6           -
Of which repaid        0.0         18.6
Total now held by Bank-b/         864.2
Total undisbursed                 487.4                      487.4
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
b/ ,'xeluding exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                       Page 2 of 4 pages
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
LN No. 1020    Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays due
to changes in site and project scope, and delays in design and construction.
About 85 percent of total procurement has been completed, and construction
is well advanced. The ammonia and the DAP plants are expected to be commis-
sioned by the end of 1978, and the urea plant by the second quarter of 1979,
about 18 months later than expected. The final project cost is expected to
be close to the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1027    Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed nearly a year, primarily be-
cause of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. Progress on
procurement has been closely monitored by several Bank supervision missions.
The contracts for the two steel mills under the loan have been signed and
construction is progressing in accordance with contracted schedules. Total
project costs are expected to be slightly below appraisal estimates, but this
is not expected to affect disbursement of the loan which is now fully com-
mitted for two main supply contracts. The project is now expected to be
completed in August 1979.
Ln No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of
July 10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment are
likely to result in a nine month delay in commissioning of generating units.
Project execution is otherwise according to plan and satisfactory. Training
of future operational staff is in hand.
Ln No. 1082    Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation Project; US$70 Million Loan
of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Construction of project works is progressing satisfactorily and
about 85 percent of the project has been completed. Procurement is 93 per-
cent completed. About 67 percent of the project area has been irrigated by
June, 1978. All remaining works are expected to be completed by December,
1978. Total project costs are expected to be about US$33 million less than
appraisal estimates, and about US$4 million of the loan amount is expected
to be cancelled if not required for the project before the closing date.



-28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Ln No. 1083    Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit               1 S530 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:  April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
A contract for the pre-mix feed mill has been concluded and remaining project
procurement, for chemicals and fertilizers, is being carried out under bulk
contracts tendered internationally for 1978 Romanian requirements. Disburse-
ments amounted to US$21.1 millior. as of June 30, 1978 and are 12 percent ahead
of the appraisal estimate.
Ln No. 1169    Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40 Million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: December 2,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Project execution is proceeding well and disbursements are on
schedule. Equipment procured under international competitive bidding has
been delivered and'only small quantities of spare parts remain to be procured.
Bids were received in March 1977 for flood early warning system equipment.
The Romanians advised us that bid evaluation was delayed because of the tech-
nical complexity of the package, but the bid evaluation report has been sub-
mitted to the Bank, approved by the Bank, and the contract has been signed.
Ln No. 1242    Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million Loan of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed
and mechanized excavation methods are expected to be introduced in early 1979.
Project execution is currently about one year behind schedule. Civil works
for the dam and underground power station are well underway, and about 75
percent of the loan amount has been committed.
Ln No. 1247    Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development Project;
US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project
works is well underway and progress on these facilities is satisfactory.
Twenty four thousand ha have been brought under irrigation during 1978, one
year ahead of schedule. Facilities for four dairy farms are complete and
contracts for purchase of about 4,600 imported heifers (50 percent of total)
valued at over US$3 million have been awarded. Procurement contracts for all
equipment, except canal lining equipment, have been awarded.
Ln No. 1368    Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, :1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement for this project has been consolidated with that for the
Rasova-Vederoasa Project (Ln. 1247) noted above, and all contracts have already



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
been awarded, except those for tile laying machines and canal lining machines,
which are expected to be awarded shortly. Construction of some project works
is underway and progress is satisfactory.
Ln No. 1436    Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Initial bids on major bid packages have been received and procurement
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1447    Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.3 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement has been completed, and execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1448    Cimpulung, Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The main supply contract has been signed, and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln No. 1479    Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. BAFI has made
subloan commitments of US$114.5 million or 36 percent of total project costs.
Ln No. 1509    Viisoara Irrigation Project; Us$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan was signed on January 27, and became effective on May 15,
1978.
Ln No. 1536    Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This loan was signed on March 30, and became effective on June 9,
1978.
Ln No.          Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This loan was signed on June 12, and became effective on September 5,
1978.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
ROMANIA - CRAIOVA CHEMICAL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare          Two years
project:                                      (February 1976 - February 1978)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project             Ministry of Chemical Industry
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of Bank mission to
consider the project:                        February 1976, June 1976
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal                March 1978
Mission:
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:           October 6, 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                March 12, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is that
the signing of the supplier's credit from the Federal Republic of Germany has
taken place (paras. 58 and 66).
Other Special Conditions are:
(a)  The Investment Bank will cause a review of the Government's
projections for domestic consumption and production of
methanol up to 1985, and of its export marketing develop-
ment plans for the products to be produced by the project,
both by December 31, 1979 and to discuss the results of
these reviews with the Bank (paras 46 and 50).
(b)  The Craiova Chemical Complex will ensure that it will operate
the project facilities with due regard to ecological, environ-
mental and safety factors (para. 61).



I BRD- 13591
g   I  z  W 0 i s e g S ~I.                                 (  23i\t
z~~~~ 
U_X< ff   i    fit<O           
ct- U~~~~~-. 
JO           | ( t i   Y    6                           2   )            |        j               2
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
MAY 1978



