                       PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                        July 14, 2011
                                                                                 Report No.: AB6712
                                                  (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                        Second Programmatic Debt and Fiscal Sustainability Development
                                      Policy Loan (FSDPL2)
Region                                LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Country                               Jamaica
Sector                                Central government administration (68%);Health (8%);General
                                      finance sector (8%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                                      (8%);General education sector (8%)
Operation ID                          P123241
Lending Instrument                    Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                           GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA
                                      Ministry of Finance and Public Service
                                      30 National Heroes Circle, PO Box 512
                                      Jamaica
                                      Tel: (876) 932-5434     Fax: (876) 924-9291
                                      courtney@mof.gov.jm
Implementing Agency                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC SERVICE
Date PID Prepared                     July 14, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal           July 21, 2011
Estimated Date of Board               September 8, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision             Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed
                                      with the preparation of the operation.

I.      Country and Sector Background
Jamaica is a small open economy with good social indicators. It is the largest English-speaking country in
the Caribbean with a population of about 2.7 million and per capita income of $4,999 (Atlas method,
2009 prices). Life expectancy is high at 73 years and poverty reached a low of 9.9 percent of population
in 2007, although poverty spiked in 2008-2009 due to the severe economic contraction following the
global crisis. Despite a number of advantages—including rich natural resource endowments, close
proximity to the USA (its largest trading partner), and high levels of private investment—the country
faces major challenges from low growth, vulnerability to natural disasters, and high debt.
Low growth despite high rates of investment has been a major challenge for Jamaica. Real GDP per
capita grew just 0.5 percent per year since the 1970s, despite total fixed investment averaging 25 percent
of GDP during 1960-2008, above the average for Latin America (20 percent) and comparable to fast-
growing East Asia (28 percent). A new World Bank study has identified low productivity due to crime,
human capital deficiencies, and fiscal distortions as the main reason behind the slow growth.
Vulnerability to natural disasters and climate change has been a second major challenge. The coastal zone
in Jamaica is home to two-thirds of the population and an estimated 75 percent of industries, critical
infrastructure and service sector, which altogether account for 80-90 percent of GDP. These assets and the
production capacity are frequently threatened by natural disasters and climate change. For example, the
2007 Hurricane Dean left J$23.8 billion in damages while the 2008 Hurricane Gustav caused losses of
J$15.2 billion.
Finally, high debt is another important constraint for Jamaica which has been among the most indebted
countries in the world for more than two decades. The public sector debt-GDP ratio has averaged over
100 percent from FY1990/91 to FY2007/08. The debt was reduced to 80 percent of GDP in FY1996/97
through a concerted effort of sustained fiscal surpluses but rose thereafter due to the 1996 financial crisis
and the Government’s subsequent decision to bail out all depositors with an estimated cost of 40 percent
of GDP. After peaking at 125 percent of GDP in FY2002/03, the debt started to decline and reached 114
percent of GDP by FY2007/08. Since then, the adverse impacts of the global crisis caused the debt,
including contingent liabilities, to rise to 139 percent of GDP by FY2010/2011.

II.       Operation Objectives

The proposed operation builds on the progress made under the Bank’s previous Fiscal and Debt
Sustainability DPL (January 2009) and the First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability DPL (FSDPL1,
February 2010). The reform program supported by the proposed DPL is the manifestation of the Jamaican
Government’s strategy to increase fiscal and debt sustainability, improve macroeconomic stability, and
accelerate growth. The Government of Jamaica (GoJ) has made significant progress towards achievement
of its objectives in three areas, despite the difficult external environment and the slow pace of recovery
from the adverse effects of the global crisis.

The Program Development Objectives are to:

•     Enhance fiscal and debt sustainability, by supporting reforms to increase control on public spending
      and debt generation, reduce debt service burden and improve debt management, reduce financial
      vulnerabilities, and increase public spending effectiveness.
•     Increase the efficiency of public financial management and budgeting processes, by supporting
      efforts to improve the efficiency of public expenditure and investment, and strengthen control of
      public finances and the effectiveness of government budgeting practices.
•     Improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the tax system, through reducing the use of fiscal
      incentives and increasing the uniformity of the tax code, improving client services for tax payers,
      broadening the tax base, and simplifying tax payments.

Specific prior policy actions supported by the FSDPL2 include:

•     The Borrower’s legislature has enacted: (i) the Financial Administration and Audit Amendment No.
      2 Act (Act 5 of 2010), dated March 22, 2010 which amends the Financial Administration and Audit
      Act to, inter alia, ensure accountability for applying principles of prudent fiscal management; and (ii)
      the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Amendment Act (Act 7 of 2010), dated March 22,
      2010 which amends the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act to, inter alia, increase the
      transparency and comprehensiveness of data on fiscal operations presented to the Borrower’s
      legislature; all for purposes of introducing into said legislation a fiscal responsibility framework
      which is being implemented by Borrower, as evidenced by the submission to the Borrower’s
      legislature of a fiscal policy paper on April 28, 2011.
•     The Borrower, through the Ministry of Finance and Public Service (MoFPS), has submitted on July
      12, 2011, to the Borrower’s legislature for approval a new public debt management law, for purposes
      of: (i) consolidating the existing legal and regulatory framework related to debt management; (ii)
      introducing modern debt management practices (including the establishment of a high level Public
      Debt Management Committee); and (iii) ensuring prudent management of government guarantees and
      contingent liabilities.
•   The Borrower has started to implement a time-bound action plan for purposes of strengthening the
    institutional and technical capacity of the Debt Management Unit, including: (i) the establishment of a
    new functional organization structure with front, middle and back offices, as evidenced by the
    corresponding Borrower’s Cabinet decision; and (ii) the development of a medium term debt
    management strategy, as evidenced by the submission to the Borrower’s legislature of said strategy
    on April 28, 2011 and published on MoFPS’ website
    (http://www.mof.gov.jm/budget/fiscal_policy/FY%202011-2012).
•   The Borrower has continued to implement the plan to achieve the rationalization of Public Bodies, as
    evidenced by the divestiture of: (i) Air Jamaica; (ii) three sugar estates (Monymusk, Frome, Bernard
    Lodge); and (iii) the Pegasus Hotels of Jamaica.
•   The Borrower, through MoFPS, has completed employment surveys (censuses) for all non-self
    financing (fully-funded and partially funded) Public Bodies.
•   The Borrower has implemented a new methodology for evaluating capital investments in six pilot line
    ministries (MoFPS, Ministry of Transport and Works, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health,
    Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Ministry of National Security), as evidenced by the
    inclusion in the Budget Call 2011/2012 Financial Year (No. 907/120) dated January 28, 2011, of
    processes to be followed for the purposes of prioritizing the investment program.
•   The Borrower has introduced the medium term expenditure framework in six pilot line ministries
    (MoFPS, Ministry of Transport and Works, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of
    Agriculture and Fisheries, and Ministry of National Security), as evidenced by: (i) the submission to
    the Borrower’s legislature of the fiscal policy paper on April 28, 2011 including a fiscal
    responsibility statement outlining how fiscal targets will be achieved; and (ii) the inclusion in the
    Budget Call 2011/2012 Financial Year (No. 907/120) dated January 28, 2011, of the key elements of
    the decision processes for the medium term expenditure framework including budget ceilings and
    procedures for decisions on medium term priorities.
•   The Borrower has continued to implement a uniform tax code, as evidenced by: (i) the Borrower’s
    Cabinet Decision (No. 28/2010) dated July 21, 2010; (ii) further measures issued by the MoFPS dated
    November 15, 2010 and published on MoFPS’ website on November 15, 2011 on the MoFPS’
    website (www.mof.gov.jm/pressreleases), all for the purposes of instituting interim measures, inter
    alia, freezing the issuance of new statutory waivers and reducing the issuance of discretionary
    waivers by the MoFPS until the new tax waiver/incentive policy and strategy is adopted by the
    Borrower.
ƒ   The Borrower’s legislature has approved the consolidation of the departments of Inland Revenue,
    Taxpayer Audit and Assessment, and Tax Administration Services into a single tax administration
    department called Tax Administration Jamaica, as evidenced by the enactment of the Revenue
    Administration (Amendment) Act (No. 11/2011) dated April 1, 2011; and (ii) The Borrower has
    prepared a detailed restructuring plan for implementing the legislated changes in the Revenue
    Administration (Amendment) Act (No. 11/2011).
ƒ   The Borrower has continued to implement a simplified process for paying taxes and improving tax
    collection efficiency and client services, as evidenced by: (i) the implementation of the first phase of
    the amalgamation of payroll taxes, which consolidates five payment checks and five forms for five
    different taxes into one payment check and one form, as evidenced by the issuance of the Income Tax
    (Amalgamated Payroll Remittance) Regulations (No. 133) effective as of November 15, 2010; the
    creation of client services units in large taxpayer offices to establish a one-stop shop for all tax
    payments (including providing 14 different services to large taxpayers and covering 149 of the 473
    large taxpayers in the Borrower’s territory); and (iii) the extension of online tax filing and payment to
    all taxpayers and to all tax instruments, as evidenced by the creation of a website for purposes of
    online tax filing and payment (http://www.jamaicatax-online.gov.jm/).
Some key expected outcomes of the FSDPL2 include:

ƒ      The FY2011/12 budget process is developed within the Fiscal Responsibility Framework (FRF) and
       is bound by the FRF’s medium term targets for debt creation and the overall fiscal deficit;
ƒ      A detailed borrowing plan is developed by the Debt Management Unit, which fully operationalizes
       the Medium Term Debt Management Strategy; and quantitative limits on instruments and lenders are
       established in line with the overall budget ceiling established by the FRF;
ƒ      The Government has fully implemented the new methodology for evaluating capital investments in
       six pilot ministries;
ƒ      The six pilot Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) have submitted their MTEFs;
ƒ      Improved PEFA rating of “Collection of tax payments” to B in FY2010/11 from a baseline of: D+ in
       2007/08.

III.      Rationale for Bank Involvement
Two interrelated and critical development challenges for the Government of Jamaica (GoJ) are (i)
achieving fiscal and debt sustainability; and (ii) laying the foundation for inclusive and sustained growth
over the medium term. To this end, the Government has articulated an ambitious long-term strategy,
Vision 2030, and an associated Medium-Term Socioeconomic Policy Framework (MTF, FY09-12) with
intermediate steps that will support the longer term vision. Although the economic environment is
fundamentally different from when the process began four years ago, the broad thrusts of the articulated
strategy remain valid. Vision 2030 aims at shifting the economy from one based exclusively on exploiting
“basic factors” – sun and sand tourism, mineral deposits and basic agricultural commodities – to one that
is increasingly based on cultural, human, knowledge and institutional capital to take the country to OECD
standards of living. The medium-term strategy identifies six national outcomes and five supporting
national outcomes. There is full alignment of the MTF with Vision 2030 Jamaica and the six Priority
National Outcomes for MTF 2009-2012 are (i) security and safety; (ii) a stable macroeconomy; (iii)
strong economic infrastructure; (iv) energy security and efficiency; (v) world class education and training;
and (vi) effective governance.
The Government’s reform program is an outcome of extensive consultations with stakeholders. Through
the PIOJ, the Government has undertaken a broad consultation process on its long-term development
plan—Vision 2030 National Development Plan, tabled in Parliament in May 2009—which incorporates
many of the reforms supported by the DPL series. Vision 2030 was publicly announced and consultations
have taken place throughout the country with various target groups including youth and community
groups, special interest groups, and the emigrant Diaspora (via the web). The Public Sector
Transformation Unit program incorporates a well-structured consultative process. The governance
structure of the transformation project includes a Sub-Committee of the Cabinet chaired by the Prime
Minister, to approve, give direction and oversight to the restructuring of the Public Sector, and the
Consultative Monitoring Group (CMG) comprising representatives of Government, private sector, trade
unions, academia and the Opposition to review the strategies being pursued by the PSTU and monitor
their implementation. Implementation and change management “transition” teams have been formed in
each MDA to assist their colleagues to grasp all of the critical issues. Privatization and debt management
reforms of the government benefited from consultations with the Jamaican public sector, senior private
sector leaders, International Financial Institutions, the Commonwealth Secretariat and UK Debt
Management Office.
The GoJ reform program builds upon the measures implemented in the last two years and also supported
under the previous DPL operations. The GoJ reform program is expected to provide long-term solutions
to the problems that have contributed to fiscal slippages and debt accumulation in the past. New measures
taken under the GoJ program solidify the milestones achieved and include key policy actions required to
maintain the reform momentum and achieve fundamental changes in the public sector. The
implementation of the FRF, major debt reforms, divestiture of large loss-making Public Bodies, and
improvements in public financial management and tax policy and administration build on the momentum
of the adoption of FRF, JDX, the initiation of a public sector reform plan, and strengthening tax revenue
and collection.
The reform program supported by the proposed FSDPL2 is expected to establish a strong foundation for
growth-oriented reforms envisioned by the GoJ in the medium term. The main—but not the only—focus
of the reform program supported by the current DPL series is fiscal sustainability, reflecting both the
reform priorities of the Government and the most pressing/urgent needs at the time of the DPL series was
designed. The policies supported by the current DPL series can be largely thought of as so-called
“numerator” policies, designed to address major sources of fiscal vulnerability and stabilize the debt
dynamics. However, the DPL program also includes reforms in the area of tax policy and tax
administration, designed to improve the business environment and stimulate growth. In addition, reforms
supported under FSDPL1—in particular, the JDX—have already removed an important impediment to
growth by lowering the high cost of debt servicing which was severely constraining the fiscal space.
Finally, with the completion of major parts of the fiscal and debt reform agenda under the proposed
FSDPL2, the GoJ can turn its focus in the coming fiscal year more squarely towards reforms which could
promote growth more directly.
The IFIs coordinate closely on their support to the reform program of the GoJ. The reform actions
supported by this DPL are complemented by the IMF SBA and the public sector reform programs of the
IDB. Given the critical importance of debt and fiscal issues, these themes are common across the
structural benchmarks of the IMF and the prior actions of the Bank and the IDB. There is full alignment
between the Program Matrix of this DPL and the PBL of the CDB. There is a division of labor among the
institutions to ensure complementarity. As part of this coordination, the World Bank, the IMF and the
IDB had joint missions for reforming debt management in May and October 2010. The World Bank is
also coordinating with the IFIs in the phasing of disbursements and in the sequencing of the policy
actions. This coordination is important to ensure that the Government’s financial needs are met in a
timely manner while reform momentum is maintained. The main synergies between the policy reforms
supported by the IFIs are:
ƒ     Implementation of a Fiscal Responsibility Framework;
ƒ     Public Sector Rationalization;
ƒ     Improving Efficiency of Public Expenditure Management and of Tax Policy and Administration;
ƒ     Strengthening of Debt Management; and
ƒ     Strengthening internal and external controls.

IV.      Tentative financing

Source:                                                                                   ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                     0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                                      100
                                                                           Total           100

V.       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The proposed financing, amounting to US$100 million, will be available for disbursement upon
effectiveness. The disbursement arrangements will follow OP8.60. Loan proceeds will be disbursed
against satisfactory implementation of the development policy program. Once the Loan is approved by
the Board and becomes effective, the proceeds of the Loan will be deposited at the request of the
Recipient by the World Bank in a Foreign Currency Deposit Account (FCDA) designated by the
Recipient and acceptable to the Bank. The Recipient will ensure that upon the deposit of the Credit into
the account, an equivalent amount in local currency is credited in a Local Currency Deposit Account
(LCDA), in a manner acceptable to the Bank at the Bank of Jamaica (BoJ). The Recipient will report to
the Bank on the amounts deposited in the foreign currency account and credited in local currency to the
LCDA. The administration of this Credit will be responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The Bank will
reserve the right to request an audit of the designated account by an independent firm of auditors and in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to it. In addition, the BoJ shall maintain an appropriate
accounting system in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
The Bank would disburse the loan proceeds into an account of the Central Bank of Jamaica denominated
in US dollars. The Central Bank of Jamaica will immediately credit the disbursed amounts to the account
of the Ministry of Finance and the Public Service, thus becoming available to finance budgeted
expenditures. Within a week of this funds transfer, the Ministry will accordingly provide the Bank with a
written confirmation.
The Ministry of Finance and the Public Service will play the primary role in coordinating monitoring and
evaluation of program implementation. The government and the Bank will take advantage of several
important data sources to assess progress of the DPL, including:
ƒ     Central and nonfinancial public sector budget monitoring from the Ministry of Finance and the Public
      Service
ƒ     Statistical Institute of Jamaica
ƒ     Central Bank of Jamaica reports and analysis
ƒ     Reviews and analyses of laws and implementing regulations by the Bank and other stakeholders
ƒ     Data from key Government agencies such as PIOJ and the Auditor General
ƒ     Financial audits and follow up of CPAR and CFAA recommendations
ƒ     Bank, CDB, IDB and IMF supervision missions and reports. Jamaica is under intensified surveillance
      from the Fund which produces a bi-annual staff report that assesses its economic and financial
      stability. The World Bank has been closely coordinating with the Fund on its monitoring of the
      economic and financial situation.

VI.       Risks and Risk Mitigation
The reform program of the Government of Jamaica, to be supported by the proposed FSDPL2, faces four
types of significant risks: economic, political, institutional, and natural disasters. These risks must be
weighed against the substantial benefits of assisting in the creation of fiscal space in Jamaica to support
the Government reforms necessary for achievement of long-term development objectives.
 Economic: The recovery from the global financial crisis has been slower than anticipated and real GDP
growth is expected to be modest in the medium term. Although fiscal and debt sustainability have been
substantially improved through reforms supported under FSDPL1, slower recovery or adverse shocks to
growth could weaken fiscal balances and reduce the ability of the Government to push ahead with critical
medium term reforms. For example, the Government has already decided to postpone some reforms—
such as the proposal to lower corporate income taxes to 25 percent, in line with the personal income tax
rate—due to concerns over revenue generation in the current environment. In addition, measures such as
the public sector wage freeze cannot be maintained for a prolonged period and will require structural
changes to ensure the sustainability of the wage bill.
Monitoring and mitigation: Since Jamaica is vulnerable to external shocks, prospects for mitigation are
limited. However, following the JDX and the Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) with the IMF, a number of
external vulnerabilities have been significantly reduced. Risks of fiscal slippages are reduced through the
periodic reviews of the SBA. The Bank and DFID are supporting a multi-year, comprehensive
restructuring of debt management in line with international best practice. The Bank participates in
ongoing macro-monitoring and country dialogue and stands ready to adjust the program to mitigate risks
as much as possible. Other development partners are active in Jamaica with sizeable portfolio and
resources for on-demand technical assistance. The wage freeze is meant a stop-gap measure while the
envisioned comprehensive HR reform is being prepared and implemented.
Political: The current government came into power in the fall of 2007, but it has had a small majority in
Parliament, making the Government’s program vulnerable to special interests. Political opposition may
delay implementation of reforms. Although new elections are not due until 2012, it is possible that
elections could take place at an earlier date. If political pressures were to increase, the Government may
postpone necessary but potentially unpopular measures which could jeopardize sustainability of the fiscal
consolidation. Certain discretionary actions, such as the Cabinet Decision to limit the use of tax waivers
and incentives, could be also reversed at a later date due to political pressures. In addition, with the
expiration of the wage freeze in 2012, the Government could face pressure for compensatory wage
increases. Finally, the recent security episode has highlighted the sometimes fragile nature of the social
compact in the country and the need for a long-resolution to the security and governance challenges.
Mitigation: The political risk is reduced by the Government’s consultative approach to reform
implementation and the dialogue among country stakeholders on the fiscal and economic costs of
inaction. In particular, there is broad agreement among all stakeholders that the pre-reform status quo was
unsustainable and reforms were absolutely necessary. This is illustrated by the fact that while previous
attempts to raise gasoline taxes in Jamaica resulted in riots and eventual roll-back of policy, the tax
increase supported under FSDPL1 was well-received by the general public who understood the urgent
need to strengthen fiscal balances. Government is using the time of the current wage freeze to
fundamentally change and streamline the wage bargaining process by working with the unions to
significantly reduce the number of bargaining units. The Government is also committed to addressing
security challenges, as evidenced by its tenacity in pursuing a resolution to the May 2010 Tivoli Gardens
incident, and has committed to develop and implement a national safety and security strategy in the near
term. IFIs and other donors are heavily focused on building consensus for advancing critical public sector
reforms.
Institutional capacity and reform implementation: The Government has embarked on substantial public
sector reforms which require changes in institutional structure and significant enhancement in institutional
capacity. The reform process could be delayed as the institutions try to adjust to the changes and enhance
their capacity. For example, as highlighted earlier in the document, the transition to MTEF is a multi-year
process that requires significant investments in capacity building and aligning the orientation of the
institutions towards medium term planning. Similarly, the DMU reforms will require a substantial
upgrading of technical and institutional capacity. Finally, there may be short-term delays in reform
implementation as the reform strategies developed at the unit and ministry-level are subsumed into the
broad overarching rationalization plan of the PSTU.
Mitigation: Jamaica has well established institutions which are committed to reform. The development
partners have put together a multi-year technical assistance package to support institutional capacity
building and advancing public sector reforms. For example, the DMU reforms are being implemented
with guidance from specialists in the Bank’s Treasury department, and are being overseen by a high-level
Debt Committee comprised of senior members of the Government and the civil society. The Bank has
reached an agreement with DFID to secure £920,000 for funding technical assistance for institutional
changes including restructuring of the Debt Management Unit, Parliamentary oversight of budgetary
processes, and the Government communication strategy.
Natural Disasters and Climate Change: Natural disasters can derail economic growth, limit the progress
on poverty reduction, and pose a heavy fiscal burden, increasing indebtedness and redirecting public
resources away from long-term development plans. Jamaica is highly vulnerable to droughts, floods, and
hurricanes. The cumulative damage from the last three major storms— Ivan (2004), Dean (2007), and
Gustav (2008)—was over US$1 billion. The most recent tropical storm Nicole caused a fiscal cost of 1
percent of the GDP to the government budget. In general for the Caribbean countries, the annualized cost
of hurricanes is estimated to range from 0.13 to 1.93 percent of GDP. The emerging risks from climate
change must also be taken into account in long-term development planning to ensure that new projects
take into account climate resilience.
Mitigation: The damage to major private sector enterprises is partly covered by insurance. The GoJ
participates in the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility. The Bank is assisting Jamaica through
investments in natural disaster risk mitigation with the Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan and
technical assistance for its safety net program to mitigate adverse consequences on poverty. In January
2009, the National Water Sector Adaptation Strategy and Plan of Action to address climate change were
established with Bank assistance and provide recommendations on key investments (capacity,
institutional, policy and legislative, etc) to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change in the water
sector. With joint support from the WB and IDB, the GoJ is preparing a strategic program for climate
adaptation under the Pilot Program for Climate Resilience (PPCR).


VII.    Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts
The actions supported by the proposed FSDPL2 are expected to have a positive overall distributional
impact. The Poverty Assessment and the Public Expenditure Review have found that the high debt has
adversely impacted the poor by reducing fiscal space for priority social spending and investment
programs, while macroeconomic volatility and inflation have had a disproportionately negative impact on
the poor. In particular, high inflation in the past had eroded much of the purchasing power of transfers
provided under the conditional cash transfer program. Since the expected outcomes from the DPL series
include a more stable macro environment, reduced debt burden, increased fiscal space for productive and
poverty-alleviating expenditures, and improved growth outlook, the broad distributional impacts are
expected to be pro-poor. Furthermore, the Bank has undertaken a comprehensive Poverty and Social
Impact Assessment (PSIA) to evaluate the distributional impacts of tax reform and Public Bodies
rationalization components of the Government’s reform program. For these two reforms, the PSIA has
been able to identify specific distributional transmission channels and evaluate—using both quantitative
and qualitative methods—the impacts on the poor.
The short-term, direct impact of the tax reform is likely to have been somewhat negative, but the medium-
and long-term effects of the reform package are expected to be positive. Simulations show that the tax
reform on its own would have likely led to a small increase in poverty. However, the progressivity of the
petroleum tax combined with a highly progressive incidence of the loss of interest income from the JDX
has lessened the impacts on the poorest households. In addition, the substantial improvement in the fiscal
position due to these reforms is expected to yield a positive growth dividend and therefore help poverty
reduction. Therefore, the combined effect of the package of fiscal (tax and debt exchange) reforms is
estimated to have reduced both poverty and inequality.
The overall poverty and distributional impacts of public bodies rationalization are likely to be small.
Households with members employed in sectors under rationalization (sugar, aluminum, and ethanol) have
consumption per capita 30 percent lower than other households and are three times more likely to be poor.
However, these households account for only 0.2 percent of the Jamaican population (5,626 Jamaicans
living in 2,274 households). Moreover, a number of these households already have access to social safety
nets: more than 13 percent of the potentially affected households are beneficiaries of the Jamaican CCT
program PATH, compared with less than 7 percent of non-affected households who are PATH
beneficiaries. Moreover, displaced sugar workers are eligible for compensation under the Sugar
Transformation Payment (STP) program, which pays J$170,000 to displaced females and J$150,000 to
displaced males in addition to making tuition and clinic attendance payments on behalf of the displaced
workers.
Despite the limited overall impact, qualitative work has revealed substantial vulnerabilities in the sugar
sector. Community interviews—although not representative due to small sample size—revealed that as
many as half of those previously employed have not been able to secure formal employment since.
Limited coping mechanisms are a major source of vulnerability: many households have borrowed in
anticipation of receiving STP but few have actually received them. However, so far few, if any,
households have lost their homes and most community members remain optimistic about the future,
believing that privatization would lead to increased investment in the factories and improved management
practices.
Although workers employed in the industries to be privatized—like most public sector workers—will
have a more difficult time finding new employment, training programs can make a big difference.
Compared with workers in other industries/sectors, public sector workers in industries with entities to be
privatized not only face a higher probability of losing their job but also a more difficult time finding new
jobs once unemployed. However, employment probabilities are substantially higher with workers with
above-average levels of schooling. Moreover, even after controlling for all other determinants such as
age, gender, education, and sector of employment, access to specialized training (such as government-
sponsored HEART/ National Training Agency programs) makes a significant difference.
The Government has developed a wide array of tools to help mitigate any adverse distributional impacts.
In December 2008, the GoJ set up a special program through the HEART Trust/National Training Agency
to retrain laid-off workers in order to assist them to gain alternative employment. The PATH program,
which reaches about 14 percent of the population, has been used as a vehicle to help the poor with
additional payments during periods of natural disasters as well as the recent global crisis. The STP
payments have been distributed to 1,200 recipients by September 2010 and in March 2011 the workers
aspect of the grant program was completed.
Environment Aspects
The specific policies supported by this DPL operation are not expected to have significant effects on the
environment, forests or other natural resources. Jamaica has the institutional capacity and the necessary
arrangements to assess and manage adverse environmental effects. The National Environment and
Planning Agency (NEPA) has been in place since April 2001 as a means for conducting environmental
impact assessments under acceptable international standards. The Development Bank of Jamaica and
other investment promotion agencies (e.g., Jamaica trade and Invest, formerly JAMPRO) require that all
proposed projects conform to the environmental laws of Jamaica and must comply with regulations
stipulated by the NEPA. Currently, limited fiscal space hampers the ability of relevant GoJ agencies to
perform such tasks effectively and this capacity may come under increased pressure from potential
additional investments in mining and agriculture following privatization in these sectors. However, the
successful implementation of this DPL operation would in fact create the fiscal space needed for the GoJ
to invest in critical environmental public goods such as protection of watersheds and forests, zoning and
flood prevention, protection of coastal resources, stricter/effective enforcement of physical planning and
environmental laws and regulations, and better integration of institutional mandates regarding
environmental management. Indeed, an Integrated Environmental Assessment was completed in April
2009 in anticipation of the divestiture of the Sugar Company by the Sugar Industry Authority and the
Ministry of Agriculture has already taken steps to initiate the process of Strategic Environmental
Assessment.

VIII. Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Zafer Mustafaoglu                   and    Contact: Denis Medvedev
Title: Lead Economist & Sector Leader               Title: Country Economist
World Bank                                          World Bank
Latin America and Caribbean Region                  Latin America and Caribbean Region
PREM, Economic Policy Sector                        PREM, Economic Policy Sector
1818 H Street NW                                    1818 H Street NW
Room I 4-011, Mailstop I 4-405                      Room I 4-216, Mailstop I 4-405
Washington, D.C. 20433                              Washington, D.C. 20433
Phone: (202) 458-5431                               Phone: (202) 473-3895
Fax: (202) 522-2119                                 Fax: (202) 614-3895
Email: zmustafaoglu@worldbank.org                   Email: dmedvedev@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Planning Institute of Jamaica
Title: Communication Specialist
16 Oxford Road
Kingston 5
Jamaica, West Indies
Phone: (876) 960-9339 ext 5062
Fax: (876) 906-2214
Email: info@pioj.gov.jm

IX.     For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
