                                          CONFORMED COPY


                                      LOAN NUMBER 8084-JM




     Loan Agreement
   (Second Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability
           Development Policy Loan)


                    between


                  JAMAICA


                      and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
          AND DEVELOPMENT




           Dated September 25, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated September 25, 2011, entered into between JAMAICA
(“Borrower?) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:



ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million Dollars
        ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan Amount.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
                all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

        (c)     Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
                Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
                premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
                itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
                with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
                allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM




                                           -2-
3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.



ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of, namely, that a situation has
        arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it,
        will be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of, namely, that the event
        specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
        of 30 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely,
        that the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying
        out the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
        which expire on March 8, 2013.




                                            -3-
               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        Ministry of Finance
        30 National Heroes Circle
        Kingston 4
        Jamaica

        Facsimile: 876-924-9291

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                     Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or             1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)

        AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.



                                 JAMAICA

                                 By /s/ Audrey P. Marks

                                                            Authorized Representative

                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                                 By /s/ Francoise Clottes




                                           -4-
      Authorized Representative




-5-
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                   Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken Under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

A.      Enhancing Fiscal and Debt Sustainability

1.      (a) The Borrower has introduced a fiscal responsibility framework into its
        legislation, as evidenced by the enactment, by the Borrower’s Parliament of: (i)
        the FAA (Amendment) Act which amends the FAA Act to, inter alia, ensure
        accountability for applying principles of prudent fiscal management; and (ii) the
        PBMA (Amendment) Act which amends the PBMA Act to, inter alia, increase
        the transparency and comprehensiveness of data on fiscal operations presented to
        the Borrower’s Parliament; and

        (b) The Borrower has started to implement the fiscal responsibility framework
        described in the FAA (Amendment) Act, as evidenced by a letter issued by the
        Borrower’s Financial Secretary dated July 18, 2011 demonstrating how said
        fiscal responsibility framework has been implemented, through, inter alia: (i) the
        submission by the Borrower’s Minister of Finance to the Borrower’s Parliament
        on April 28, 2011 of the Fiscal Policy Paper; (ii) the submission by the
        Borrower’s Auditor General to the Borrower’s Parliament on May 27, 2011 of a
        report indicating that the Fiscal Policy Paper complies with the principles of
        prudent fiscal management specified in Section 48D of the FAA (Amendment)
        Act; and (iii) the submission by the Borrower’s Minister of Finance to the
        Borrower’s Parliament in April 2011of estimates of revenue and expenditure for
        Public Bodies with respect to the ensuing financial year as specified in Section
        2A of the PBMA (Amendment) Act.

2.      (a) The Borrower has submitted on July 12, 2011 to the Borrower’s Parliament,
        for approval thereby, a bill entitled the Public Debt Management Act, 2011, for
        purposes of: (i) consolidating the existing legal and regulatory framework related
        to debt management; (ii) introducing modern debt management practices
        (including the establishment of a high level Public Debt Management Committee
        with the purpose of providing strategic guidance on debt management, and
        chaired by the Borrower’s Financial Secretary); and (iii) ensuring prudent
        management of government guarantees and contingent liabilities, as evidenced
        by a letter issued by the Clerk to the Houses of the Borrower’s Parliament dated
        July 14, 2011; and

        (b) the Borrower has started to implement the time-bound action plan dated
        December 1, 2010 he ufor purposes of strengthening the institutional and




                                           -6-
     technical capacity of the Borrower’s Debt Management Unit, including: (i) the
     submission by the Borrower to the Borrower’s Parliament on July 19, 2011, for
     ratification thereby, of the Civil Service Establishment (General) (Amendment)
     (No. 2) Order, 2011 which will establish a new functional organization structure
     with front, middle and back offices, as evidenced by a letter issued by the Clerk
     to the Houses of the Borrower’s Parliament dated July 20, 2011; and (ii) the
     development of a medium term debt management strategy, as evidenced by the
     submission to the Borrower’s Parliament of said debt management strategy on
     April 28, 2011 and publication on MoF’s website (http://www.mof.gov.jm).

3.   The Borrower has continued to implement the plan dated July 3, 2008 to achieve
     the rationalization of Public Bodies, as evidenced by the divestiture of: (i) Air
     Jamaica (pursuant to the Contribution and Share Issuance Agreement, Personnel
     Provision Agreement and Transition Services Agreement, all signed on April 30,
     2010); (ii) three sugar estates (Monymusk, Frome, Bernard Lodge) (pursuant to
     the Agreement for Sale and Purchase signed on July 30, 2010); and (iii) the
     Pegasus Hotels of Jamaica Limited (pursuant to the Share Sale and Purchase
     Agreement signed on September 14, 2010).

4.   The Borrower, through MoF, has completed employment surveys (censuses) for
     all non-self financing Public Bodies (fully-funded by the Borrower and partially
     funded by the Borrower), as evidenced by the letter issued by the Borrower’s
     Financial Secretary dated May 2, 2011 including all completed surveys.

B.   Increasing the Efficiency of Financial Management and Budget Processes

1.   (a) The Borrower has implemented a new methodology for evaluating capital
     investments in six line ministries (MoF, Ministry of Transport and Works,
     Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries,
     and Ministry of National Security), as evidenced by the inclusion in the Budget
     Call 2011/2012 Financial Year (Ref. No. 907/120) dated January 28, 2011 of
     processes to be followed to prioritize the investment program; and

     (b) The Borrower has introduced a medium term expenditure framework in six
     pilot line ministries (MoF, Ministry of Transport and Works, Ministry of
     Education, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, and
     Ministry of National Security), as evidenced by: (i) the submission by the
     Borrower’s Minister of Finance to the Borrower’s Parliament on April 28, 2011
     of the Fiscal Policy Paper, including a fiscal responsibility statement outlining
     how fiscal targets will be achieved; and (ii) the inclusion in the Budget Call
     2011/2012 Financial Year (Ref. No. 907/120) dated January 28, 2011 of key
     elements of the decision processes for the medium term expenditure framework
     including budget ceilings and procedures for cabinet decisions on medium term
     priorities.




                                       -7-
C.      Reducing Distortions and Enhancing the Efficiency of the Tax System

1.      The Borrower has continued to implement a uniform tax code by instituting
        interim measures (including, inter alia, freezing the issuance of new statutory
        waivers and reducing the issuance of discretionary waivers by the Minister of
        Finance) until a tax policy reform is implemented, as evidenced by: (i) the
        Borrower’s Cabinet Decision (No. 28/2010) dated July 21, 2010; (ii) the
        measures adopted by the MoF dated November 15, 2010 and published on the
        MoF’s website on November 15, 2010 (www.mof.gov.jm/pressreleases); and (iii)
        a letter from the Borrower’s Financial Secretary dated July 14, 2011
        summarizing said Cabinet Decision and the November 15, 2010 measures.

2.      (a) (i) The Borrower’s Parliament has approved the consolidation of the
        departments of Inland Revenue, Taxpayer Audit and Assessment, and Tax
        Administration Services into a single tax administration department called Tax
        Administration Jamaica, as evidenced by the enactment of the Revenue
        Administration (Amendment) Act, 2011, dated April 1, 2011; and (ii) the
        Borrower has prepared a detailed transition plan for implementing the
        organizational, administrative and operational changes introduced in the Revenue
        Administration (Amendment) Act, 2011 dated April 1, 2011, as evidenced by a
        letter issued by the Borrower’s Financial Secretary dated July 14, 2011; and

        (b)      The Borrower has continued to implement a simplified process for
        paying taxes and improving tax collection efficiency and client services, as
        evidenced by: (i) the implementation of the first phase of the amalgamation of
        payroll taxes which consolidates five payments and five forms for five different
        taxes into one payment and one form, as evidenced by the issuance of the
        Income Tax (Amalgamated Payroll Remittance) Regulations, 2010 dated
        November 15, 2010; (ii) the creation of client services units in large taxpayer
        offices to establish a one-stop shop for all tax payments (including providing
        fourteen different services for large taxpayers and covering one hundred forty
        nine of the four hundred seventy three large taxpayers in the Borrower’s
        territory); and (iii) the extension of online tax filing and payment to all taxpayers
        and to all tax instruments, as evidenced by a letter issued by the Borrower’s
        Financial Secretary dated July 14, 2011 and the upgrading of the Borrower’s
        website for purposes of online tax filing and payment (http:/
        http://www.jamaicatax-online.gov.jm).


Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.




                                            -8-
B.   Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
     Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
     Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
     amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                                                 Amount of the Loan
                                                      Allocated
                Allocations                     (expressed in Dollars)

      (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                      99,750,000

      (2) Front-end Fee                                     250,000

      (3)Amount due pursuant to                                   0
      Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement

      TOTAL AMOUNT                                       100,000,000

C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

     1.     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless
            the Bank is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the
            Borrower, and (b) with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic
            policy framework.

D.   Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

     1.     all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
            into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
            and

     2.     the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
            Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
            Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
            Bank.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan
     shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at
     any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
     Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
     refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
     refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2012.




                                          -9-
                                   SCHEDULE 2

                               Amortization Schedule

1.   The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
     percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
     Payment Date (“Installment Share?). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
     withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
     Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
     determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
     first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
     Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
     amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
     Conversion applies.


     Principal Payment Date                             Installment Share
                                                    (Expressed as a Percentage)
             May 15, 2021                                      11%
           November 15, 2021                                   11%
             May 15, 2023                                      10%
           November 15, 2023                                   10%
             May 15, 2028                                      15%
           November 15, 2028                                   15%
             May 15, 2029                                      14%
           November 15, 2029                                   14%

2.   If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
     Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
     each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     (a)      To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
              the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
              Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
              of this Schedule.

     (b)      Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
              repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
              withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
              amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
              the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
              Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share?)
              and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
              Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
              date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any




                                         -10-
            amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
            Conversion applies.

3.   (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
            Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
            principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
            withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
            following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
            Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
            Date following the date of withdrawal.

     (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
            at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
            invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
            provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
            withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
     Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
     Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
     repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
     each such amount.




                                      -11-
                                    APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.     “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
                         112                                  Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                  Tobacco, un-
                                                              manufactured, tobacco
                                                              refuse
                         122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                              (whether or not containing
                                                              tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                              materials
                         667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                              semiprecious stones,
                                                              unworked or worked
                         718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                              thereof; fuel elements
                                                              (cartridges), non-
                                                              irradiated, for nuclear
                                                              reactors
                         728             728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                              machinery
                         897             897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                              platinum group metals
                                                              (except watches and watch
                                                              cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                              silversmiths’ wares




                                         -12-
                                                             (including set gems)
                      971                                    Gold, non-monetary
                                                             (excluding gold ores and
                                                             concentrates)

     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
             agreements to which the Borrower is a party);

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
             (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
             satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

2.   “FAA (Amendment) Act? means the Borrower’s Act entitled Financial
     Administration and Audit (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 2010 dated March 22,
     2010.

3.   “Financial Secretary? means the accounting officer of the MoF with overall
     technical responsibility for the management of the Borrower’s fiscal operations.

4.   “Fiscal Policy Paper? means the paper prepared by the Ministry of Finance dated
     April 28, 2011 and submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament setting out, inter alia:
     (i) the proposed macroeconomic framework for the Borrower; (ii) a fiscal
     responsibility statement; and (iii) a fiscal management strategy, all in accordance
     with Section 48.B of the FAA (Amendment) Act.

5.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

6.   “MoF? means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance.

7.   “PBMA (Amendment) Act? means the Borrower’s Public Bodies Management
     and Accountability (Amendment) Act, 2010 dated March 22, 2010.




                                        -13-
8.      “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
        support fiscal sustainability reforms and promote growth and sustainable poverty
        reduction asset forth or referred to in the letter dated July 22, 2011 from the
        Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of
        the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program
        during its execution.

9.      “Public Body? means a statutory body or authority or any government-owned
        company, as defined in the Borrower’s Public Bodies Management and
        Accountability Act dated December 28, 2001, as said Act has been amended
        through March 22, 2010.

10.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
                under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
                shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.?




                                          -14-
6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
            report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:


     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project? throughout
            these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?):

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
            support of which the Loan is made.?




                                     -15-
