D_cumnu or
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
,#I 236?-)o
lept No. P-3632-DO
Fa:POT AJID  RO     A
OF TE
nRSDN  ')F THE
3NTZREl IP NAL BDAM IFOR RECONSTMlJCTIT  AmD DEVELOPMEU
.To TME
EXECUTIV  DIMORS
ON A
PROPSEDLOAN
IN AN AMOUT EQUIVALET TO 7S$3.8 MILLION
TO TME
DOMCAN RE?PUBLIC
FOR As
MaMo COAL TERINAL AND POwm EIE         aG PROJECT
November 29, 1983
Th dOCifu bu a mebicki dL*ibmiSm and my be wed by redpls enly in the peifuuu._  |
|dT oeUcla dUli It- mug dlbwic be dejed witbit WVddi Bck ui_iadm.



CURRENCY EOJIVALEU
Currency is expressed in Dominican Pesos (DR$) or US Dollars (US$)
at the official exchange rate. The Dominican Republic has also a legal,
parallel foreign exchange market, where the US dollar is traded at a
premium. During November 1983, the premium rate was about DR$1.75   US$1.00
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
Average calendar year 1983
US$1.00   DR$1.00
DR$I.00 - US$1.00
FISCAL VAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVITTIONS
APD       -    Dominican Port Authority
CDE       -    Dominican Electricity Corporation
CEA       -    State Sugar Council
CORDE     -    State Enterprise Holding Corporation
EFF       -    Extended Fund Facility
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      -    International Monetary Fund
INESPRE   -    National Price Stabilization Institute
NGO's    -    Non-Governmental Organizations
SEOPC     -   Ministry of Public Works and Communications
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
=                               DOMINICAN REPURLIC
ITABO COAL TERMINAL AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Dominican Republic
Beneficiary:   Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad (CDE)
Amount:        US$3.8 million equivalent (including a capitalized front end
fee of US$9,476).
Terms:         Repayable over 17 years, including four years of grace, at the
Rank's standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:         The proceeds of the Loan would be relent to the Dominican
Electricity Corporation (LDE) on the same terms as established
under t'te Loan Agreement with the Borrower. -
Project
Description:   The proposed project would help the Dominican Electricity
Corporation (CDE) in preparing two high priority projects in
the energy sector for possible consideration by the Bank at a
later date: (a) a coal terminal at the port of Raina, with
land transport connections to the steam-electric generating
plant at Itabo (new nearing covmpletion) ard related ash
handling installations; and (b) a proposet power project
comprising rehabilitation of existing thermal generating
plants and reduction of power system losses.
Risks:         No significant risks are involved in the execution of studies
and engs.neering work to be financed under the proposed Loan,
or under the subsequent projects. Temporary environmental
risks resulting from coal shipments during the constructioni
period of the follow-up Itabo Coal Terminal project would be
kept at a minimum.
This document nas a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
I their offcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discsed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Project Cost:  1/4/
-U-SUS$'000-
FOREIGN       LOCAL       TOTAL
Coal Terminal
Study and Design  2/         1,318          289       1,607
Environmental Impact 3/
and Ash Handling
Study and Design               788         267        1,055
Rehabilitation of
CDE's Thermal Plants
Technical Assistance
and Studies                  1,000           72       1,072
CDE's Distribution
Losses
Technical Assistance           250           12         262
Total Base Cost                  3,356          640       3,996
Price Contingencies                274           66         340
Total Project Costs              3,630          706       4,336
Front-End Fee                       10            -          10
Total Financial
Requirements                   3,640          706       4,346
------US$ 'oo
Financing Plan:                                   FOREIGN   LOCAL  TOTAL
CDE                                     -     546     546
IBRD                               3,640      160   3,800
Total                            3,640      706   4,346
Estimated                                            -In US$ millions-
Disbursments:
Bank FY 1984                                  3.8
1/ Project is exempt from taxes and duties.
2/ Including US$500,000 financed by first PPF advance.
3/ Including US$500,000 financed by second PPF advance.
4/ Rounding leads to slightly different figures than presented in Annex IV.



- iii -
Economic Rate
of Return:           N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              N.A.
Naps:                IBERD No. 16826 attached



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN (IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$3.8 MILLION)
TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR AN
ITABO COAL TERMINAL AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$3.8 million, including a
US$9,476 capitalized front end fee, to help finance engineering for a coal
terminal in the port of iaaina serving the Itabo thermal power plant (under
construction), and for the preparation of a power project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. The Borrower would relend the proceeds of
the proposed loan to the Dominican Electricity Corporation at the same terms
as established in the Bank Loan Agreement.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report, Report No. 3446-DO, entitled
"Economic Memorandum on the Dowinican Republic", was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 15, 1981. Bank economic missions visited the
Dominican Republic in 1982 and in 1983. Their findings are reflected below;
a new economic report will be circulated to the Board in January 1984.
Country economic data are presented in Annex I.
Economic Performance Through 1982
3.        After growing by more than 10 percent yearly during 196S-74, the
rhythm of economic activity diminished in the second half of the 1970s. By
1981 the GDP growth rate was only 3.5 percent, and it fell to only 1.5
percent in 1982. The slowdown was caused by both external and internal
conditions. The economy was buffeted by declining terms of trade due
primarily to rising oil prices and falling sugar prices; export volumes fell
precipitously with the recession in the U.S.; and higher interest rates
raised the cost of Dominican borrowing. As one indicator of the sudden
importance of oil imports and declining sugar prices, the petroleum bill rose
from 60 percent of sugar earnings in 1977 to 133 percent in 1982. Internal
policies were also at fault: incentives to exporters deteriorated and the
system of protective tariffs and quotas biased production against exports;
some investment incentives had an anti-employment bias; and the tax base has
eroded continously since the early 1970's, plunging the public sector into
deficit.



4.        The overall deficit of the consolidated public sector increased
from 1.8 percent of GDP in 1977 to an estimated 5.3 percent in 1982. This
deterioration was not only due to declining tax revenues, but to real
increases in current expenditures and to long delays in adjusting public
utility tariffs. The State Sugar Council (CEA) and the Dominican Electricity
Corporation (CDE) faced large production costs not matched by international
sugar prices or electricity rates. The National Price Stabilization
Institute (INESPRE) incurred a large deficit in 1982 because of storage and
marketing problems, and the State Enterprises Holding Company (CORDE) also
incurred large losses in 1982, mainly as a result of employment increases.
5.        As a result ot -both international and domestic factors, the balance
of payments situation has deteriorated continuously in the past five years.
The overall reserve loss averaged US$100 million yearly from 1978 to 1981.
In 1982, however, reserves fell by over US$300 million. Arrears of external
payments were also growing; at the end of 1982, these were about USS600
million. The premium on the U.S. dollar in the parallel foreign exchange
market, which had averaged 25-35 percent in 1980 and 1981, increased to over
50 percent by the end of 1982 and 75 percent by late 1983. Private sector
capital flows, which had been positive throughout most of the 1970s, were
negative in 1982. The protective foreign trade regime--with high tariffs on
finished goods, a cheaper official foreign exchange rate and lower tariffs on
most intermediate and some capital inputs, and price controls, export quotas
and prohibitions-compounded these external difficulties. The result has
been to deter export diversification and expansion, while dependence on
imported inputs has been encouraged.
6.        The international and domestic factors also affected price
changes. Inflation has been modest, especially by Latin American
standards-12 percent average per year in the period 1970-79.  The Consumer
Price Index rose by 16.7 percent in 1980, the largest increase in the last
decade, due partly to the impact of hurricanes; in late 1979. Consumer
prices rose at about 8 percent in 1981 and 1982, although the pace slackened
to under 5 percent in 1983.
7.        Public management practices and wealth patterns, established in the
Trujillo era, have been difficult to change. Dominicans suffer from
relatively deficient public social services, and the participation of the
poor in the benefits of the economic expansion in the 1970s was limited.
They have undoubtedly been hurt by the economic deterioration after 1981.
Over 2 million people (over 40 percent of the population) live in conditions
under the absolute poverty standard.l1/
1/ The absolute poverty standard is defined as the sum of the annual per
capita cost of a minimum diet and of proportional non-food expenditure
component--DR$451 in the urban sector, DR$263 in the rural sector.



Urban unemployment has increased to more than 25 percent of the labor force.
Health needs are enormous as reflected by high infant mortality, widespread
endemic diseases as a consequence of poor water and sanitation, and
malnutrition.
8.        The present Government of the Dominican Republic took office on
August 16, 1982 for a four-year term. Its attention has so far been devoted
to containing the present balance of payments and fiscal crises through a
*         fiscal/monetary stabilization program.  In February 1983, IMF approved a
US$450 million Extended Fund Facility (EFF) cum Compensatory Financing
Facility in support of this program. One goal of the program is to reduce
*         the public sector deficits to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1983, 3 percent in 1984,
and 2.5 percent in 1985. A new sales tax will go into effect in late
November 1983. Also. the Government immediately reduced public salaries and
made substantial cuts in subsidies to decentralized public enterprises. The
authorities expect an overall balance of payments deficit of not more than
US$20 million in 1983, and surpluses in the following two years. The Central
Bank will reduce its foreign exchange arrears, primarily through rescheduling
of amortization payments. The Government has negotiated recently with
private foreigi banks the rescheduling of a US$660 million package to cover
commercial debt arrears, most public short-term debt, and the medium-term
debt amortization due in 1983 to commercial foreign banks.
9.        The program also includes adoption of a more realistic exchange
rate. The parallel floating foreign exchange market has been greatly
expanded; over half of imports now go through this market and petroleum now
accounts for nearly three quarters of the remaining official rate imports.
The new Government has promoted the institutionalization of the parallel
market by allowing banks to operate in it, by allowing an increasing number
of non-traditional exports access to the parallel market and by simplifying
export procedures. Sugar and tobacco exporters will also receive more
effective foreign exchange rate incentives. They will be permitted to sell
20 percent of total foreign exchange earned on the parallel market; other
traditional exporters may sell 10 percent. The recent depreciation of the
peso on the parallel market has made these incentives even more attractive.
10.       In its first year, the new Government has confronted the nation's
financial crisis with some success: the loss of international reserves has
been greatly reduced; the overall public sector deficit as a share of GDP has
been reduced; public enterprises have made some progress toward becoming more
efficient; and the changes in the exchange rate have been made to offer
greater incentives to exporters. The Government has successfully sought the
support of the IMF during 1983. Negotiations for the second year of the EFF
are expected to resume in the near future. This success has been accompanied
by dampening of domestic demand and rising unemployment.
11.       In redirecting the economy, additional Government actions will be
required if the Dominican Republic is to resume growth rates prevailing in
the 1970s. Specifically, trade and pricing policies must be made more



- 4 -
effective; public investment plans must support export expansion and
diversification, employment creation and adequate deliverv of social and
support services; the incentive system must encourage more efficient iLport
substitution, particularly in agriculture. Once it has completed its most
immediate tasks of fully stabilizing the economy and renegotiating its debt
package, the Government will have to concentrate its efforts on a medium-term
economic program which will cover the above issues.
12.      As a part of the medium-term program, the Government must continue
efforts to make energy consumption more efficient. Oil imports in 1977
accounted for only 15 percent of all imports, but by 1983 they had more than
doubled to 36 percent. The Government has adjusted prices of electricity to
encourage conservation, has raised the price of gasoline to consumers above
international levels, and has begun a long-term program to convert oil-fired
plants to coal. These and other efforts must be continued to ease balance of
payments and savings constraints on economic recovery.
13.       The Dominican Government has taken actions throughout 1983 that
enhance its creditworthiness. To date, it has successfully met all the
performance criteria set out in the EFF Arrangement with the IMF. The
Government recently initiated an economic dialogue with the Bank and has
begun to implement some actions suggested by the Bank. Provided that the
Government maintains the current pace of policy reforir and continues to
adhere to its stabilization program, the Dominican RepubLic is creditworthy
for limited external borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II -BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
14.       The Bank Group began its operations in the Dominican Republic with
a loan supporting the development of extended lateritic Nickel deposits in
1969. Since then, three IDA credits, 14 Bank loans and four IFC investments
for an industrial credit facility (cancelled), cement and cotton product'nu,
and a leasing institution have followed. As of September 30, 1983, the total
of IDA credits and Bank loans outstanding was US$269.3 million of which
US$133.3 million were undisbursed. Annex II includes a summary of Bank Group
operations and IFC investments; notes on the execution of ongoing projects
have been distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
15.        Bank Group loans and credits have financed one Nickel mining
operation; two education projects, providing the educationally least served
rural areas with basic, agricultural and community learning facilities; two
tourism projects for the development of infrastructure and hotel
accomodations in the new vacation resort areas near Puerto Plata; one
livestock project, promoting beef and milk production; two irrigation
projects, increasing agricultural productivity in high intensity development
zones; three road construction and maintenance projects; one population and
family health project, creating a system or family health care centers all
over the country; two urban development projects improving living conditions
for the least privileged and the technical services capacity in the capital;
one sugar rehabilitation project; one coffee and cocoa rehabilitation project
to enhance the productivity and incomes of small-scale producers, and one



-5-
project for urgent imports in order to alleviate the devastating effects of
Hurricane David.
16.       Project itplrmentation and disbursement performance have not been
satisfactory on all accounts. Due to institutional weakness of the executing
agencies, both irrigation projects have been and are plagued with many
problems and delays in congressional ratification have seriously jeopardized
the schedules of several other projects, notably the sugar rehabilitation
project.  More recently, the very difficult fiscal situation has caused a
slow-down in the implementation of all public investment projects. In this
situation, the Government is trying to maintain a minimum investment program
X        by allocating scarce counterpart funds to projects where they produce highest
marginal returns such as projects close to termination, critical
infrastructure projects and projects producing important public revenues
(power generation and distribution projects). However, due to the
incongruity between the large number of unfinished projects and very limited
counterpart funds, the Government, in spite of best efforts, has not
succeeded in managing efficiently a reduced emergency public investment
program.
17.       Many public and private aid agencies are active in the Dominican
Republic. Among the most important, figure the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
and the Uaited Nations system. IDB retains a diverse program both regionally
and sectorally with emphasis on agriculture, public health, transport, energy
and education but also including important investments in the industrial and
mining sectors, urban development and export promotion. To date, IDB has
approved over 50 lending operations for more than US$850 million equivalent
and in addition has delivered important technical assistance services. IDB
plans also in the future to maintain a strong exposure in the Dominican
Republic and to promote investments preferentially in the energy,
agricultural and industrial sectors, without neglectiag high-priority
social investments in the fields of education, urban development and public
health. Loans of the IDB are particularly sought after as they are extended
to the Dominican Republic under concessional financing arrangements including
favorable cost sharing ratios.
18.       The assistance program of USAID is of similar importance.
Traditionally, food aid programs, complemented by food production programs,
have been a major objective of USAID. Proceeds of the PL 480 operations were
used mainly to expand i on the small farmer services provided by the Ministry
of Agriculture and the poor segments of the population received direct food
support through a group of cooperating non-governmental organizations
(NGO's). Other assistance has been, and continues to be, directed to
small/medium industry development, energy conservation, vocational education
and skills training, primary education and housing. While USAID will
continue to play an important role in combatting rural poverty and
unemployment, export expansion (including free zones) and agri-businesses
investment support will be strengthened in the future, again with the strong
participation of NGO's and private sector institutions. The United Nations
system plays an essential role in the provision of technical assistance and
pre-investment support and sponsors an important mineral reconnaissance
program. Besides the above named institutions, other bi- and multilateral



- 6 -
donors (Federal Republic of Germany, France, Sweden, Venezuelan Investment
Fund) support assistance programs in selected sectors; much of their benefits
flowing to the energy and power sector.
Bank Strategy
19.       The Government is presently reviewing its investment program in
order to make it compatible with the reduced availability of counterpart
funds and in line with the recommendations of a recent Bank economic mission
and the auFterity program as included in the EFF Arrangement of the
International Monetary Fund. The intention of Government is to monitor
carefully the preparation of any new investments which would not be
revenue-producing or for which counterpart funds would not be readily
available. Nevertheless, the Government has urged the Bank to process
speedily Bank projects very advanced in the project cycle. It suggested that
all operations in support of the power sector should receive preferential
consideration; that the road transport subsector not be neglected and that
selected investments in the social sectors, notably primary education in
depressed areas of the country, should be supported. However, at the same
time, Bank operations should contribute to the resolution of the medium-term
structural problems to help alleviate an unfavorable balance of payments
situation projected to continue for several years unless demand for Dominican
Republic's exports improves dramatically.
20.       Concurrent to changes in the Government's mediumr-term economic
policies and a further revision of the public investment program, future Bank
lending will be reviewed and adjusted. Following the priorities of the
present investment program and assessment by the recent Bank economic
mission, the two follow-up operations to the proposed project (Power
Rehabilitation project; Itabo Coal Terminal project) will receive immediate
attention. The Power project would rehabilitate all thermal generating
plants serving the main industrial regions and bring to an end the frequent,
very costly power blackouts now plaguing the capital. By improving the heat
rates of all thermal power plants, fuel savings equal to 4.5 percent of the
1982 total imports would result. In a similar way, the coming on stream of
the Itabo coal-fired power generation complex would substantially rationalize
incremental power generation, provided the coal terminal in the port of Raina
is completed on time. Along with these investments in the power sector, a
further road construction and rehabilitation project would be put in place,
completing the ongoing work program and strengthening the institutional
capacity of the roads sector. A third education project would complement the
large IDB investments in the basic education sector by providing teaching and
learning materials. Thereafter, non-project operations (sector loans) appear
most needed. At present, a special working group of the Dominican Ministry
of Planning, including the three economic advisors of the President of the
Republic, with Bank assistance, is identifying the most efficient forms of
Bank assistance to the industrial and agricultural sectors with a view to
increasing their export potential. Bank sector work, in addition, will be
reviewing Dominican housing policies and the absorptive capacity of the urban
development sector for more investments. IFC, similarly, is trying to
increase its investments in the Dominican Republic.



-7-
21.       The Bank Group's share of the Dominican Republic's medium and
long-term external public debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding arrears
and short-term public debt) was 11.5 percent, and the Bank Group's share of
public external debt service was 4 percent at the end of 1982. It is
estimated that the Bank Group's share of outstanding public debt after
rescheduling of arrears would stand at 9 percent by 1985, while its share of
external public sector debt service would increase to about 6.6 percent.
PART III - THE POWER A1;D TRANSPORT SECTORS
The Power Sector
General Conditions
22.       The Dominican Republic (about 50,000 km2) covers the eastern
two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola and has a population close to 6
million growing at 3 percent annually. About half the population resides
near the southern coast, with heavy concentrations in the metropolitan area
of Santo Domingo, the capital (1 million), where much of the country's
industrial and commercial activity is located. Power infrastructure
configurations follow the pattern of dense settlements offering the urban
population preferential access to electricity. Presently, 33 percent of the
total population benefit from electricity with a per capita consumption per
annum (1980) of about 670 kwh. (1981: Panama = 1,230 kwh; average for
Central America = 404 kwh. 1980: Argentina = 1,464 kwh; Bolivia = 279 kwh;
Colombia = 783 kwh; Haiti = 65 kwh; Jamaica = 960 kwh; average for Latin
America and the Caribbean = 816 kwh).
Energy Resource Base
23.       The Dominican Republic is isot known to be richly endowed with
fossil energy resources. Oil exploration conducted actively over several
years and covering the major prospective areas of the country has not led to
the identification of commercially exploitable oil deposits. Lignite
reserves have been outlined in the norzhern region of the country but their
unfavorable stratification (high stripping ratio) does not allow immediate
utilization although studies continue for finding economic solutions to their
extraction. Geothermally interesting zones exist in the c. ral mountain
ranges. However, a contribution from this resource base to energy
production, under the most favorable circumstances, is not likely to occur
before the late 1990's. In contrast, the hydroelectric potential, in the
medium-term, is promising with an identified capacity of some 2,000 MW, able
to produce some 9,000 GWh per year. At present, only about 3.5 percent of
the hydroelectric potential is being exploited. Another important source of
energy, mainly for domestic purposes, is firewood. But its extended use is
contriouting to the eramatic rapid pace of disappearance of forests in the
Dominican Republic. Fortunately, the production of energy by burning bagasse
is well developed in the Dominican Republic and will increase in the future.
The State Sugar Council entertains an active program of improving the use of
bagasse for power generation, and electricity sales to CDE produce important
revenues to CEA.



- 8 -
Petroleum Utilization for Power Generation
24.       During the pre-1973 inexpensive oil era, the Donminican Republic's
energy consumption was founded on oil imports while the developmezt of
indigenous energy resources was neglected. This situation prevailed
throughout the 1970's even though oil imports, by value, increased 23-fold in
one decade, and significantly contributed to the country's growing balance of
payments deficit. While in 1970 the oil import bill amounted to US$19.1
million (7 percent of total imports), by 1974 it had increased to US$147
million (22 percent) and reached US$447 million (32 percent) in 1980. In
1982, oil imports held constant at 'JS$450 million (36 percent) due to price
reductions and reduced general economic activity, particularly visible in low
production leels of the ferro-nickel Industry.  Notwithstanding, in the
early 80's -Lmported oil accounted for 56 percent of total energy consumption
and 92 percent of electric power production continued to be oil-based.
Increasing Awareness of Energy Crisis
25.       Although a late reaction to the oil crisis, the Government and rMF
have taken a new look at the energy sector since about 1979. With the
assistance of USAID, a National Energy Assessment study was undertaken (1980)
which prompted another study on -National Planning for Capital Investment in
Dominican Republic's Energy Sector- (1982) as well as a US$22.2 million
National Energy Conservation and Resource Development Project slated for
completion in 1984. At the sane time, a French consulting firm helped in
establishing a least-cost power sector expansion program upon which CDE's
1983-90 investment program is based.
Power Sector Organization
26.       The-most important source of electricity generation and
distribution is CDE, an autonomous state-owned entity since 1955. CDE
presently owns and operates about 65 percent of the country's total
installed generating capacity of 1,360 KW. Captive producers, predominantly
the ferro-nickel and sugar industries, own the remaining 35 percent or about
480 MW. 79 percent of CDE's capacity is thermal (including 17 MW or 2
percent diesel generating capacity); 21 percent consists in hydroelectric
plants. CDE's transmission system constst6 of about 180 circuit km of 13S
Kilovolt and 1,148 circuit km of 69 V.Llovolt lines interconnecting most
generating plants, cities and rural installations divided in four major
distribution districts, Santo Domingo (65 percent of total consumption) being
the most important. Power system losses (administrative and technical) are
high and reach presently 38 percent of total public electricity generation.
2,.       CDE, as of December 1982, employed 5,378 persons, most serving in
commercial and administrative functions (54 percent). It is administered by
a Board of Directors and managed by a General Administrator, both appointed
by the President of the Republic. The organizational chart of CDE distin-
guishes six operating and seven administrative and other support units. Main
institutional issues, in summary, are: (a) Extremely low technical operation
efficiency, expected to be improved by plant rehabilitation, technical assis-
tance and training efrorts. (b) Complications in the day-to-day management



due to lack of efficient corporate planning, and overstaffing under political
influence. However, while there is still some 40 percent of excess middle
and lower level personnel, the hiring freeze to all public entities has;
stabilized employment at 1982 levels and contributed to a 25 percent increase
of the customers/employee ratio. Cc) CDE's salaries for professional staff,
though the highest in the public sector, are not competitive with pri.ate
sector salaries. Hence professional staff turnover is high; in the case of
*         the General Administrator, the problem is exacerbated by political factors
which have led to six appointments to the top CDE job during the past five
years.
Electricity Tariffs and Finances of CDE
28.       From 1955-to 1979 CDE's tariffs remained nominally unchanged.
Until 1973, CDE had a strong financial position and satisfactory rate of
return levels in excess of 9 percent. Thereafter, tariffs decreased in
real terms while costs increased substantially. After 1974, CDE had negative
rates of return on revalued assets, reaching -14.7 percent in 1980 when
finally substantial tariff increases were approved. Since then and through
May t983, tariffs increased by 138 percent (93 percent in real
terms), allowing CDE to obtain a rate of return of 2.7 percent in 1982.
During this same period, CDE's sales amounted to US$246 million equivalent
and the average tariff per kWh reached the comparatively high level of
US$0.1352
29.       The present tariff structure is based on a 1976 tariff study which
used an accounting approach but incorporated fuel costs in the basic rates.
The study designed a rates structure which, if applied in a timely manner,
would have generated sufficient revenues to cover the 1976-86 expansion
program without Government subsidies.  CDE in 1984 intends to complement the
1976 tariff study with a stronger leaning to marginal costing and given
continued Government support to a positive rate of return policy and prompt
payment of bills for public electricity consumption, CDE would attain
satisfactory levels of debt service coverage, and self-financing ratios by
1986187.
Power Sector Development and Investment Program
30.       On the basis of studies done by external consultants, CDE's
investments during the rest of the dec de are forecast to cost about
DR$ 1,700 million. The program calls for investments in hydropower and coal-
fired steam plants which would supply the future base load of the generating
system and in fuel oil fired plants which would predominantly supply the peak
load. The investment program includes two coal fired plants, the first of
which (Itabo I; 115 MW) will be operating in 1984. This plant is currently
under cons..-uction ju-t west of the Port of Haina as a dual fuel (oil or
coal) fired steam plant. The second unit of the Itabo plant is in the
process of being contracted and would double the coal-fired generation
capacity of CDE.
31.       While the investment program may be technically viable, its
financial viability will have to be periodically reviewed and the program



- 10 -
adjusted in line with changes in power demand and the financial situation of
CDE and the Government. The Bank mission reviewing the investment program
has underlined that its financial viability is dependent on (a) the prompt
improvement in the efficiency rate of CDE's thermal plants and reduction of
distribution losses; (b) maintaining the real value of CDE's tariffs; and (c)
timely and regular (within 60 days) payment of CDE's billings by the
Government and public institutions, which currently total some US$68 million
equivalent per year. In view of Government financial constraints, which are
likely to continue during the next few years, CDE may need to extend its
proposed investment program well beyond the period initially contemplated.
Nevertheless, a number of projects, including the projects under
consideration by the Bank, continue to be of the highest priority, given the
savings they would generate in petroleum imports.
32.       In executing its investment program, CDE appears to have a good
potential to receive substantial external technical and financial
assistance. Presently, the Bank, IDB, USAID, Canada, The People's Republic
of China, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Sweden and
Venezuela are actively supporting the Dominican energy sector and power
subsector and CDE or are planning to do so soon. While their support is
vital and in each instance of value, the follow-up Bank power project to the
proposed project would include provisions for an efficient coordination of
the large group of external donors.
Transport and Port Subsector
33.       Domestic transport of general freight and passengers is
predominantly by road, served by a 17,000 km network, about 17 percent of
which is paved. A rail network of about 1,600 km carries nearly 60 percent
of all ton-kms within the country, consisting mainly of sugarcane and sugar
products; this includes 80 percent (9 million tons) of all sugarcane
production during the six months harvest period.
34.       There are nine ports handling foreign trade which amounted to
around 4.5 million tons in 1980 (including petroleum). Of these, the three
ports serving the Santo Domingo area of the South Coast (Haina, Santo Domingo
and Andres) accommodate about half the volume. Haina itself handled 1.2
million tons of dry cargo in 1980, and upon completion of its container
terminal, it is expected to absorb most of the cargo now being handled by the
ports of Santo Domingo and Andres.
35.       The Port of Haina has been selected as the principal port for
future development of foreign trade; it is close to Santo Domingo (14 kms),
but not impaired by the urban congestion in the center of this city, as is
the existing port of Santo Domingo.  The Port of Haina is being expanded
through construction of a major container terminal, for which IDB made a loan
of US$35 million in 1976; construction of this project is nearing completion
and current estimates of its total investment cost are over US$60 million.
Haina already contains one of the country's largest sugar refineries,
privately owned fertilizer docks, container and general cargo facilities, and
CDE's largest thermal power plant.



- 11 -
36.       The Port of Haina was damaged by nurricanes David and Frederick in
1979; causing serious siltation in the harbor channel, and destroying the end
sections of the harbor breakwaters. These conditions cause navigational
hazards in the port entrance channel and diminish protection against wave
damage. This matter is being dealt with by IDB, which has allocated funds
for required engineering work on the breakwater.
Port Administration
37.       The Dominican Port Authority (APD), a relatively new body,
established in compliance with IDB loan covenants, today owns and controls
the ports of Santo Domingo (including the passenger terminal of Sans Souci),
Haina, and Andres; by law it will eventually control all the ports of the
country. Its administration of the ports is still mainly limited to general
supervision, security, some storage and shore handling, and administration of
the lands and concessions. Most of the cargo handling is done by private
companies. Port development, design and construction remain the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC).
The APD's assets in 1982 were only about DR$7.3 million (the works in
progress for the container terminal costing about DR$60 million not having
been transferred from the Government yet). Its operational revenue of 1982
was DR$6.0 million. Operational expenditure was DR$6.3 million, the
difference (DR$0.3 million) being made up by a Goverrment subsidy. This
issue is expected to be addressed in the context of technical assistance to
APD, contemplated for inclusion in the proposed Itabo coal terminal project.
Bank Involvement in the Power and Transport Sectors
38.       The Bank has not yet made loans directly to the power sector in the
Dominican Republic, but two recent operations were indirectly related:
vi) Loan 646-DO (1969), to finance a power plant for the
ferronickel plant at Falconbridge; and
(ii) Loan 1782-DO (1980), including a program to finance urgently
needed imports after hurricane David. Local funds generated
by the loan financed two 38MW gas turbines installed at Los
Mina (near Santo Domingo).
39.       In the transport sector, the Bank has made three loans for road
maintenance and reconstruction: The First Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1316-DO, US$5.0 million, 1976) provided for the
reconstruction of a section of the main road connecting the capital with
Santiago, the second important city of the Dominican Republic. Other
components were a bridge rehabilitation program and support to the road
maintenance department of the Ministry of Public Works. The Project
Performance Audit Report of 1981 indicates that project implementation
generally developed as planned but the scope of the project had to be reduced
as it took 2.5 years to achieve congressional ratification and effectiveness
of the loan. The second Bank operation was an Emergency Road Construction
Project (Loan 1783-DO, US$25.0 million, 1980). It supported the
reconstruction of 150 km of roads connecting the agricultural areas of the



- 12 -
north-west with Santiago, the center of the region. l2cause of its emergency
nature, the project was initiated without adequate design standards which led
to revision, resulting in an unfinanced gap closed by a Bank-approved
transfer of funds from the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project. The project is now completed. The most recent operation in the
sector is the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan
1784-Do, US$35.0 million, 1980). This project is strengthening and expanding
the national road maintenance capacity and includes a reconstruction progiam
for primary and secondary roads. Progress in implementation is satisfactory,
although latcly impeded by the lack of counterpart funds. The Bank also
supports the improvement of the sugar railroad network in various parts of
the country, as part of the Sugar Rehabilitation Project, Loan 1976-DO,
(US$35 million, 1980).
40.       There has been no previous direct involvement by the Bank in ports
of the Dominican Republic. In support of the coal terminal study at the Port
of Haina, the Bank made two advances of US$500,000 each to the Dominican
Republic under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The first, in 1981,
was to finance part of the feasibility study contracted by CDE, including
preliminary engineering for the proposed wharf and a land transport
connection between the wharf and the coal storage yard at the Itabo power
plant. The second, in 1982, was to finance the cost of an environmental
impact studv on the introduction of coal operations in the Haina area,
together with preliminary engineering for an ash disposal system.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Backgroand
41.       The Bank has held discussions with CDE concerning possible support
to the power sector since 1977 and has monitored the development of the Itabo
power plant and concurrent attempts to rationalize electric power
generation. The Itabo power complex is designed to be implemented in two
steps corresponding to the construction of two 115 MW generating units. The
first step was started in 1981 and the resulting Itabo I plant is planned for
commissioning in late 1984. The maximal usable energy of each Itabo
generating unit will be 800 GWh, and the particular location was chosen due
to its proximity to Santo Domingo, the main load center of the country, the
availability of an expandable port (Haina) and for environmental reasons
(trade winds blow smoke in directions away from the capital).
42.       Both Itabo generating units are designed for dual fuel usage
(oil. 'coal), but the intention is to base power generation fully on coal at
the earliest possible moment. This would produce substantial economies to
CDE and the resulting savings would be used to increase the self-financing of
the power sector investment program. The estimated cost of Itabo I is about
US$140 million equivalent. However, as this first step includes the
establishment of basic infrastructure serving the total Itabo complex, the
second step would cost comparatively less, US$80 million (1983 prices).
Financing for Itabo I is mainly provided by Spain and for Itabo II, funding
is likely to be forthcoming from the USA.



- 13 -
43.       While Itabo is not an investment in which the Bank is planning to
participate directly, the absence of a coal handling facility is the critical
missing link to achieving least cost effects in the electrical power sector.
As the rationalization of this sector is the main concern and motivation of
Bank participation in electrical power development in the Dominican Republic,
the high order of priority attributed by the Government to the immediate
construction of the Itabo coal terminal in the Port of Haina is shared by the
Bank. Likewise, there is full identity of perception about the urgency to
rehabilitate all thermal generating units presently operated by CDE and for
the implementation of an efficient power system losses reduction and
prevention program. Therefore, once the PPF-supported studies of the
proposed engineering project indicated the viability of the coal terminal
concept and the need for power sector rationalization, Bank appraisal of the
follow-up projects took place. Both the Itabo coal t.-rminal project, as well
as the Power rehabilitation project, are soon to be scheduled for
consideration by the Executive Directors.
44.       Negotiations for the proposed engineering project were held in
'Jashington and Santo Domingo ending on October 27, 1983. The Delegation was
headed by Mr. Marcelo Jorge-, General Administrator, CDE,and also involved
Mr. Ramon Albuquerque, Technical Secretary (Minister of Planning) of the
Presidency. No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Proj ect Obj ectives
45.       The proposed engineering project would assist CDE (i) in bringing
the planned Itabo coal terminal project in the port of Haina to the level of
engineering and economic analysis necessary for Board consideration, and (_i)
in preparing detailed lists of spare parts and equipment to be procured under
the planned Power Rehabilitation Project for thermal power plant
rehabilitation and to support the distribution losses reduction program.
Project Description
46.       The proposed engineering loan would finance the cost of studies,
technical assistance, and detailed engineering for the proposed Itabo coal
terminal in the port of Haina and related installations, for rehabilitation
of CDE's generating plants, and for reduction of losses in CDE's distribution
system. It would cover the following aspects:
(i)  Coal terminal study and design consisting of a feasibility
study for a single berth coal discharge wharf in the port of
Haina and transport facilities to the storage yard of the
Itabo power plant, detailed engineering for the same
facilities and preparation of contract documents for
construction.
(ii) Environmental impact study and design of ash handling
installations, including an analysis of all environmental
effects resulting from the introduction of coal transport and
firing in the Haina/Itabo area, and final engineering for
installations for the transportation of ash from the Itabo
plant to a disposal site.



- 14 -
(iii) Technical assistance and engineering studies required for
improvement of the generating efficiency of CDE through the
rehabilitation of existing thermal power plants, and improving
operating procedures and spare parts and inventory management.
(iv) Technical assistance in the implementation of the program to
reduce losses in CDE's distribution system, including
specialist advisors to CDE's Commercial Department.
(v) A detailed list of studies and services to be provided under
the proposed project is attached as Annex IV.
Detailed Project Features
(a) Itabo Coal Terminal
47.       Detailed engineering on the proposed Itabo coal terminal at the
port of Haina, and land transport connection to the power plant, would be
carried out by PRC Harris (U.S.A.), the same firm that carried out the
preliminary engineering designs and feasibility studies under PPF financing.
PRC Harris was selected by CDE with Bank approval because of its previous
involvement in the port of Haina on work financed by the IDB relating to a
Port Master Plan, the desig.. of a container terminal, and the supervision of
construction of that terminal.
48.       The environmental impact and ash handling study is being carried
out by EBASCO, Inc., (U.S.A.). The firm was selected by CDE in 1982 after
invitation and evaluation of proposals from three qualified firms in the
field of pollution control, in accordance with procedures approved by the
Bank. EBASCO would also be retained for supplementary work, involving the
analysis of environmental impact expected from interim coal supply to Itabo
(e.g., prior to the completion of the proposed coal terminal). In addition,
the proposed engineering loan would finance services by EBASCO on detailed
engineering for the proposed ash disposal system.
(b) Rehabilitation of CDE Thermal Plants and Reduction of System Losses
49.       The specialists who would provide the technical assistance services
required for the rehabilitation of CDE's thermal plants, have not yet been
selected. However, CDE's technical consultants have prepared terms of
reference which were reviewed and agreed to by the Bank.
50.       The program to reduce power system losses is based on the
diagnostic study of CDE's distribution losses prepared by Montreal
Engineering in March 1983. !butreal Engineering is currently involved in
a one-year technical assistance program which focusses on reduction of
administrative distribution losses. The proposed loan would finance the
foreign exchange cost of this technical assistance program.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
51.       The total project cost is estimated at US$4.3 million equivalent,
net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of about US$3.64 million, or



- 15 -
about 85 percent of total project costs. The proposed Bank loan of US$3.8
million would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs as well as 23
percent of local costs to be applied for selected specialist services
delivered by local consultants. CDE would provide the remainder of local
costs and technical support to the project. The proceeds of the loan would
be onlent by the Government to CDE under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on the
same conditions as established for the Bank Loan Agreement and the signature
of this agreement would be a condition of effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed loan would also include the
capitalized front end fee of US$9,476.
52.       Costs have been estimated on the basis of proposed or concluded
contracts and a detailed assessment of technical assistance requirements.
Contingency provisions for the proposed quick-disbursing project have been
limited to about 8 percent of total project costs or about 15 percent of
engineering design studies, technical assistance and studies for thermal
power plant rehabilitation and distribution loss reduction not yet committed
unde, contract. This provision is considered adequate for both possible
modifications in scope (additional services may be required for the loss-
reduction program and technical solutions for improving the heat rates of the
thermal generating plant may need modification and expansion) and price
escalation. The project would provide approximately 26 man-months of
technical assistance services at a man-month cost of US$12,000, including
customary overheads. This cost is considered reasonable in view of the
highly specialized nature of the services required and the predominantly
short-term duration of the assignments. All consulting services and
technical assistance specialists would be employed in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" of August 1981 (Section 2.02(a) of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Preparation Facility and Retroactive Financing
53.       For the preparation of the project, Project Preparation Facility
advances totalling US$1.0 million were approved between July 1981 and January
1982 for engineering of the Itabo coal terminal facilities in the port of
Haina. The advances under the PPF (almost fully disbursed) are included in
the cost of the project. As the fulfillment of the contracts already
concluded is advancing rapidly and in order to keep the project at its
present implementation speed, CDE will have to advance the sun of about
US$380,000 from its own funds; this amount is therefore proposed to be
reimbursed by retroactive financing for expenditures made since June 30, 1983
(Para. 4 of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
54.       The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
(i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 29 percent of local
expenditures for Linal engineering design of the coal terminal
and ash handling facility (US$1.2 million equivalent);



- 16 -
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultant services
for the thermal rehabilitation and distribution losses
programs (US$1.25 million equivalent);
(iii) Project Preparation Facility Advances (US$1.0 million);
(iv) Front End Fee (US$0.01 million).
(v) Unallocated (US$0.34 million equivalent).
Project Implementation
55.       CDE would be responsible fot project implementation.  A Project
Unit has already been established withir. CDE for the administration and
preparation of all works related tc the coal terminal in the port of Haina,
its connection to the coal yard at Itabo, and the installation of an ash
disposal system for the Itabo power plant. A project engineer satisfactory
to the Bank, has been assigned by CDE to head the Project Unit and CDE would
also commit the staff and all resources necessary to ensure effective
operation of the Project Unit during the implementation period. CDE would
also ensure that draft studies and engineering designs be submitted to the
Bank for review and comment prior to finalization (Section 2.03(a) and (b) of
the draft Project Agreement).
56.      Regarding the follow-up Power Rehabilitation project, CDE, in May
1983, established two working groups for (a) the rehabilitation of thermal
plants and (b) reduction of distribution losses. Two project engineers,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been assigned by CDE to head these working
groups and CDE would again commit the staff and all necessary other support
to ensure effective implementation of the project (Section 2.03(a) and (b)
of the draft Project Agreement).
Auditing Procedures
57.       CDE would have its accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors whose qualifications have been
found acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of CDE's financial statements
would be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the closure
of each fiscal year (Section 4.02(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Completion
58.       The proposed project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984, due to the advanced stage of preparation under PPF financing.
Project Justification and Benefits
59.       The project would initiate a fundamental restructuring of the
electrical power sector in the Dominican Republic and miake possible the
scheduled implementation of the least-cost investment program and the



- 17 -
rationalization of CDE's operations. It would provide the technical and
organizational tools for the conversion of elec ric power generation to a
more efficient fuel (coal) and for the rehabilitation of the existing
thermal power plants resulting in substantial financial and economic returns
due to reduced fuel-oil consumption and more efficient plant operation. The
design of a power system loss reduction program would represent a major step
forward in the financial strengthening of CDE and would allow a less costly
spacing of the different phases in the investment program.
Risks
60.       No significant risks are involved in the execution of studies and
engineering work to be  inanced under the proposed loan, or under the future
Power project. Temporary environmental risks resulting from coal shipment
during the construction period of the follow-up Itabo Goal Terminal would be
kept at a minimum since any shipment of coal that CDE authorizes prior to the
completion of the coal terminal at the port of Haina would have to comply
with dust emission controls satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.04 of the
draft Project Agreement).
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the
Bank, the Project Agreement between CDE and the Bank and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(ii) of the Articles of
Agreement, are being distributed separately. A special condition of
effectiveness would be that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Government and CDE has been signed. Special conditions are
listed in Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Exective Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D. C.
November 29, 1983



BEST COPY AVAIUBLE                                         -18-                                                             I
T A B L_E  3A                               Page  1  of 5
DcOINICAN REP.        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA sHEET
DWZNrtCAN 311'.                    RZEPERIEE GOUPS (zIONYSo nsactsAM  la
HOST                    (HOST RECEIT ESTIMATE) lb
/b~ 1A  r~%LMIb                  r h CIE              MiDDLE INOCIE
nu (TOMAM sq. IM)         ~~~1960-t    1970'  CSllATli   LAT. ANCRICA 6 CARIB    _ _TCR
aTuomwD SO. 30
TOTAL                             48.7       4C.7        48.7
AGRICULTURAL                      20.4       23.1        27.4
cP Us CuA   (CSS)                   260.0      430.0      1260.0           2038.2                  2453.6
mui eumnmwriu  ai curs
(utLOuAMS OF CAL EQUIVaLNt)      158.0      366.0       517.0            1607.6                 1580.
POFR.ATI  An Vi. SrahVs
POPULATION.HID-TEAR (TCUSAIS)   3047.0     4006.0      5392.0
URBA  POPULATION (2 oF TOTAL)     30.2       40.3        51.9             65.9                    47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (ML)                            8.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                           16.0
YEAiR STATIOART POP. REACHRD                          2095
POPULATION DENStT
PER sq. be.                     62.5       82.2       111.5              35.4                   32.0
PER SQ. me. AURt. LAND         149.4       159.9      198.2             93.2                   157.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCURE (2)
0-14 RS                        47.8        49.0       44.5              40.1                   31.9
15-64 TRS                       49.3       48.3        52.7              55.8                   60.9
65 AD .UMw                       2.9        2.7         2.7              4.1                     7.2
POPULATION GROWTl RATE (S)
TOTAL                            3.6        2.7         3.0               2.3                    1.6
WURBA                            6.0         5.6        5.3               3.7                    3.4
CgUDE UIRTH RATE (PER THaW)       50.3       44.7        35.7             31.5                    23.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)      16.1       11.6         8.1              8.1                     9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.7        3.3     -  2.3                2.0                    1.7
PAILY PLANNINIC
ACCEPTORS* ANNUAL (THOUS)         ..        17.2       88.9/c
USES (Z oI HARRIED 90NE95)        ..         ..        MA.W7*
POOD AMI IOKTfII
INDEX OF FDOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     98.0      100.0       100.0             113.0                  1084
PER CAPTA SUPPLY or
CALORIES (Z OP RMJIRI3ENIS)     95.0        96.0      105.0             111.3                  129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS Pm  DAT)        47.0       47.0        34.0              67.9                   92.3
or WHICR ARD. AND PltLSC       23.0        26.0       21.0/c            34.1                   34.6
CIILD,(AGES 1-4) DEATR RATE       20.0       10.1         5.3              5.3                    10.4
=S-IR
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     3D.9       56.6        61.9              64.6                   67.2
INFANT MOT. RATE (PO  THOUS)     119.5       90.0       66.4              62.6                    71.4
ACCESS To SAFE DATER (2PO?)
TOTAL                            L.1/d      37.0       55.0/.            64.8
URBAN                           22.97;      72.o      8a.0o              77.5
RUN&                             1.471      14.0       27.07r            44.3
ACCSS TO EXCIETA DISPOML
(I OP POPULATION)
TOTA                              *-        58.0       62.0/e            54.6
URBAN                             ..        63.0       7&.o7             69.3
RURAL                             *-        54.D       16.07a            29.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        8220.04   2070.0       6020.0/f          1776.0                 1094.8
POP. PEtR NUSIZE PERSON             *.      1920.0     2150.07f          1012.2                  762.5
POP. PER HOSPI'TAL .D 
TOTA.                          400.0       340.0         ..             477.0                  334.0
URBAN                             *-       220.0         *-             647.5                  216.0
RURAL                             ..      2610.          ..            1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL SED         ..       33.0/h        ..              27.2                   20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF 1111EHEJID
TTAL                              5.0        5.2
URBA                             4.3         5.0
RURAL                            5.1         5.3
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOK
TOTAL                            2.0         1.5
URBAN                            1.6         1.2
RURAL                            2.2         1.8
ACCESs TO ELECT. (2 or DwELLINCS)
TOTAL                            20.0       36.8
URBN                            57.7        76.3
RURO                             3.0        10.7



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I
- TSABLEz 3A                            Page  2  of  5
DOMINICAN RKP          -S .AL t.NDnAcSa   DATA ShfT    -      
DONIiCAN REP.                        WERE=  CROUPS (SlaNTWD
POST                     (ONT StCO  ESTIATE) /b
RtUt~~~~o                          M   Lit r tco
146z1!5    19JO b E=.,.3    (AT.                  33AN1 3313 CARI)
EDUCATION
ADJUSTSED EMIOLLMENY RATIOS
PRIrARY:  TOTAL                  96.e        95.0      106.0             105.0                    102.2
MALE                   99.0       '5.0       103.0             106.3                   107.Z
MALE                   91.0       96 .0      I07.o             103.6                    97.3
SEConDARY: TOL                    7.0        20.0       32.0/i            40.0                     56.5
MALZ                    7         20.0        32.670            33.6                    63.6
FINALE                  700       20.0        33.07!            41.2                    *S.9
VOCATIONAL CZ OF SECONDARY)        62.3         9.5        7.9/e            34.0                     22.6
PUPDI-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          58.0        55.0       50.01/            3D.7                     24.7
SECDNDARY                        16.0        27.0         ..               15.7                    22.1
ADULT LITrRACY RATE (1)            64.3        67.2       67.0               79.5                    69.7
PASSENCERCARSITNOIISA  POP          3.6        9.8        17.711            45.6                    S2.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP       33.5       40.9        *0.3             220.2                 * 16S.5
TV RCIIVERnS/TIOUSANlD POP          3.2        25.0       70.9              10t.3                   12A.2
NESPAPER C(DA;LY CERAL
IRTERESr) C1tRCLATtON
PER TIISAND POPUATIO              26.9        36.3       41.7               4A.1                    965.
CIEA ANNA ATTENDASCE/CAPITA         1.7         1.2        1.4/a             2.9                      2.9
TOTAL LABOR FORCE TOllUS)         854.0      1060.0     133S.0
FE.ALE (PERCENT)                 10.5        11.1       12.4              243                     3S4.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENr)            66.5        61.2       49.0              31.3                    60.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               12.2       14.0        16.0              23.9                    23.4
PAmCIPATION RATE CPERCENT)
TOMn                             23.0        26.3       27.9               31.3                    42.0
MALE                             49.6        46.3 5      3.2              49.3                     53.2
riNALE                            6.0         5.9        7. 0             14.8                    29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.3         2.0        1.7               1.4                     0.9
IUKE DISTRIIDlO
PERCNT OF PRIVATE INCOKE
REcEIVED B
NICEST 52 Or HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..         ..
LIOEST 20S OF ROUSEHOLDS                                 S47Olf
LOEsT 2t'S or NetlelasJ                                 6.37F
LOWEST 0Z or NousEHoLDs           ..          ..       16.5                 ....
muVte TARGET CROUP
ESrTATED ABSOLUTE POVRTY INCOME
LEfi (D5 PER CAPITA)
URIAN                                                  451.0/1            239.5
RURAL                                                  263.07T            184.5
ESTIATED R.ATrVE POVERrTT I E
LEMF (ffS5 PER CAPITA)
IRS3A                              .                   26R.071           519.8
RURAL                                                  1B .o7l           372.1                   409.0
ESrTIATED POP. RELO ARSoLUTE
POVERT? INCOME LEVEL CZ)
URBAN                              ''          ''       45.0/1
RURAL                              '           '.       43.7i
NOT AVAILABLE
1,0' APPLICABLE
N OT  E S
/a The group averages for each Indicator are populatuon-iaiahted arith_etic manns. Cowerage of cantriam asses  the
LndIcator, depends on availability of du  t- sd Ls not uniform.
lb Unless otherwise noted. 'Oats for 1960- refer to any war botwme  1959 and 1961; atel for 1970' botern  1969 oud
197t; and data for "'ost Recent Eatitte' betwm  1979 and 1931.
/c  1977; /d Percent of houstr4 units with piped wter only; /a 1975; If 1975; f  1962; lb 1972; /I 1973.
Ity 1963



cAl   A                                                                                                                   ...c.tap   ..ent:. pat atpeaad
[Viciaaac(t  pee awAits a;mcsa                                                         l-d S. -   tq3 a. etetASa tacaa-aae  Sq  Vral-  p. VaIsa. meq
we  taqan  wn~l - (.tlettdc  a- w.kv :A xARcT nM-sat! V  Aar aa
-~~~~                c ~~~~~S5~I  eameciaadcstmq. *p.ed  ..eq3a   PIa-a-w Vtqa p ac-         t
wtwt*   Iptl:i .'ta                 ,egaadtr a. a.csa   T-yaa p.,                       sazsaila ACawdc P--.. 1-I-calcqctC   ma. lean  aI  .-..a
-ta.' M- tccilI  il ta!Stfeea;'.nc    esledpas-ael                                            se  jo-a,a -;qacm-a I';I3P  Uclamq -  p.sM-ia    tq SA- aaq . C
acci ewe.; buts3  It  -e aamitll .cJ acatcpc mil.It   e                                       -stao   an.i-a- am -:eses  adpe-a  - alia-ci s,Iwd C        -e  qi
adte.4 ac  cea..-j   aq-c  jj.c;             ,c  S.cedentac.  m.                             a   eaM   laccqasi pasad VVJtei   al       ic.s            pcsclclc
- aRIpafiqe-  tleti twt  c~    sl  aae~-at.  ~.ae                                                e              a  la  se. pc.a;Z -.P-T;) 51i.'.an
- ;esa  p.. eqie -  eaw&al 5.4  ee) w-a sin.!. pasatd ...icem     pl.ac:qtaipeecaii   qap;CC   --(p.dta set) taq Of                               ;eLcimaa
at es   3p tcid Pm .e *san   or saaeNacsat4?taal   atidbdcwaap  id.. tar                                             11 " dess  at  amiacw .ap at .-..feA pal deei at
S teitl AR P.e;-a,   - (lnP.11 pea mice.ci.t.  .twce.     .t.e.a..                           -T pa`-c15; .ad twin, 1we    - jP.iE . lS0  ci-e mis-a (tI -nF.) VIM
- _ac  latetlc  -i  cia a             -Jata   ctw  a;Vs  SF   q PVacas  'PI-a dtw  .Sp  VlIssa a. Vc eanT tale  J.
v  -1acit Ala3 v--1 P- 'ealte1ntcd twi J- c-iesala N11 ece-le  nawsewla                           Ca P.- pceattci  wela it cast C~ .  -a .Cci am  i..cn eac aca.p
aclbatCwaedwaza  coUZ  at PeaVaba -i. aeL  *n.p  Ift pa. u-f0,        4ml                           aa%cV.a    3--eli  iTelc  ci fleec   ma11 ow mia1ww  je 'acV%ads te;
ic.lassd.a. aA-   - we 11 A. wcae  ct-I p. . cp    ;.an Ic e.ccaa.sa                         p.c tes t "    ac or pee Sep tad c;caad Tc_c  Jt  -aea  Dl)  atl"        af
if tewaidlltuie  - s;ac.a pa. e-tc  lcws-  - ca-sta) Mian-, ea  taat"1"                          caomi -   acTiap a  p.1 P-ia A;e. ate  -Aw I"tpe   efdca
'a easeil P.c               -~fide . td ae aaect c;caj - (Aep  aai)elctjc.tcttt*d
e   taacc  pT;1-  it mt=cac  at ei P.. sea-, qaaaaas'c                                                         cP a    .   a   nttltc    ia la
Ublialcicte eawlflheat add  a  tafl cmi L - (lanS)  flae.1                    tonecssiO  eawe   ~awvaatj  awmwei   a   .   c
blaJn    ta   acleea.acc   swcq I...at esa-dd-t XIt  Sit-a    Vs Vtit.taada   el  -I  ata.cSt.
p.ec  Ipecel  ecaic  cala  A .ata.cc  -m  P..attsia)c5ic5AlyfItcsj                       as  palS.'- (aa.aalbc  aedd  Icatc -%a.atie  It-. &P-e eltc  Ld-
I.' sImtIlt cg  ea pea  - secj.m  etta, ace aepectaca-cap etelt  -i   aP.-  Licewa -S96 a-2 aclapac    e.waci saa        - ie -c ,.-a et  pa
'icc'.  aw   mmc aatt  caceda a  a;..Awwer tliatp. pate acp. a-a aa-a.P.t d .anaVI -                           .e CPaV-  -a teti i  tatac,-
tlp.lc       paapald. wci              mttltiei   -;lte W It altnil                                                                                        eaflu  e  tE
ceiceqi   al1  -  --4atitt  pe'Oq   at   tlceiliaa                                                                     'd.j at il c A s.c. '4 ee- pats   tIe
am Wctaamitaa -"teSataciaec   .iea   at                      laeaactstI  imi I _,;-(Ip.a st t-d- n                                         Pectav-awel   ta
tlPflIc caaaiacwfl eIp cCaS d  p.c  clilnlcS  ; cicatae  paetw -.dill;
-1"J-d~ Vq w- A-  _aVA I.__ "I Pd,t                                                                 -atapIclIpee '3jstnelttectatat-  see
Vvrea 1.  -.P Vat" -1 p-    -T            P.-c      pe.cq  td  wan  .t  ;aq     (.,atwtac)  t                                              4 qsi aas
aa .(at pIaptet=      ti)alp   altl-iiSifa Ztli   s1c5 da.'miia-Pc cclet 'sIcctti. -- -Vant . i - (.ta    l.maac   at3c
P.. aVt                    d    ~~-t-Iba.dea-I-L~                                                                .3. tss-oti . DG '     0w-M 1 -i aactetd dsa
2-ac    WMa aw aamec   efcsa5wppat-laIScpls   .   tpad-ca.a Je *cte  att t..W.3.* - wld-  acIsa) ll                                                       sc) e.cllala1tlmd
Mp-ta~end  mifpaaaea   ns'a ST P"alep.l- 'tacsaaci;-t  ate__wmiac  '(ascS t-4lmebtmi P- 'acetatc I                                             asta   lae
(-I..atlllecl Imlicle  'I-(ac.s   c Itsit  asac icica letawacate                                                                   -ca   tell 60rma tn i   t  S
-ppitcStet.iptteel.tc   ad cdacqaV4l  v- 'ecata-m  p.e   taclCsa                                              -a'f  e
Via  Vsace _Vanapatcti   ee   P-P eaPt p1  At 21s           . Altea  a;te              -raep 041 pee '6141 1--                                  '13141 !.'aWs _13c3p
iiiatlttsa ai icletes  acit   t'aala.   * iafltc V-att,Al                         Aa(f         . CD)  tS tid Vj. astmtettdiSPi -
Sipat" Itaaa   atdca-  lclp   dcc 'tasc._           i                                                                                 _ eaSc.c  Pasca.l ' . Deta ala cawlact-
scalid(0   -pccsc  Scalactiina             Li -tctp    ltZeae  mAat" aTt.d _s -t~&I  P.aal.s el6                                                     ae   sl
`i-  "%_pim ceap tmi  a.j_tt AlCl.Imclttd  btaa  Laa_icaal   nsra     isP ct-mi taiad                                               ac~at-tl alPae
.Vid               ~~~~c-a n  - t p.  cnnetalcit'   laatsAl  i at
-eI.  ip.c -ain. - geas    tT- Lcitpa   niS    aSiil   tetp                               AIled tact pee 1 v -rc  tacl j. n Palpcl- Stt -it ammle te tacac"
J. ..v-.d  ~       ~        ~       ase  latisaa-tc   cq  acal a-a                                    cad Is-.,la -td"   esci    -.ti       4-ct
p.. cataeic atecad-c   watccCUctta   -SFlwatca                                      MPlmp(f  Vac  -ietCaalel   sactit   'IleCcjpc'e.taaateae
aqm  Castac ~a.aa pea -atia 'telec -ccci itS aaclcd jt atla .' tica        Vatil t11- eaaidac AT-c PSattatac  tiq atamIat  _TatscdA  Aaaaf
at pip.tal ~mi ea Sat t ha itpe1 a. epsatmip  'atm   wa is  a             test 1   p.10 sqz-r It.caltri  eat" setta  l.'cia     - wog ae.  ecu -twV%d
weapaatw           - ea    - Ip.ieJwa . tAeal11 it-stea-set  p;cqatlJ.qWacPta  1aaie.q                                  .1ei-pls  p -a 'LI  'Oittawidc ftc
As - P-611-P 1- 3---)         M     a-a-M                TV clap   P. attqatte   lat- e - aa cane. Aaqzt  .1 na1aa7ipaaclp
."  "id-                       .1-1~ctacwc   Icie  at4 -ait. Vsc ala -icssj..Ji .Icaltet  aetttdmmi
IMnaAA_  .1d.-apm   ci   eq    s             .wedrti-  mVuA    -ts    t.ii  3s                                              -.da i                   T-ca
'lm    c.""Aa"'pasd t-3-3Ic Cleiical          'AliujP    i                                    -   13F-- peaacstA O        .5Zt . Wie   I  oltt
Meacaeta Aacaaaw   tecpa   a aCflet  teici J.    W .1. ;ea I ateald...1-..  VI.Jd                                                      ~
catis  tatcla   e    inwtte a-.  ac UcC  ettal  P  pa-                    tlctaa5   sir;a,alth                               ..t P Jc 6 Cacitlt '  (S ulStal  eiw        .
p.c t~tle.mi tp.act 'sttlcq  'atelda.. teta..'.lp.dldsteJci. fla
pe   cld.    .elelt   pa -tCitetasepesw-a   tilaa                                    eat  tieltas              llc       astdaa s.d  m - fltaYi id  Ciut
'telca  . ttlCt4) -  teaLR p.qFA..A3- .   -                       j.p                                       .               -ema  tac  -  attCiii   iIiicsm1i  aa Wm t palAades,lm
p.c etsf wataatai   atcle  iscaaca 'aasec  umepea  atmaI- pe  t.           Awa'aa   c  waccapaeaCl attsc   'cTueac P-  'DaltacDosW
-t".AactLtttaa   et   mlp                       JaJl,.l'aa                                2'tntV la ticlc  at    paV WMt  tentR Wittie  ecic3lt1Ia eAaS P-iea..1
tetwalliP-am aWm Lw palateeatsetcdm   - ii3jijiiatsccAi                              -wd3Mtad'a3    a,_-i-.Aa    -c(SI5a paLld l Rdte
.Va  gj. J;p!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-amatcteac
p.c b dtla14ca qatai  eleIa ilcp.l  - A           c alca al   tid As  tt~.   lcetitas    c~-qaec  eet.  e   ca,eceetet   lp;.
ala i   came'atlela   t .   apidSwlelmcal      eedp  iaCloutItenalace  atPitatq   as    ttat.lte  m   aa   e te5
ca   wita.e a   ia Sttcra  'al. Ale.  tcqc  .. acct~p.  ~eccsc~ acs itinaliepaIwln eflctscd  ie etescacalt ecp dmsa ce.acittcit a    (amttcIll
tacatel    aital  I  initi  acl  t  at  cipI  pe   Ils,w~ui Aact plN   dse  dcci! aaAatiS tP-    -     'iq~   e    tet)Sliaaem
I XNN                                                                       -   -     JiUIrIIVAV AlopdDO11                                                         ISJU- I  '



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 21 -~~~~~~~~~r -*-r   
AlhIf I
Pae  f  5
DOIIIICAR lUPUSLIC - iCaMoIC DATA
GRlDS                                                            ANNO   P W30cT    1A   OF GRoWrT (2 tn conetatit prices)
tl3$ llillion  S                    1960-75      1970-75        1975-Q2
GW at market Priceo                1,159.6   100.0                    6.1          9.2            4.0
Croi. Do_aatdc InVot*ft            1,665.0    21.                   13.4         17.6            5.9
Crocr latonda Savioga              1.231.0    15.9                    4.7         16.0           -0.2
Curr.nt Account lacs                441.9      5.7                    -            -               -
Eport of Goods, FFS                I. It.6    14.7                    3.5 t.1                    0.8
Import of Coodn. Ws                1534.6    19.6                    4.37       1I.5            -1.4
OuTPuT mD  PRODUCVITT IN 1962
(consultant 1970 prie.)
Value  de
Ulf Nillion      S x
Dgriculturs. forestry 4id o  n4hig   530.0    17.4
MLning                                90.9     3.0
Iodustry                            111.9    26.6
Service                            1 61,16.3    53.0
Total                            IL09.
Ceeral   r_t                       Central Covernmnt
0 92 Ml O        5 of a1" Hi                       t5 o a   98Z
Current Receipts                     750.0    21.6       9.4              73S.4      18.2    9.2
Current Expeoditursn                 952.6     8.5      11.9              778.5       6.0    9.7
Curtent Surplut(+) or Deftctt (-)   -202.6    13.1      -2.5              -43.1      10.2   -0.5
CAPlii Kxpcoditursu                 269.5    11.6        3.4              194.4       9.1    2.4
External Aesietanae (Cat)            98.6      U.S.      1.2               48.4       0.3    0.6
KONEY, CRDIT AND PR3SCS
190            1977        1974     1979         1980         1961       1982
CDlM   lion outsntading HT;T Psriod)
Money and QuASI-Mony                         283.7          1,240.9    1,376.0   1,653.1    1,603.0        2.064.3     2,353.0
lAnk Credit to Public Sector                 213.1            30z.B      426.7      552.8       652.8        995.6     1,379.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                174.9            779.2       628.9     693.1    1,044.5       1,019.9      1,113.5
(Parcentmsn or Index  mlbers)
Money and Quai-obnsy as I of CUP              19.1             27.1        29.1      29.9        27.1         27.3        29.4
onAgs t Prie- Index (lase 1976-77.100)        57.0            100.0       107.1     116.9       136.3        146.8       159.0
Conaser Price Index eI
Annual Percentage Olaqos                   3.8              8.7         7.1       9.2        16.6          7.7         7.6
Bank Credit to Pubice Sector an of 2 of CDPI   14.6             6.6         9.0      10.0         9.8         13.2        17.2
11ank Credit to Private Sector as of S of GOP   11.1           17.0       17.5       16.2        15.7         13.5        13.9
Xboyber 1963



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
Dmmmlmmx- mm -W - QIITA fl
IALM-r                                                                                             _ 143  - E-    Cbuaw 1978-2)
196    17       13    197       Lq3     M1    192 11                         DSS Jfffk                           2
29L3        33.0
Bowet ff  0. Ws             1O      91.9    32.  1,14.9  1,7.3  1,512.6  1,14.8 LIIee                                             79.6         9.0
Pi c  of Com. W                      1..1 W   1.0 1                                             mc a                              61.2         6.9
binaca CGop CddIZat                 ii   --)Eu         A    -44 .4_n _ 3*9 -                   mb-                                46.5         5.3
1mgno.tckw1                        86.7         9.6
bAt Facto me..             -123.8  -123A    -37  -1.7  -210.2  -293.1  -256.1                  a                                 165.5        15.7
Net MfMM                    46.5    50.1    149.3   25i8   IA    193.0   20.0          f        tfh 15M.                                     17.5
cM.    accu  ReLin        -241.-   -4.         M-31W   331.3  469W.  -.405.9                      TOW                            9F3.7       100.0
ZE L    r. SEUI_ 30. lISt 1S IISll
Di.ct DtUp   1oct 60.0    45.9                39.6   -13      62.7    79.7    -L4
a t 6. Reea1                93.3   106.3      97.7   1.7  252J   153.6   29S-.                 A&Ikc R e lbt -rdui1rf  97ui            1,747J1
-Eufr.2                 C131.3  (150.)  C1-7) 061-7) 06.n () n0.   C356.5)                   at-     teis a pivate et                M2A 32,
_ctigag1aa               03.0   (46.2    S.0) G0M.   (129.5) (16n0   C50.7)                Tata* O1eAursejb35,9S5.9
iw      .    4. III45.    15                79.5    29.5   236.6    21.7   -73.1      1     am  mwxi ItrAO N  192
a  c Iet binzm
C- - ia,,,,3              43.2   -71.2    95.1    87.5   U7.8   150.9   310.6               ItbUc Bbt. kali     =axtead *1             24.6
atow4hmmotand ftlvat. Db t
czea Fug..a                 16S.0   224.0    1993   339A    402.5   555.    20r,               Total OatstLng  d 0eWbwmedS/              54.0
set Rest..                  -11.0    60.2   -34.9  -12L4  -280.2  -3911  -7L0
mei =a weaited ibteelals
1L0.0   17.7    199.0   314.9    48.9   4W74       Ua.             IU3IU 1        (Dcme 31. 12            M 3lS IM
stetind  and '30d37.6
Ibd1^r1d                                 148.9
0zsatm1a  kaljdhu uniahbaed              236.5
i1     Registered: uargast.rud prlwae debt could mo   ta  duplUcAte thbs in_at.
B      Inclg  sEms
41     only muika- ani 1wn-teza..
S'     l  _des a .tiw for ubort-cu debt.
wwber 1963



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 23 -
ANNE II
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SIAIUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC I/
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT (as of September 30, 1983)
Loan or
Credit                                              US$ Million
Number Year       Borrower        Purpose   Amount (Less cancellation)
Bank    IDA      Undis.
One loan and three credits fully disbursed      79.9      22.1 2/  -
1142-DO 1975  Dominican Republic  Education II   8.0                1.0
1655-DO 1979  Dominican Republic  Irrigation II 27.0               21.3
1699-DO 1979  Central Bank        Tourism II    25.0               15.8
1760-DO 1979  State Sugar Gouncil Sugar Rehab. 35.0                34.1
1783-DO 1980  Dominican Republic  Emergency Rd. 25.0                0.0
1784-DO 1980  Dominican Republic Highways II   35.0                 8.5
2023-DO 1981  Dominican Republic  Coffee and
Cocoa Rehab. 24.0               22.0
2104-DO 1982  Dominican Republic  Sites and
Services      25.4              23.5
2292-Do 1982 Dominican Republic  Sto. Domingo
Municipality   7.1               7.1
Total                            291.4     22.1
of which has been repaid        22.1      0.3
Total now outstanding            269.3     21.8
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                  -
Total now held by Bank and IDA   269.3     21.8  ./
Total Undisbursed                                    133.3
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank#IDA financed projects in execution, wnicb is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/ With exchange adjustment.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 24 -
ANNX II
Page 2 of 2
B.      ST        OF IJFC INVESTIENTS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                Tpe of    Amunt in US$ Milliou
Year         Borrower                Business    Loan Equity   Total
1971    Cementoa Nacionales, S.A.   Construction
Material     6.0   1.7       7.7
1978    Finaciera Enpresarial, S.A  Industrial
Credit       3.0   _         3.0 1/
1983   Productora Nacional de
Algodon.                    Cotton
Cultivation  4.0   1.0       5.0
1984    Compania Doujnicaa de      Money and
Leasing, S.A.              Capital
Market       3.0  0.2        3.2
Total Gross Coits                        16.0  2.9      18.9
Less Repayments and
Cancellations                           6.5  -         6.5
Zotal Commitments now beld
by IFC                                 9.5  2.9      12.4
Total Undisbursed                         7.0   1.1      8.1
I/ Cancelled



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
ITrAO COAL TERMIRNAL POWER AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.      Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Project Preparation
Project Prepared by:                        CDE and Bank staff
Initial Request for Bank Financing:         November 1982
(b)   Appraisal Mission:                          June 1983
(c)   Negotiations Completed:                     October 1983
{d)   Loan Effectiveness Planned:                 March 1984
II.     Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a)  Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, between the Goveroment (Borrower) and CDE (Beneficiary)
(para.51 ).
2. Project Conditions:
(a) CDE would maintain, throughout the project implementation
a Project Unit. The Unit would be provided with experienced
staff and the necessary resources (paras. 55 and 56);
(b) CDE would apply appropriate environmental controls during
the temporary shipments of coal from the terminal to the
power station (para. 60).



- 26 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
ITABO COAL TERMINAL AND POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
Breakdown of Committed and Estimated Costs
(US Dollars)
1. Coal Terminal Study and Design
(a) Original PRC Engineering Contract 1/
(June 22, 1981 approved by IBRD telex Pug. 13, 1981)
1.  Feasibility Study .................... 430,241
2.  Detailed Engineering ................. 527,765
3.  Prequalifc. of Contractors . .......... 47,535
4.  Assistance in Contract Award ......... 49,636
5.  Field Surveys and Soil Tests ......... 160,000
Subtotal ............... e..o.1,215,177
Cb) Supplement #1 to PRC Engineering Contract
1.  Belt Conveyor Prelim. Design ........ 54,544
2. Self-unloading Vessel Alternative
ss final solution ............... .. 30,228
3. Additional cost of bulk materials
as interim solution ...............  33,600
Subtotal ....................    118,372
Cc) Supplement #2 to PRC Engineering Contract
1. Additional Subsurface Investigations
for Belt Conveyor ................. 205,000
2.  Property Acquisition Survey ......... 16,000
3. Additional cost of bulk materials
handling specialists .............. 52,000
Subtotal ..... 273,000
(d) Total Cost - Coal Terminal Study and Design                  1,606,549
1/ Financed in part by PPF 040 - US$500,000



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
2. Environmental Impact and Ash Handling Study
(a) EBASCO Contract of August 2, 1982 2/
(modified by letter of Nov. 19, 1982 and)
approved by IBRD telex of Jan. 18, 1983)
1.  Environmental Impact ................ 230,761
2.  Ash Disposal Study .................. 238,745
Subtotal ............. .................    469,506
(b) Supplement #1 to EBASCO Contract (estimates)
1. Mbnitoring of Interim and Final
Coal Supply Air Pollution ........ 305,00o
2. Detailed Engineering for
Ash Disposal .w**w.. .....*.... 280,000
Subtotal .................. o .... ....    585,000
(c) Total Cost - Environmental Impact and Ash Randling .......  1,054,506
3. Plant Rehabilitation Studies and TA
(a) Maintenance Supervision ............... 722.000
(b) Assistance by Equipment Specialists....350,000
(c)       Subtotal and Total   ....... ............. ....  1,072.000
4.  Losses Reduction
Total .........       ..................................... ...   262,000
5. Total Committed and estimated Costs          .........................  3,9952055
6.  Contingencies .......      ......................................    340,000
7. Front End Fee .....................                                  9,476
8.  Grand Total                             .........  ........  4,344,531
Less CDE Contributiont....                              546,000
PROPOSED AMOUNT OF ENGINEERING LOAN ...............  3,798.531
2/ Financed by PPF 056 - US$500,000



a 
MONTE CaSrl',-'-7~taidnga  -                -
/ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    0  oo
SA  NEIB
Resi                           DE LAS PATAS                      / - - l
f~ Ov,o  fr'n                                                            M -ILES.
d _   _2Loe Fmrlon         M15- Bf
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peto \'' -_ ) Vwj
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W I~                               fl- ,:  Flatv
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.wg. El ju 1'                          M
PEDERNALES.-
Cobo R/ySo
\   /g          0         2D        ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~40  6O KILOMETERS
oo _  0!t o ay~~~~~~~O ~
--v'ebd                                           20        40MILES
z~~~~~~~~~~ic aXxzb  odWMMudN rv theunIrol strtf on M re KC do rotb
17                                                      7r1



IBRD-16826
76-                                                 _        USA.                                    AUGUST 1983
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
m    HAINA  COAL TERMINAL PROJECT                                                                                  IAHAMAS
TRANSPORTATION  AND POW ER NETWORKS                                                         CUBA            DOMINICAN
REP
JAMAICA    HAITI?
MEXICO
L            .      tN                                                                    r  /7 HONDURAS
|                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUATEMALA'-. _,-r
|  ;   -                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COtOM8C>-7 
>.NAGUA                                               6:L
-' SAN FRANCISCO                 NC                                                                                  R
-A-COR15,
Sa N         
- TU~I                            / n
: So nches  e    SAMANA
-  rCOTUI                                      '2  Sobana de la Mar
Undert Grande de Boya
it~13kMonto
POWER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,7A                                         Boca T
Under                                                oloosl-
Construction   In Operation                           MorAprt
-~~~~~~~~~~ H.r                                                    OhrAip 
- TERS      -j~                                (s 1Roads
/ES    ALA NSeo3n4                                                                 deundories
UnderRalod
Construction   In Operation
or                  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
TERS                                    GoOWRsLNT                  Rirods1
E T ERs                                         G as                      R iv e rs
LES                                     '     Steam                      Provincial Boundaries
Self Producers            International Boundaries
S..,                            ~~~~~~~~SUBSTATIONS
- a not
gyja,en-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



