LOAN NUMBER 2369 DO
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Itabo Coal Terminal and Power Engineering Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                         o213  ,1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2369 DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     c2  /19SY        between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (herein fter calle    the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
HEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of    the foreign   exchange cost of    the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Corporacion Domini-
cana de Electricidad (hereinafter called CDE) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to CDE the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CDE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General  Conditions   Applicable  to Loan   and  Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective   meanings  therein   set  forth  and   the  following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "CDE" means Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad,
a company established by the Borrower's Law No. 4114 dated
April 21, 1955 as amended to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and CDE of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CDE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated July 2, 1981 and September 3, 1981
between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(e) "Supplementary Project Preparation Advance" means the
project preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 22, 1982 and
January 14, 1983 between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The 'R k agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and condition.   n the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement,, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reason:ible cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) Promptly after Lhe Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay:
(i) the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date


﻿- 3 -
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwith-
drawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled; and
(ii) the principal amount of the Supplementary Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as
of such date and to pay all unpaid changes thre-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Supplementary Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
prumptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to nine thousand four hundred and seventy-six dollars
($9,476).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the.end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.07


﻿of this Agreement, including the Interest Veriod
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means: (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Administrator General of CDE is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the  General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)'Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause CDE to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of CDE therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable CDE to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿- 5 -
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
CDE under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and CDE, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank; which shall include, inter alia, the
same financial terms and conditions applicable to the Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Bor-
rower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision -o that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien


﻿-6-
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) CDE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that CDE will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)  Law No. 4115 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the ability of CDE to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CDE or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by CDE, if such creation,
acquisition or take-over would adversely affect the conduct of
CDE's business or CDE's financial situation in the efficiency of
CDE's management and personnel for the carrying out of the Pro-
ject;
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-7-
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower and CDE; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. '..e following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and CDE.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Secti-- 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by CDE, and is legally binding upon CDE in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CDE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CDE in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date                  o{ , /*5Jrl    , is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Secretariado Tecnico de la
Presidencia
Edificio para Oficinas
Gubernamentales
Santo Domingo
Republica Dominicana
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECTEC                             0140
Santo Domingo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  6   -Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'
Services
(a) for Parts A          1,200,000         100% of foreign
and B of the                           expenditures and
Project                                29% of local
expenditures
(b) for Part C           1,000,000         100% of foreign
of the Project                        expenditures
(c) for Part D of          250,000         100% of foreign
the Project                           expenditures
(2) Refunding of                500,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02
tion Advance                               (b)(i) of this
this Agreement
(3) Refunding of                500,000         Amount due under
Supplementary                              Section 2.02
Project Prepara-                           (b)(ii) of
tion Advance                               this Agreement
(4) Fee                           9,476         Amount due under
Section 2.04 (a)
of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated
340,524
TOTAL               3,800,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount no- exceeding the equivalent of $380,000, may be
made in respect of Category (1) (a) on account of expenditures
made before that date but after June 30, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to sucl Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which, in the opinion of the
Bank, are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the


﻿- 11 -
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   The carrying out of a feasibility study and, if war-
ranted, engineering design for a single berth coal
discharge wharf in the port of Haina and the transport
connection from such wharf to the storage yard of CDE's
Itabo power plant, including detailed engineering of
such facilities and preparation of tender documents for
the construction of such coal terminal.
Part B:   The carrying out of the engineering design for the
installation of an ash-handling system in the Haina
area, and an environmental impact study of coal opera-
tions (and ash handling) in such area and detailed
engineering of the installations required for the
transportation of ash from the Itabo plant to the
selected disposal site and for the final disposition of
ash at such site.
Part C:   Improvement of CDE's capacity for power generation
through the provision of technical assistance and
engineering for rehabilitation of CDE's thermoelectric-
generating plants, for the acquisition of spare parts,
and for upgrading the operating and maintenance proce-
dures of such thermoelectric-generating plants.
Part D:   Prevention  of CDE's losses    in the distribution of
power by means of provision of technical assistance for
the carrying out of a one-year program therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1988
through   September 15, 2000               145,000
On   March 15, 2001                             175,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollajr, equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                     1.00
-maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this d 3A     day of       , 198
FOR SECRETARY


