Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFC1AL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 5748 MLI   Type: (PM)
Title:  PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PRO.                 ReportNo.  P-5748-MLI
Author: ADOTEYE. P.
Ext. :35509 Rooin:J9 065 Dept. :AF5IE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.2 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROJECT
OCTOBER 16, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =     CFA Franc (CFAF)"
US$1.00          =     CFAF 250 V
CFAF 1 million   =     US$4,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APBEF   -  Association Professionnelle des Banques et des Etablissements Financiers
(Professional Association of Banks and Financial Establishments)
APEP      -  Association de Promotion de l'Entreprise Privde
ASAP      -  Agricultural Sechoir Adjustment Program/Project
BCEAO   -  Banque Centrale des Etats de i'Afrique de l'Ouest
REP       -  Bureau des Entreprises Publiques
(Public Enterprises Bureau)
BDM       -  Banque de Developpement du Mali
(Development Bank of Mali)
CCIM      -  Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie du Mali
(Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Mali)
CI        -  Chambre d'Industrie (Chamber of Industry)
DNAE    -  Direction Nationale des Affaires Economiques
PE        -  Public Enterprise
PESAP    -  Public Enterprises Sechoir Adjustment Program/Project
SCPCE    -  SociMt des Cheques Postaux et de la Caisse d 'Epargne
(Postal Checking and Savings Company)
SME       -  Small and Medium Enterprise
UMOA    -  Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
(West African Monetary Union)
' The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1.0 to CFAF 50.0.
The French Franc is currently floating.
v Exchange rate of September 30, 1992.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBUC OF MAU
PRIVATE SCOtASSrNE PROJECr
Crdt and Proect  5 _MM
Borrower:                   Republic of Mali
Beneficiaries:              Private enteaprises, professional associations, commercial banks,
'vernment agencies.
Ammnt:                      SDR 8.2 million (US$12 million equivalent)
Ternis                      Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlemndin TIM:              Not applicable
Mnancing Plan:    IDA           US$12.00 million
Beneficiaries ISS1.94 million
TOTAL   US$13.94 milion
Enomic Rate of Retwrn:   Not applicable
Staff Apgrabl Rq t:         Report No. 10459-MLI
1ag:                       IIBRD No. 23669
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDA3ION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO TH EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CRT TO MAU
JO   A  PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommationto a proposed
development credit to Mali for SDR 8.2 million, the equivalen of US$12 million, on standard IMA terms
with a marity of 40 years to help finance a project for private sector assistance.
Part I: Country Policies and Bank Grom's Assistance StatY'
Backeround and Rscent RageODMM
2.        Mali is a vast, land-locked, resource-poor country located in the Sahelian zone of Western
Africa. Only about a quarter of its 1.2 million square kilometers is arable. Nearly 90% of the
population, estimated at 8.5 millon in 1990, is dependent on the agricultural sector. Per capita income
was US$280 in 1991 and social indicators, such as life expectq  and literacy rate, are among the lowest
in the world. Population growth is estimated at 2.5% per annum (see para. 12). This County Assistance
Strategy Statement h an update of the one discussed by the Board on May 26, 992 in the context of tho
Natu  Resource Management Project.
-3.       Maxm-mic Trends. Mali's economic performance is highly consrained by a narrow
hilman and physical resource base, variable climate, and the legacy of inappropriate past policies.
Although per capita income has risen slowly over the 1980s, it remains one of the lowest in the world.
Real growth has averaged about 3.4% p.a. since 1985, but population growth has absorbed most of this
growth. The average GDP growth also mask large anl variations (see Table 1 below), which are
directy linked to cdimac condidons and Mali's dependence on agriculture. Agriculture genates just
under half of Malis GDP, with cereals and livestock production alone contributing more than one  ird
to total value added. Mali's industrial sector, mainly agro-bas, has remained small (about 6% of
GDP). A proming mining potential exists, but it has been litt1e exploited yet. The trade subsector,
develoied out of the traditional commercial activities, has become increasingly vibnt, but Is sdll
domiwted by infonral sctor activity.
4.        The adjusmt and stabilization efforts pursued by the Governm   since 1982 have
contributed to major improvement in macroeconomic magement. Tight fiscal policy, together with
the stuctural adjustment me    described below, and efforts to strengthen tax administration and
curtail tax vasion  butd to a sharp reduction in the overall fial deficit (excluding exten  grants)
from its peak of 13.9% of GDP in 1985 to 7.7% in 1990. The curre  fiscal balace has shown a surplus
since 1986. On the expendiure side, the wage bil has increased by about 2% per amnum in real terms
since 1985, whie allocations for material, supplies and mantenace expenditure, as well as for priority
sectos, such as ed on and healdth, have increased relative to GDP.
5.        Mali's external acounts have also improved significantiy since the mid-1980s. The deficit
F   7bb Country Aubtaice Strategy St8cea Is an update of the one dicussed by the Board on
May 26, 1992 in the contex of the Natura Resource M gement Project.



-2 -
in the current account (excluding offlcia transfers) fe;l from a peak of 28.5% of GDP in 1985 to 13.9%
in 1990. Export values - the main export commodities are coton, livestock and gold - Lave increased
by 7.4% per annum, while non-ereal imports hav, rie  by only 2.6% per annum. Capa inflows,
largely official deveopment assistance (equivalent to 23%  of GDP or US$57 per capia in 1989) to
finance the public investment program, have increased steadily, and the balance of payment has recorded
supluses since 1988, after more than a decade of consecutive deficits.
6.         Total public debt outstanding and disbursed was 97% of GDP at end-1990. Ihe debt service
ratio, bef    debt relief (excluding debt service to China and the former USSR), rose rapidly from the
early 1980s, peaked at 31% in 1986, and subsequently declined to 17.3% in 1991. External arrears
accumulated in the mid-1980s were totaly cleared by end-1989, primarily thrcugh debt relief from the
Paris Club and other bilateral credits.
7.         Inflation has been kept at less than 2% on average over the past five years. This has, given
the fixed exchange rate regime within the West Afican Monetary Union (WAMU), caused a slight
improvement in Mali's competkiveness relative to France. However, Mali's compettiveness vis-a-vis
its trading partners and competitos deteiorated in the second half of the 1980s.
TAME I
MUL: KU ncRiECa nc IWICATUS
(IN X)
99 im m5  in  i   nM7 1m 18  19                 Wk
OWTH RATES
GDP                           2.4  16.1  -2.4   0.2   7.5   2.4  -0.2    5.9   4.0   4.3
GOP/Capita                   -0.1   13.3  -4.6  -2.3   4.7  -0.4   -2.9   3.0    1.2   1.5
GDP Deflator                  3.2   -3.1   5.1   2.3  -0.2   0.7   1.4   1.5   2.5   2.5
DEBT SERVICE
Debt Servie&/XGNS (a)        21.0  30.9  27.5  28.3  27.3  21.8  17.3  21.4  21.1   21.6
RATIOS TO GDP
Gross Investment             17.9   20.7  21.9  20.1  21.0  22.2  22.5  22.4  22.5  22.5
Domestic Savings             -13.0  -1.1    5.9   2.4   4.9   5.6   6.0   6.4   8.0   9.2
Current Budbet Deficit       -0.2   1.7   1.0   0.0   2.3   1.?   2.0   0.6   2.9   3.1
Overall Budget Deficit (b)   .13.9  -11.3  -10.2  -9.9  -9.6  -7.7  -11.7  -10.3  -6.8  -6.0
EXTERNAL SECTOR
Export Volu.m Growth Rate    -22.8  9.1   6.1  -2.9  17.7   3.7  15.1   3.0   4.8   9.4
Import Volume Srowth Rate    19.1  -0.3  -0.3   8.0   3.9   7.8   8.S   -0.1    0.8   1.8
Current Accosmnt/DP          -28.5  -20.4  -14.9  -16.1  -14.1  -13.9  -13.7  -13.3  -12.0  -10.9
(a) Excluding Chine and the USSR; ncluding estiteos for interest on new disbursements.
(b) Excluding grants.



- 3 -
8.                          . Mali followed a 'stop-and-go policy' on economic reform measures
through 1987, but it has implemented a sustained adjustment progrm for the past 4 years, since the
approval of the fist PFP (1988-90). Its macroeconmic targets were largely met and the Implemenion
of the progam was supported by the Bank, the PFld, and other donors. Major structural reforms have
been implement  during this time that are fully consistent with the frst and second (1990-92) PFPs, in
particular on the regulatory framework, the tax system, foreign trade, the public enterprise -ector, and
the agricultural secor. All prices have been liberaized. All export and most import monopolies were
eliminated, export taxation was abolished and import taxation greaty simplified, and all quantitative trade
restrictions were abandoned. A value-added tax was successfully introduced and new investment,
commercial and labor codes were adopted.
9.        'he public enterprise sector, which despite its small contbution to GDP, used to incur
anmual losses of about $ 30 million, was largely restructured; this has included the effective privatizaton
of the main development bank and the postal checking system, the liquidation of the largest unprofitable
enterprises and the diveste of others. In the agricultural sector, cereals pricing and markeing were
liberalized, and in the cotton sector, which generates 50% of Mali's export eains, institutional, pricing
and taxation reforms were undertaken to increase efficiency and thus maintain its intrnadonal
competitiveness. To improve revenue collection and maragement of public expenditure, measures were
also taken to stregthen investment budgeting, integrate former annexed budgets and special funds into
the normal budgetary process, and start the restructuring of recurrent spending. Contiued reduction in
the number of government employees will reduce the weight of the wage bill and increase that of
recurrent spenig in priority areas.
10.               V. Economic performance in 1991 was weakened by political
events. Pressure for the introduction of a multi-party political system culminated in March 1991 with
the overthrow of the former government and the nomination of a transition government to organize multi-
party municipal, legisative and preside  elections. These elections were held between January 12 and
April 26, 1992 and the elected government took office in June 1992. The disruption of economic
actvities and destruction of some idusal and adminigive fecilities durng riots in early 1991, as well
as the armed conflict between government and the ethnic Tuaregs in the North of Mali throughout the
year. partily explain the weaker economic indicators for 1991. Poorer weadter conditions also
contrbuted to a fal in GDP.  The transition goverment did, however, qukly develop a new
macroeconomic framework, geared toward reestablishing macroeconomic balances, which was supported
by the Bank, the IMP and other donors. During the political transition, the adjustment program remained
essentially on track, with the important exception of the education sector (see below), and the revised
1991 targets were largely met. In July 1992, negotiations of a new PFP were finalized with the new
Govemment and the PPF was approved by the Bank and the Fund in late August 1992. Overall progress
on structural reforms continued to be satisftry in 1992. However, slippage in the financial program
occurred during the first half of 1992; as of June 1992, over CFAF S billion in extena arrears were
accumuated and financing through the bankig system had increased by more than CFAF 10 billion over
the progm  target This slippage was caused by extra-budgetary ouWs (notably related to public
works) as well as malversation by the Treasury. Faced with these unexpected setbacks, the new
Govenmen took quick ad decisive actions to stop the illegal activities and to recover part of the losses
and is comited to the condnuation of the adjustment program and the temination of fraud and
corruption in the administion. The economic oudook for 1992 is relatively favorable with a good
harvest expected this year and real GDP growth projected to increase by 5.9%, while the curreT account
defick is expected to derease slighlly to 13.3% of GDP.



-4-
11.      SgI Indig=. Lack of progress in the sodal sectors contrasts with the progress regarding
macroeconomic managemet Despte heavy investment by the Bank and other donors, Mali's indicators
for health and education are among the lowest in the world. In education, oveal prmarr school
enrollment has dropped to 31% (imcluding koanic schools) and 23% for girls. Ihe adult literacy rate
is 17%. Resources have been available to the education sector: in addition to donor funding of sector
investments, over one quarter of the govenmen's recurrent budget is spent on education. Inappropriate
sector policies, inclung overemphasis on expenditure for secondary and terty education, explain the
poor performance. Due to political pressure from vocal students, Government has not reallocated
education spenig towards primary educaton, an objective under the ongoing adjustment program.
Instead, it has increased scholarships for high school and university students. As a result, govemment
resources are insufficient to supply primay education to the rapidly growing popuion of children.
12.      Despite relatively high total private and public spending on health services, only 45% of the
population has access to health services. Life expectancy is only 45 years. Infat mortality i high
compared to African averages: 1 out of every 6 chldren dies in the first year of life and one out of 4
before the age of 5. Furthermore, chfld birth is the leading cause of death for women at child bearing
age. Although litdo is known about AIDS prevalence, it has not yet reached the alarming proportion of
some African countries, but AIDS could well spread rapidly without intervention, especialy given the
apparent growth of prostitution in Bamako. Effective preventive measures still need to be implemented.
Given a naturad population growth rate of 3.7%, and a net growth of about 2.5%, accouing for
outmigration (mostly to coastal countries and Europe), Mali's social indicators will worsen fiuther unless
concerted acdon contains population growth and tefocuses socia sector spending.
13.      Pvet  Despite rapid population growth, per capita income growth has been positive over
the past decade. As income growth has in large part been generated by the agriculural sector which
occupies 80% of the population, and by trading activity, concentrated in urban areas, t is estmated that
it has not geeated a wide disparity in incomes. There is, however, currently little knowledge about
income disibutin Mal, and surveys are underway. Soci services, while generally inadequate, are
paticuay poor in the sparsely populated aes of the North, whih were also most severely affected
by the drughts of the early 1980s and recendy by conflict between govenment forces and the Tuaregs.
While agricultural areas have probably benefitted from some of the adjustment measures, such as the
liberalization of agricultura prices and marketng, urban areas have suffered from a combination of
population growth of roughly double the national average and the reduction in public employmen due
to the closing down of non-viable public enterprises and downsizing of an Inflated bureaucracy. The
private sector has at the same time not grown rapidly enough to absorb the growing unemployed work
force. Ihe government has put In place, with donor assistance, s3fety nets to protect social groups dtat
are, at least temporarily adversely affectod by the adjustm  program, namely laid-off government and
public enterprise employees.
14.      m=                A crucial issue regarding Mls future development is the ongoing
degradation of its natural resources. Lad degradation, caued by a combination of factors, including
expson of farming to margina lands, overgrazing, inappropriate laws and regulations, and population
presre, is te most serous among the enviromental problems and has already led tO losses in soil
fertility in some areas, thus reducing agrical producdvity. Other serious problems are the
degradation of water resources and the reduction in bio-diversity. Whfle the Malian government has
elaborated a national plan to fight desertfication and launched many pilot schemes to improve natural
resource mnagement, t has not yet developed a fidl National Environmental Action Program (N")
(see para 19).



Meh-LTe Policies aRd Io
1S.      The Govenment strategy, as speled out in its recent PFP, aims at achieving susnable
growth in Mali's per capita Income and improvemet in its social conditions. It reogizes that central
reirments to reah these objectives will be (a) fouther improvements in incentives for private sector
development; (b) strengthening of public resource manaeent; (c) development of Mali's human
resources; and (d) betr management of its natural resources. The strategy is expected to lead to an
average real GDP growth of 4.6% per amnum during 199295, while inflation would remain low (2.5%
per amnnm) and a viable batance of payments would be obtained by 1995. Over the PFP tme frame, the
share of gross domestic investment in GDP would be maintaiaed at about 22% and domestic savings
would increase from 6.4% of GDP in 1992 to 10.3% in 1995. The fiscal deficit (excluding grants) would
be gradually reduced to 3.9% of GDP in 1995.
16.      Although Mail's physical resource base is limited, this growth is possible, even over the
medium-term dme horizon, with the implemenaion of reforms in the above four areas. Ihese reforms
will also lay the foundation for long-term growth, which is possible in Mali if it uses its exisfing resource
potei in a more effective and sustainable way. Mali's resource base for agricultural growth includes
the irrigation potential of the Niger river and its tributaries, relatively large areas suitable for rain-fed
agriculture and natural pastur ^ for livestock. Mali also has exploitable mineral reserves, in particular
gold. There is some prospect for growth in the artisanal sector and for industrial growth linked to the
agricultural sector, although prospects are limited by the small domestic market. Accelerated growth in
the secondary sector will, however, depend on progress towards regional integration, and on the ext
of improvement in Mali's international competitiveness. Future growth in any sector wil crtically
depend on the development of Mali's human resources through primary education and basic health care.
11.          1mP.of Extem al R mAm=. Given the importance of agriculture and of gold
mining to the Malian economy (output of both sectors contributed over 50% to GDP while cotton and
gold eort accted for about 63% of total exports in 1991), external factors that are likely to have a
significant impact on Mali's futre economic performance, are the downward trend in cotton and gold
prices on world makets and the increased desertication of the Sahel. The continuation of both trends
could adversely dfect agricultura output, exports and overall growth. Maceco nomic balances,
particularly fiscal and exten  sector balances could also be ewpected to deteriorate. This underscores
the importance of approprate naural resources management policies as well as domestic macro-economic
and sectoral policies in the ace of these eternal constraints.
18.      Agriculture wiUl remain the mainstay of the economy for the foreseeable future, and the
epected economic growth thus needs to be in la:ge part generated by the agricultura sector. Growth
in agriculture will require improvements in productivity, diversification of production and improved
naual resource manag            The agicltb  sector should benefit from already implemented reform
measures, including the liberalization of pricing and marketig and the restucuring of the coton and
cereals secetors, all of which have contributed to increasing  e incentves for farmers to raise producdvity
and tO improving the competitiveness of exports. The Government realizes that it wil be Important for
further growth to encourage the greater participation of fiamers, especially women, and village
associations in decisions regarding agricultural production and in the design and implemeIn of
agricultural policies. This in turn will require better information, traming, and extension, as well as
changes in land tenure legslation. The Govemment has already started to include famers directly in



-6 -
negotiations with the cotton company and the major rice producing paratatal.
19.      Ihe Govenment allso recognizes the need to improve the management of public resources in
the sector, by (i) streaming government services provided by rura development orgaons, (U)
strengtheing the management of the Office du Niger, Mali's main rice producer, (il) mainting
exitn   igation fcidities rather than extendig the network, (iv) imprving eension services to
frmers and herders across the country to enable them to inrease and diversify their producdon, (v)
pursuing a policy of decentralization of government services, which has already started with the granting
of geater autonomy to the northern Malian regions, and (vi) reorganizing research services to make them
more responsive to firmers' and herders' needs. Mali has been selected as a case study for the Special
Program for African Agricultura Research (SPAAR) initiative, aimed at promoting collaboratn in
research within the region, as well as speciization according to each muntry's comparative advantage.
Given that women perform a large share of farming activities in Mali, the Government noeds to develop
a strategy to better target its services L diem.
20.          NaW     ura       Managemnt. Direcdy linked to govrnmen's agricultural strategy is
its objective to fight enviromental degradation, in particular the most urgent problem of soil degradation.
Realizing the threat natural resource degradation poses for long-term growdt in production, the Malian
governmet has shon a serious commitnt to tackling this problem. To reverse the process of
degradation, measures will be needed on many fronts, including the development of new solutions to land
tenure leslaton, training on more appropriate firming practices, the development of economic and
technological alternatives to current agricultura and livestock activities, information and awareness
building, iuton              , and a population policy. Having prepared a plan for desrtfication
control in the lae 1980s, which includes separate programs for the most important sectors, goverment
is now developing an itegrated natural resource management program for the agricultural, pastoral and
forestry sectors. This program ams at enabling and responsibilizing local communities to better manage
their own natr resources. Government has also expressed an interest in preparing, as a net step, a
full NEAP, incorporatg, but going beyond natural resource management. It has already accepted the
prnciple of etabling at the ministry of agriculture, livestock and environment a unit that could monitor
the development of a national enviromnta strategy.
21.      Hmn Resces. Mali's long-tem development prospects depend critically
on substan  icreases in the level of leracy and a healthy population. Governme  is now putting in
place, an emergency program for primary education, developed together with IDA, to increase schcol
enrollment and thereby the liteacy rate. Thi program wmi include the extension of double shift teaching
to increase cost effectiveness, an increase in the number of multi-grade classes in rural areas, limitation
of class repetition to 10%, and re-deployment of teaching personnel. From 1993 on, enrollment in
secondary and higher education will be limited depenin  on budgetary resources and the capacity of the
educatonal system, in order to raise quaiity. Following the 1991/92 increase, scholarship expendue
will be reduced grdually over the next three years through greater selectivity in attribution, thus freeig
resources to increase support to prmay education. By 1994, 45% of the education sector budget should
be spent on primary educaion. Govenment will at the same time revise curricula and improve teacher
training.
22.      To Improve health services, Goverment has already liberalized the setftig up of pharmacies
and medical practies. It has also liberaized the import and distrbution of phamaceutical products, in
order to reduce costs and thus improve the utilization of available fnancial resources. A policy to
encourage for the fitst time the import of essential drugs in generic form was introduced last year. The



- 7 -
government's future strategy in the health sector aims at fostering greater decetralization in health care
provision, letting local communities manage their own health centers, in close collaboration with the
private sector. Government efforts will be concentated on overall sector policy and support services
rather than on direct service provision. At the same time, t'he share of the govemnment's recurrent budget
going to health cdre is to be gradually increased, while cost recovery will be further encouraged.
23.       Realizing that rapid population growth poses severe constraints to raising living standards,
threatens to cause further deterioration of the country's fagile natural resources, and already endangers
the lives of many women and children, the Government has drafted a population policy. This policy,
which includes actions regarding the availability and quality of family planning services and the protection
of women and children, will be put in place shortly. The Government will also work closely with
women's associations in designig action programs to integrate women more fully in all economic
activities, including legal reforms, training, education, as well as access to services and credit.
24.       Private Sector Development. A key determinant of Mali's future growth, short- and long-
term, wfll be a policy framework fostering private sector activity, not only in the agricultural sector, but
increasingly in the currendy small industrial sector. Considerable progress has been made on
rationalizing economic incentives for private sector activity in the context of Mali's ongoing adjustment
program. To make the Malian economy more adaptable to market deielopmens thus improving its
competitiveness in the long-run, effort is now required to maintain and refine started reform measures,
and to assure that they are effectively applied. In particular, the Government intends to remove the
remaining constraints in the regulatory framework with a view to encouraging not only formal sector
economic activity but also the integration of the large informal sector. Important efforts include: making
commercal courts fiuly operaional in al regions of the country; harmonizing business laws and other
regulations among the countries of the monetary union in the context of the ongoing regional integration
efforts; pursuing more actively the disseminaion of information about recent reforms among economic
actors to make them more aware of and responsive to recent policy improvements; and undertaking the
instiutional reforms and strengthening necessary to ensure that the public  minison carries out its
new role of faciliatg rather than controlling economic activity. All of these measures will be
particularly important for the minig sector, given this sector's potental for future growth. They need
to be complemtd by sector-specific regulatory and institutional reforms, which are currendy being
developed.
25.       Public Igm= M       _U   . Improvements in the efficiency with which public resources
are mobilized and public services are delivered will be an important determinant of the responsiveness
of private economic operators to an improved incentive structure. After the relative success in dealing
with the sources of important past imbalances (largest public enterpries, the financial sector, poor
financial management), government's focus will now be on more efficient resource mobilization and on
the composition of public expenditure. The latter is key to dealing with longer-erm issues, particularly
human resources development, the provision of basic support services and the maintenance of public
infastructure, all needed to foster private sector growth. At the same tima, the restructuring 4-d
divestiture of the remaining public enterprises wi1l contimue. Regarding resource mobilization, there wilU
be a need for reform in direct taxation, for extension of the coverage of the recenty introduced value
adc id tax and for furter cost recovery.
26.       Ihe measures planned to adjust the composition of public expenditure aim at: (i) reducing the
relative share of the wage bill, currently still over 50% of total recurrent expenditure, to allow for more
adequate allocations to the priority expenditure categories; and (ii) increasing the share of spending on



-8-
health, primary education, matrial and supplies, and road maintenance. This can be achieved through,
among other meaes, a reduction In the number of government employees, by implementing voluntary
departure and early redrement programs. To increase the efficiency in public investment expendit and
better provide the infrastructure required for faster private sector growth and hulman resource
development, Government is aware of the need to strengthen the process of planning and monitoring
investment spending, which Is overwhelmingly financed by foreign donora. This will require in particular
strengthening of the capacity of the concered Institutions.
27.      Improved public resources managment will be cruciao w assure the availability of basic
infrastructure necessary for the projected growth of Mali's p 'vate sector. Key will be the adequate
maintenance of the existing transport, electricity, and telecommunications networks, and of other basic
Inastructure such as irrigation or sewerage systems, complemented by targeted new investments to
directly support the private sector stFategy.
BnRk G        AssitnStU=y
28.      Ps IDA astanc. !DA assistance for Mali became increasingly policy oriented over the
1980s, first through the inclusion of reform measures in investment projects, and since 1988, through two
adjustment operations and two "hybrid" operations in agriculture and education. At the same time, IDA
continued to fiace investment operations in support of the major sectors, in particular agriculture and
human resources. The lending volume averaged US$76 million over the past five years for an average
of two projects per year. Adjustment was supporied by 37% of total committed resources over that
period. Agriculture received 39% of total resources, human resources 14%, industry/energy 23%, and
infrastructure 5% (see Table 2). There are 16 projects currently under implementation (12 of which were
approved over the past five years) with an undisbursed balance of US$312 million. Performance in these
operations has been mixed. While performance on adjustment has generally been satisfactory, with the
exception of the education sector, implementation of investment operations often suffered from long
delays in procurement, non-compliance with project covenants, and weak implementation capacity. The
disbursement ratio has baen about 23% on average over the past five years.
TABLE 2
MALI
lDA LNDING FY88-FY92
Amount Share of      Number of olw Adjustment support
(in USSM) Total       Projec    (in US$M)
Agriculture                     146.6    39%           4         25.0
hdustry and Energ                88.5     23%          4         40.0
Human Resources                  52.6     14%          2         3.0
Infrastructure                   20.0      5%          1         -
Strucural Adjustment             70.0     19%          1         70.0
TOTAL                     377.7    100%          12        138.0



-9 -
29.      Priorities for IOA. The overriding objective of IDA's strategy in Mali is the alleviation of
poverty through growth in per capita income and improvement in social services. Given Mali's progress
in short-tem economic management over the past few years, IDA's co ;ntry strategy is now to focus on
key issues for longterm development, fully consistent with the Goverament's objectives as expressad in
the recent PFP, and to support government's efforts to: (a) foster private sector growth, (b) improve
public resource management and (c) alleviate long-term piiysi'al and human resource constraints to
growth. This will require paricar assistance to strengthening Mali's relatively weak institutional
capacity across sectors, and to promoting the contribution of women to economic activity. IDA is also
working with the Central Bank of WAMU (BCEAO) to promote regional economic integration in the sub-
region. Aware of the limited margin of maneuver remaining within a purely national framework, Mali
has always fully participated in the efforts aiming at establishing an economic union in the context of the
strengthening of regional integration, notably bet-ween the WAMU countries. In this context, the
Government is contributing to the ongoing reflections to improve economic policy coordination, to
rationalize the institutious performing similar functions in the different countries of the Union, and to
harmonize the legal framework, particularly in the area of commercial law. Mali's constitution makes
specific reference to the possibility of giving up national sovereignty to achieve African unity.
30.      Egyrq. Given Mali's current low per capita income and the lack of reliable data on income
distribution, IDA's overall strategy aims at promoting broad based growth in production to alleviate
po:erty and improving the standard of living. To fill the information gap on income distribution,
household budget surveys will be carried out under the ongoing SAL and a monitoring system of welfare
will be set up. This will facilitate the development of a poverty strategy and the identification of targeted
programs in support of the poorest and most vulnerable groups among the generally poor populadon.
31.      Several IDA operations already have a particular focus on poverty alleviation. The policies
promoted through operations in the agricultural sector, including better extension services and research
to promote agricutural diversification, and incentives for farmers to increase food production, should
have a direct positive effect on food security, a key determinant of prverty. Policy reforms in the context
of the adjustment program and support from many donors and a very active NGO sector attempt to
generate employment and hs income through the creation of small-scale private enteprises. The
ongoing programs in the education and health sectors direcdy support the most vulnerable groups such
as women and children. The implion of a population policy in the context of the ongoing Health
Project should contribute to poverty alleviation in the long-run. In the short-tm, IDA is supporting the
government in reducing the social costs associated with certain adjustment measures: departing civil
servants and laid-off workers from public enterprises will continue to receive separation packages and
assistance in findig or creating private sector employment (project preparation, trainig and guarantee
funds); and the recent Public Works and E .-loyment Project will help absorb, at least temporarily, part
of the unemployed urban work force by means of labor-inensive technologies.
32.      To foser private sector growth, IDA's strategy is to support: (a) fiurher regulatory reforms,
through the ongoing SAL and the proposed Private Sector Assistance Project; (b) strengthening of
insutions that support the private sector, includig banks, through the present Project and the recent
Miinig Sector Capacty Building Project, (c) infrstructure invesnt to reduce transport costs and
increase the efficiency in urban areas so as to enhance Mali's competitiveness, through the recent Public
Works Project and a proposed Transport Sector Operation; (d) agriculturaw production growth through
investment in and reorganiztion of extension and research services through an ongoing sector hybrid
adjustmenti oestment operation and a planned Agricultural Research Project, and promotion of private
irigation schemes through a planned Irrigation Promotion Project, (e) develoPment of the agro-industria



- 10-
sector through a study on the agro-processing potential and a planned future project; (f) greater access
for women to all support services in the agricultural and industrial sectors, through specific components
in future projects based on findings of ongoing sector work; and (g) the promotion of greater regional
integration through ongoing sector work and assistance to WAMU institutions.
33.       To help Government design and implement a new strategy for this promising sector with
potential for rapid growth, a Mining Sector Capacity Building Project is focussing on the legislative,
economic, fiscal, institutional, artisanal and environmental aspects of the mining sector, restructuring of
the institutional framework, revision of legislation and procedures, and promotion of specific mineralized
areas to potential investors through, among other things, better availability of data on the sector
(organized and synthesized geological data on prospective mining areas).
34.       To improve public resources management, IDA's assistance will concentrate on: (a) further
reforms in taxation in the context of the ongoing SAL; (b) budget restructuring under the SAL, the
ongoing education sector operations, and an upcoming public expenditure review; (c) strengthening of
public investment budgeting through a public expenditure review and a planned Institutional Capacity
Building Project; (d) civil service reform aimed at limiting its cost while increasing its performance
through the SAL and the planned Ilstitutional Development Project; and (e? promoting more efficient use
of sectoral resources through all sector projects.
35.       To improve urban infrastructure facilities, a new Public Works and Employment Creation
Project is helping to absorb temporarily part of the unemployed work force by means of labor-intensive
technologies and should contribute to private sector development and employment creation and thus
poverty alleviation in the long-run. The Project will at the same time increase the productivity of
operations in Bamak and its vicinity by means of a program of urgently needed small-scale public works.
It should also demonstrate the feasibility of less cumbersome and more transparent procurement
procedures and contract administration thus making the use of public resource more efficient.
36.       To alleviate long-term human resources constraints, IDA' emphasis will be on: (a) the
promotion of primary education and more efficiency in techbical, secondary, and highet education
through the ongoing Education Sector Project and a future Education/Training Project; and (b) better
provision of basic health care and implementation of a population policy through the ongoing Health,
Popula:on and Rural Water Supply Project.
37.       With the aim of helping Mali cope better with its environmental problems, its most important
physical resource constraint, IDA staff has reviewed environmental strategies relevant for Mali and
incorporated some of its findings in the design of a multi-sectoral Natural Resource Management Project
to introduce a rational land use system which will halt, and then reverse, the process of degradation of
the natural resource tbse. The Project will do this by building up the capacity of local communities to
manage their own natural resources and the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and
Environment to advise villagers on these maters. It will also establish an environmental information
system for coordinating and guiding the diverse initiatives underway throughout the country, and
incorporate the lessons of those field experiences into a national resource management strategy. A
household energy stae    was also recently prepared and could be implemented in the context of an
ongoing Power Project. IDA would also be ready to help Mali, together with other donors, prepare a
full NEAP once Government requests the assistance. Other physical constraints to growth are the
botdenecks in Mall's infrastructure. IDA's assistance in this area will concentrate on: (a) improving long-
term planning in the transport sector through an ongoing sector study and a planned operation; and (b)



- 11 -
increasing the efficiency of urban areas through the implemeDtation of the ongoing Public Works Program
and a future Urban Project. Pinaly, to help Government address the ever-present tireat of drought, IDA
will contribute to the preparation of a drought-preparedness plan and to the monhoring of rain-fil during
the growing season.
38.       Crossutin issus in IDA's strategy. To reach the above strategic objectives, two issues
that cut across all sectors and operations, in addition to those that are already described above as focal
points of our strategy - poverty alleviadon, food security and the environment - will receive particular
attention in IDA's future lending operations and sector work: Qt) the promodon of women's activities, and
(ii) capacity building and greater focus on information, education and comnication (IEC).
39.       WDm.  Mali's future development will critically depead on better integration and promotion
of women in all economic activities. While they contribute significantly to economic growth, their
effectiveness is constrained by several factors: lower than average school enrollment, poor maten
health, limited access to contraceptives, shortage of female extension agents. litde attention to women's
needs in agricultural research, and laws restricting women's rights. A Women in Development
assessment has been prepared to help develop an IDA strategy for women and to share WID strategies
with the Malian government and other donors. Several ongoing and planned projects are designed to
target women specifically, in particular all operations in the human resources sector, the agricultura
services project and the Natural Resource Management Project.
40.       Cajnit        g building and Ej C. While Mali's overall economic performance has been good, the
effectiveness and susainbility of operations and reform measures has remained constrained by two
factors: a weak instiutional capacity and a lack of adequate information of economic actors. Govemment
staff often lacks the capacity for steady project execution, civil serans as well as new influential groups
outside Government often do not have sufficient analytical capabilities to shape the dialogue on economic
reforms, and conication between government and the civil society on econmmic issues has been poor.
TIis has contributed to slow disbursement of project funds and sometimes incomplete implemention of
formally adopted policy reforms. These weaknesses need to be taken into account both in the Bank's
institutional development strategy and in the speed at which new lending to Mali is increased.
41.       WhRe most ongoing IDA operations already contain components focusing on training and
institutional strengthening, this area will receive more emphasis in IDA's future lending and ESW
program. A  instituonal development note will be prepared, to develop a more comprehensive strategy
for institutional development. It will be followed up by a cross-sectoral Institional Capacity Building
Project. Recently prepared projects, such as the natral resource management, mining capacity building
and Public Works Projects, already focus on the setting up of a sustainable institutional framework,
emphasize the importance of direct participation of the local village-level population in project design and
execution, and include specific information dissemination componens to ensure the population's
awareness of projects' rationale and on benefits to be gained from their implementation and policy
reforms. The Nat   Resource Manageme  Project wil also help Mali build the capacity to design a
national           stregy. All other future projects wiUl pay equa attention to capacity building,
including through training and well monitored technical assistance, and to sufficient information
dissemination throu      the Project cycle. Ihe hlman resources strategy will complement these efforts.
Mali is proposed u a focal point for an ACBF sponsored action program to support the development of
policy-capaciq in non-governmentl organizations which play a key role in the policy debate. A training
program for Sahelian journaists is also under preparation in collaboration with EDI. This will be
paticularly important In the new political framework of a democratic government. Finally, a policy



- 12 -
agenda has been prepared for the new goverment, covering all important sectors and communicatin
concise form major issues and policy options in IDA's current dialogue with Mali.
42.      PrEd leding  rom. In addition to direct financing, IDA lending to Mali has
traditionally played an important catalytic role in mobilizing external support. IDA resources will thus
contnue to be programmed to have a maximum impact on total sector resource use, with sectoral
investment projects supporting firther policy reforms. The Mali lending program foresees a total
allocation of about US$380 million for FY93-97 (about US$76 million p.a.).
43.      The agricultural sector remains a priority. Ihe operations under preparation include: an
Agricultural lmuke   Project which would aim at increasing environmenally sustainable agricultural
production by improving the responsiveness of research to farmers' and pastoralist' needs and establishing
a more effective linhkge to extension services. Given Mali's large irrigaticn potential, a second operation
in this area (after the FY88 Office du Niger Consolidation Project) would aim at exploiting this potential
more fully by promotng the development of small-scale private irrigation schemes. The strateg to give
priority to rehabilitation and to limit new construction to viable schemes would remain unchanged. An
iigatin  gtio go    would further strengthen Mali's planning and managerial capacity for
irigationdevelopment; improve extension and training to increase the productivity of existing irrigation
perimeters and thus agricutural production and farmers' incomes; encourage double cropping and crop
diversification raise the return on irrigation investment; and promote domestic and foreign private
investment An          ing operation would encourage private investment in this most important part
of Mali's small industial sector and at the same time increase the value of agricultural production.
Finally, a second               Project would extend the program started under the first project
which became effective last year and has already demonstrated its positive effect on agricutural yields.
44.      In infucture, two operations are planned over the next five years. A  ort set
operation, and te future Urb; P  will aim at alleviating long-term constraints to economic growth
by improving transport plaming and management and the efficiency of urban areas. The future transport
sector opeation would aim at reducig the cost of providing and maintining transport infrastucture,
ensuring a regulatory environment that encourages transport service provision at reduced cost, improving
the quality of sectoral investment planning, and loweing the cost of infrastructure constuction through
greater competion. The future Urban Project could focus on municipal finance, looking at tax collection
and cost recovery, more efficieat municipal service provision, and the development of financial
instruments for medium and long-term housing finance.
45.      Given that two large operations are currently ongoing in the human resources sector (one
became effective only earlier this year), and that they will require intensive supervision over the next five
years, only one additional operation is currendy planned in this sector. The goal of the future Eion
and Irainig Project is to extent the ongoing program in the educational sector in order to further expand
and improve primary educatio  It would also focus on raising the quality, relevance and efficiency of
technical and vocational education and training and on the cost-effectiveness of overall sectoral resource
use.
46.      Two projects are designed to promote the development of Mali's private sector directly. This
Pate Sedor AssistancProject will continue regulatory reforms, provide insional support directy
tc private eterpris, banks and agencies that support privaization and the private sector and disnat
information to key economic agents. This project is descibed in the latter part of this report. The
second, a Sector operation will bufld on the results of variou8 sector studies which would explore



- 13 -
ways to deepen Mali's financial system and the institutional support to Mai's banking system.
47.       To improve project implementation and the effectiveness of economic management across
sectors, IDA wil prepare an Insttutional Development Project that wfll focus on key areas where the
potendal impact of capacity strengtening appears high, based on the findings of the upcoming
institutional development note. Ihese areas will most likely include: (1) public investment budgeting,
which remains exuamely weak in terms of institutional setup and staff training; (lH) civil service reform,
for which the ongoing SAL is laying the foundation through retrenchment and beginning management
improvement; (i) procurement reform, which has started with the enactment of a new procurement law;
(iv) further strengthening of the legal and judicial framework; and (v) building the capacity for policy
analysis.
48.   Furhermore, a Regional Energy Project involving the OMVS (Organisation de Mise en Valeur
du Fleuve Senegal) is now under active preparation.
49.       The lending strategy balances the needs for investment and is predicated upon the continuation
of the current performance on the macro-economic front. Current projections indicate that, baring
unforeseen developments, Mali wil not require new commitments for adjustment lending. In the context
of the Special Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA), the Bank witl continue to monitor developments
closely and will adjust its strateg accordingly. In the unlikely event of a policy reversal (i.e. PFP
process off-track), IDA would revert to a program of scaled-back investmens focussing on essential needs
for the next generation.
50.       Economic and     r       he planned economic and sector work wil support is lending
strate. Several sector studies, on the transport sector, Mali's agro-procesing potential, urban mutual
credit, housing finance, and youth employment, and the  sittional development study will be carried
out before the start-up of preparation of respective projects. Studies on poverty, and the private sector
are aimed at developing well-fcused IDA strategies including specific action programs for each of those
areas, to complement a country strategy paper to be prepared in FY93. A public expenditure review
(PER) will take stock of the current problems regarding inter-and intra sectoral resource allocation and
public expenditure management, with particular attention to investment programming, social sector
spending and the instiuional dimension of resource management issues which cut across sectors. Studies
are also underway at the regional level to promote greater economic integration.
51.       IFC and  GA. IFC is actively supporting IDA's strategy to promote the development of
Mali's private sector. But Mali, as a land-ocked country, offers comparatvely few opportunities for
projects beyond the small-scale size, except in the mining sector, which has a significant potentia. IFC's
Board recently approved a US$23.2 million investment (JS$1.5 million in equity and US$21.7 million
in shareholders' advances) to help BHP Mineras of Australia ecpand a gold mme, which started
production in 1990. Gold production, currendy at about 100,(00 oz p.a. is epected to increase by 1994
to an average of 190,000 oz. p.a. Other gold projects are being considered and IFC participation will
likely be sought once the concessions have been granted.
52.       IFC's strategy in Mali will focus on the development of small and medium-scale enterpises
through the African Project Development Facility (APDF) and the Afica Enteprse Fund (AEF). Two
AEF Projects (Labo-Mali and Bank of Africa-Mali (BOAM)) were approved in 1991. IFC's investment
in Labo-Mali consists of a loan to help a Malian pharmacist/biologist set up the first privately-owned
medical laboratory in Bamalo. IFC's investment in BOAM consists of an equity participation of



- 14-
US$250,000 to help BOAM strengthen its financial structure and improve management and control
mechanisms. IFC could also provide assistance in the privatization of remaining state-owned companies.
53.       Mali's membership in MIGA was ratified in 1990. However, Mali has not yet completed
paymt of its capital subscription. MIGA's Board has so far approved the issuance of one guaranee
(to a Canadian gold mining company), subject to Mali fulfilling its membership requiremens.
Discussions with govment officials regarding these requirements are ongoing. Once all membership
requirements are met, M1GA could begin to play a more active role in facilitating foreign investment in
Mali. MIGA has received one other Preliminary Application for a Mining Project. Advisory services
have already been provided to Mali by FIAS, the joint IFC/MGA Foreig Investment Advisory Services
group, which undertook a diagnostic study on Mali's investment legislation and contributed to the design
of regulatory reforms implemented under the structural adjustment program.
54.       CoQodinat  with the BE and Donors. The ongoing IDA structural and sector adjustment
operations are part of Mali's overall adjustment program that i also supported by the IM  and
multilateral and bilateral donors. Iheir support has been coordinated through the SPA process. All IDA
adjustment oations have been co-financed by several donors, including the African Development Bank,
the European Community, France, the Saudi Fund, the OPEC Fund, Japan, the Netherlands, Germany,
Belgium Switzerland, Canada and Norway. Mali has benefiKed fom several standby, two annual SAP
arrangements, and recently from a first drawing under an ESAF arrangement. Most recendy, a new PFP
was agreed between the Govermnent, the Bank and the IMF establishing the basic macroeconomic
framework for fiture donor assistance. The Bank wil contnue to work closely with the IM  in
providing policy recom  ons to maintain macroeconomic stability and ensure consistency in policy
reforms.
55.       Given the importance of foreign assisnce to finance the majority of Mali's public
investments, aid coordination efforts regarding non-adjustment lendig wfll contnue to receive high
priority. Aid coordinaon will focus on reaching agreement with the donors on priorities for public
instment programs ad on building consensus for addressing long-term issues. In addition to informal
donor meetings orgized around specific sector operations, and continued close contact by the resident
mission and visiting Bank missions with local donor representatives, public expenditure reviews wil in
&ture be used to assure close coordination among donors. (Mali is one of the pilot SPA countries for
joint PER work).
Criteia for MoQitoft 
56.       Ihe coming year will be critical to lay the foundation for long-term economic growth and the
alleviation of poverty in Mali. The political context, with a new democratically elected government in
office, also provides a unique oppormnity. Ihe Bank group strategy has been designed to respond to the
political openness and the mobilization of the civil society to support fimdamental changes that could
significanldy improve Mali's prospects for future development.
57.       The objectives of the IDA strategy, as descibed in paragraph 28, are central to Govanment's
reety negoted PFP for 1992-95. Satisfactory progress in meetng these objectives would be reflected
in periodic reviews of this policy framework (including fiscal, balance of payments and monetary
performance), as well as in successful reviews for 'upcoming tranche releases for the ongoing SAL,
agriculur  sector adjustment/investment operation (AGSECAL) and Education Sector Consolidation
Project. More specificaly, to measure progress with regard to the objective of fostering private sector



- 15 -
growth, review missions would consider: whether the financial sector is operating satisforly, business
women have equal rights and practice, the economic chambers are playing their rightfid roles, and the
commercial courts have become operational.
58.       With regard to the goal of improving public resources management, sufficient progress would
require, in particular, agreement on the annual government budgets (including both recurrent and
investment expenditue), which would respect targets established under ongoing sector operations for
provisions to the halh and primary education sectors. It would also require that the Government
maintain the wage bill at the level agreed in the PFP, continue implementation of the voluntary departure
program from the civil service to meet the respective condition for release of the SAL second and third
tanches, and divest from additional public entetprises. In the agricutural sector, we expect that a
performance conttract will be concluded with the main rice producing agency, and that the specific
conditions for release of the last tranche of the AGSECAL be fidfilled before end-1992, which will irmply,
in particular, the representation of farmers in decision making regarding the cotton sector.
59.       To start effectively alleviatg long-term human resources constaints, it will be crucial that
implementation of the agreed emergency plan for primary education begin in the 1992193 school year,
that redeployment of teachers, limitation of class repetition, extension of double-hif teacihing and multi-
grade classes, and the planned reduction of scholarship spending be effectively carried out, and that
mplementation of the multi-donor health, population, and Rural Water Supply Project effectively start.
To reduce long-term physical resource constraints, the first steps will be to start the implementation of
the Naturl Resource Management Project and to strengten the institutonal framework for
implementation of a national evironm    strategy.
1L h.e Ed=  $t Assis Proect
60.       Rationale f  JJDA            The proposed Project supports both the strategies of the
(3overnment and IIDA in terms of encouraging the establishment of mechanisms to support the private
sector's prospects for leading the growth of Mali's economy. It would support completion of the
implementaton of recent policy and regulatory reforms essent  to private sector performance; provide
techical assistace directly to private enterprises and to exisng agencies that support the private sector
(such as the chamber of commerce and industry); improve the public enteaprise privafzation process;
undertce audits and dignostic studies of Mali's banks as a basis for introducing institutional
development programs and provide training to banks' staff for project evaluation, ; finance studies to
explore the potenti of mutual savings and credit schemes, to examine the appropriate modalities for
housing finance in Mali, and to prepare an overall fincial sector strae; and dieminate informaion
on business services to frequently disadvantaged groups (women, nru businesses). IDA's financing of
technical support to private enterprises and institutions would be a logical follow-up and complement to
its policy-based lendg (e.g. SAL, AGSECAL, PESAP) for reform of the private sector business
environment. In addiion, lIA's intervenion would complement IFC's recent and proposed investments
in private banking, gold mining and leasing by imprving the institutional and technical support structures
for the private sector.
61.       'Weet OWgW=. Ihe principal objective of the Project is to help foster the development
of private sector enteprises, so that tey can lead the growth of Mali's economy. It aims at putfing into
place the mehanisms and measmes to back up the Government's staegy of breaking fiom past reliance
on the public sector. The Project proposes to achieve this by:



- 16-
(a) completing Implementation of recent improvements to the regulatory emvironment;
(b) assstg a private business support strucure to coordinate a program of Insdtional support to
non-fincial enterprises;
(c) improving the functloning of the chamber of commerce and industry, the public enterprise bureau
and departments of the Government responsible for administering regulatons affecting privat
enterprises; and
(d) inducing instttional and financial strengtheniag of the banking sector.
62.         ject. The Project has four components: (i) a regulatory component (JS$1.4
million) to complete implementaion of recent policy and regulatory reforms essential to private sector
performance (enlargement of the role of the gukhet wdqe, upgrading of the national accounting plan
for enterprises; modenization of legal texts on corporate rights and bankruptcy); (ii) an  situdonal
support component (US$8.9 million) targeted to: (1) non-financial private enterprises (technical and
management assistance); (2) financial intermediaries (extern  independent audits and financial and
instimional development programs); (3) professional associations (assistance in revision of statutes, office
t nology, management information systems, training); (4) govement agencies CincludingB1EP, DNAE,
and DNI) (revamped informaton systems, legal and regulatory famework for privatization, training);
(fii) a studies component (US$0.6 million) to explore options to deepen the Malian financial system in
the areas of: urban mutual savi   and credit schemes and housing finance, and to prepare an overall
financial sector strategy; and (iv) a com cton component (US$0.2 million) to disseminate
information on businss serices to frequenty disadvantaged groups (women, rural businesses) and elicit
participaton by rural service suppliers. The sub-component to provide technical and management
assistance to non-financial private enterprises wfll be of a pilot nature and administed by a private
agency (Assocation de Promodon deI 'EntprIse Prle - APEP) under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA.
63.      Pfjt   bnlet= and                     Overall project management would be vested in
a supevseur du Projet in the Mldstre Delegud a la Promoton de 1'nlave Prhe in the Prime
Minists Office. In order to insti ize implementation of such operations, the Government has
designated a Project Management Unit (PMU) in this ministry to coordinate project activities and to
oversee implemenaion of the parts of the Project dealing with policy, regulation, other government
agencies and the financial system. Ihe PMU would also be responsible for (a) administradve/finandal
matters, (b) monioring/evaluation and (c) day-to-day coordination of project acies, including
satisfactory procurement, recruitment, disbursemens, management of the Special Accounts, project
accuntig and auditng, reportng requiment, and liaison with IDA and other donors. Ihe Prime
Minister's Office has ample experience with IDA Projects, and should be able to abide by IMA
procurement and repo      req    .
64.      Implementation of the program of instional support targeted to non-financial private
enteprises and the communication component would be enusted to APEP under a convention signed
with the Govnment satftory to IDA. The Stautes, Bye-laws, and Procedure Mamnu of APEP, have
been reviewed and found stsfactory to IIDA. Ite Prcedures Manua, which must at all times be
acceptable to the Bank1, establishes: (i) the types of enterprises that can benefit from APEP's
interventions (private enterprises including service firms); (ai) the method to be used by APEP to inform
poteial beneficiaries of the range of service suppliers available to them (including the maitenance and



- 17 -
updating of data banis and the procedures for classifying suppliers of technical assistance services); (iii)
procedures for receiving and processing tcnical assistance and training requests from beneficiary
enterprises; (iv) the limits of APEP-financed assistance to any one beneficiary enterprise (at most two
iterventions, with a cumulative advance of CFAF 15 million); (v) the percentage of costs to be advanced
(75% for all beneficiary enterprises); (vi) the procurement procedures that APEP must follow, including
the choice of service suppliers by beneficiary entrises; (vii) standard bidding documes and model
contracts; (viii) procedures for supervising performance by contracted firms; (ix) APEP's staffing and
financial management procedures including its accountng, inter  controls and semi-annual accouning
of Its use of donor funds; (x) the nature and periodicity of reporting by APEP; and (xi) the process for
semi-anmnal review of its operations by the Government and donors, including IDA. The APEP-
Govenment agreement for use of IDA funds will describe APEP's modus operand and include the
Procedures Manual as an integral part. Use of this structure would allow for operational autonomy in
day-to-day implementation of the business support sub-component, adequate interface between the private
sector and policy-making bodies, maxinum participation by the private sector, and proper coordination
of project activites.
65.       Poect &v l&WM      The Project is likely to have a sustainable effect because it will (i) help
the recent regulatory reforms to take root; (i) promote and strengtien suppliers of business services and
help to develop a self-sufficient consulting and training market locally; Ciii) enable Mali's economic
chambers to fimction more effectively and to gradually stand on their own outside the administration's
shadow; and (iv) set the stage for deepening Mali's financial system by inducing institutional
improvements in commercial banks and by linking them to local communities through mutualist
savings/credit ins"tions.
66.       LessM fiom Pevious              From 1983 to 1989, the Government implemented an
IDA-fintced Industrial Development Project (Cr. 986 of FY83) in an atmosphere of distorted policies.
ohe Project provided US$8 million to finance investents, technical assistance and training for small and
micro-enterpris. It financed 27 small and medium scale private enterprises with moderate success. The
Project suffered from poor sub-project screening by the national development bank which has since beerl
restructured, ineffective technical asistance provided by a public agency which has since been liquidated,
and iadequate monitoring. FurFter, it was implemented without regard to the fac t thatenses should
be in business primarily for the pupose of making profits (i.e. their commercial orientation), and that
such developmental objectives &s empleyment creation or even the creation of value added, while
worthwhile objectives, should at best be considered as supplementary criteria or side benefits to
commercial viability. The lessons from this Project were tht the prerequisites for effective private sector
promotion were: (1) the existence of an appropriate policy environment including an adequate interest
rate structure), (i) well-focused project screening (credit-worthiness) by bans, (iii) close
supervisionk/moitoring, and iv) technical sWort prvided by efficient and business oriented private
instiut . These lessons were incorporated in the design of Mali's structura and sectoral adjustment
programs (SAL, PESAP, etc.) and have been taken ito account in designig the proposed operaton.
67.       Experience with Imple nI  of the divestiture program under the IDA-supported PESAP
also revealed that the executin  agency had neither the experience nor the tecnical resources to
efficiently manage PE divestifures.  Intances of privatzation under the PESAP were therefore
charaterized by hasy dissolution of the PE concerned, arbitrary valuation, little prospection for buyers,
and little competition among buyers, so ta the partners selected were often incapable of improving the
pefoman  of the enterprise. Ihe isutional support component of the propose Project wil, inter
alia, finance restuctrng of private enteris, and the technical assistace proposed for BEP will serve



- 18 -
to strengthen the two remaining areas of weakness identified: (a) valuation of the enterprise's assets in
order to estimate a fair floor price as well as the extent of the liabilities to be cleared, and (b) active
prospection for, and creation of competition among, partners capable of contrbuting to the enterprise's
recovery or development.
68.       kAian=      d.  Agreement was reached with Government at nM iations on: (a)
establishment of the Special Accounts; (b) the text of the covention to be signed between Government
and APEP as well as the procurement and other procedures governing APEP's use of project funds; (c)
semi-annual review of the performance and effectiveness of APEP as a basis for revising the business
support sub-component; (d) the Letter of Private Sector Development Strategy; (e) reporting and auditing
requirements including semi-annual audits of statement of expenditures (SOEs) and of APEP's operations
and accounts; (f) recruitment of a firm to establish a sasctory accounting system for APEP and the
Project, and a firm to audit the accounts; and (g) signature of the agreement with APEP to implement
the institutional support program to private enterprises. Prior to credit effectiveness, Government would
be expected to: (i) establish the Special Accounts; (ii) set-up the Project's accounting system and sign a
contract with auditors, satisfactory to IDA for auditing the accounts of APEP and the Project, including
the Special Accounts and SOEs; and (iii) prepare and agree with IDA on a training program for the first
year of the Project.
69.       Environmental MonitoringIProions. Ihe Project's components have no environmental
impact. However, Mali's banks are currendy not equipped to undertake full environmental assessments
of investment proposals. Therefore, in line with the recently prepared Environmental Strategy for Mali,
the training to be provided to staff of the banks will include methods for idfying and flagging the
potential for adverse envionmena effects in investment proposals.
70.       Mnfit ad Risks. This Project specifically aims at improving the private sector's ability
to respond to the policy reforms underway and enhancing its prospects for leading the growth of Mali's
economy. It will improve the regulatory infrastructure for private sector operations as well as the
functioning of key private sector support institutions (including both professional associations and relevant
government agencies). The use by private enterprises of the business services administered by APEP
should enhance teir operational capabilities. It is also expected that the Project would have a
demonstration effect dth will foster the development of a dynamic and self-sufficient local consulting and
training market. Ihe Project will also support the on-going PE privatizaon process by up-grading the
relevant regulatory framework and providing technical assistance to BEP. Additionally, the support to
the banks and the studies component have been specifically designed to achieve a double objective,
namely, inducing institutional and financia strengthening of the banking sector and setting the stage for
future deepening of Mali's financial system.
71.       ITe principal risk relates to the sustainability of the recent political dem tion and the
maitnan  of a policy framework supportive of private sector development. This risk is lessened by
the new Government's commitment to continued policy reform and to private sector promotion, as
demonstrted by its recent signature of a Policy Framework Paper and appointment of a MlniareDftgue
pour la Promoion de l'Inieow Privd in the Prime Minister's Office. To further minimize this risk,
the Project team has put particular emphasis on obtaining close cooperation and intensive participation
of a wide range of economic agents in Mali. The focus on capacity building and institutional
development activities furter isolates the success of the Project from short-term policy uncertainties.



- 19 -
72.       Another risk exists that APEP would misuse its considerable independence in administering
the sub-component to provide technical and management assistance to non-financial private enterprises.
This risk i reduced by: (i) prior review and approval by IDA of APEP's Prcedures Manual, which will
be part of the Agreement under which APEP wil administer the sub-component; (U) agreement obtained
at negotiations that the Director General's appointment and performance must be acceptable to IDA; and
(Mii) the proposed supervision schedule, in particular sem-annual reviews and audits, which wlul provide
for frequwent opportuities to Intervene In case of observed deficiencies In the admiistation of the sub-
component.
73.                     . I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve It.
Lewis Preston
President
Atuachments
Washington D.C.
October 16, 1992



-20 -
Scheduile A
MAUI: PRIVATE SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROIECT
Etmated Proect Cost and Financg Plan
(a) Not of Meidnfiable taxles and dutdes
|~~~~~~~~~(SmI~
.. . . - .
[~~~~~~4 i0~  4



X a zitlA
Mg fllthlMSitt
" Wfl F aS15
fl 0 !Ef1J!



-22 -
Schedule B
(Contd)
MAl:  PIATE S         TO  ASSISTANE PROJECT
Allocation and DisbMrn  of the IDA Credi
Qu   fEeWdMAacin                                                            fE
(US$million)
- Civil Works                             0.39                               100%
- Vehicles, equipment and   dfit          0.36                               100%
- APEP supported Tecnical Assistance      3.25                                75%
- Other consuttan ies and Trainin         4.23                               100%
- Incremental Operating Expenses
PMU                                 1.13                     100%  upto 12-31-95
and 80%
thereafter.
APEP                                0.74                               100%
-PPF                                      0.75
- Unallocated                             1.15
Total                                    1Lg0
Disbrsmen Schedule (JS$m1ig
IDA Fiscal Yer      22    24    21    26    29    21    22
Anmu                1.1   1.0   1.3   1.9   2.5    2.5   1.7
Cumlative           1.1   2.1   3.4   5.3   7.8   10.3  12.0



-23 -
SCEHEDIULE! C
MAI: PRIVATIR SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of KUi Proect Prcssing DMs
(a) Time taken to prepare Project:  IEPS: 09120/89: 36 months
(b) Project prepared by:         Govenment with IDA assistance
(c) First IDA mision:            November 1989
(d) PPF:                         Sepember 20, 1990
(e) Appraisal mission:           Februay/March 1992
(f) Negotiaons:                  Setember/October 1992
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness:   January 1993
(h) Relevant PCRs and PPARs:     Report No. 8401 dated Februy 23, 1990
Idustril Development Project Cr. 986-MU)



-24-
Schedule-D
Page 1 of 2
PAGE   52
WI Tfm: 10/09/92 at 12.10.07
MALI
Statau Of Gh* amp C    6rations In mIAL
PFOSR2S -ADui  Statett 0f Lon wd IOA Crteit
(LOA date   of &/3092 * mIS data as of 10C/09)
.............................................................................................. 
By Ctatry
CoLnty:    MLt
MM fr USs of t t tam
(tls O ettatilers)
Low  or      Fiscat                                                             ......U..is   CtosIr.
Credit No.     Year  Bo ero                           Ppau   s I                                     O br      Osto
......   ........                      .......                     ....         ...     ......  .........
Credi ts
35 Credits(s) csed                                                                             .29
CF0070*gI    1098    PALI                             %ATI  9UPML  1                         6.30       1.15 06/30/93(R)
C15970-M.L    1985   ML!                etY AREA OM.                                        19.50      10.25  12/31/92(R)
C16290-ILI     1986   mALI                            NitMYS v                              48.60      27.31  12/31/93(R)
C16540-mLt    1986   MLt                              FORSTY tt'                             6.30        .18  12/3l/92(R)
C16M-NLI    1986   PALI                               U8A1m It                              28.00       8.07 03/31/93
C1960-LI(S)  1988   MALI                             OFtP     l Du 5t16t3                  39.80      35.46 06/30/97
C19380*-LI    1988   PALI                             P.1. INST ON                           9.50       2.71 12/31/94
C19980-NLI    1989   MLI                              PR   It                               33.00      30.19  12/31/95
CZ0540-LtS) 1989   PALt                               NUI4AM UIEUS   WWL                    26.00      18.16  12/31/94
C21630-NLuS) 1990   MALt                              AG SEUL                               53.00      28.02  12/31/%
CR 8o-NL!(S)  1991   PALI                             SAL I                                 70.00      50.t2 06/30/9
C22170M.!t   1991   liLt                              NHM     tN/PMUT                       26.60      26.15  12/31/9?
C22350*MLt    1991    ALt                             AG SRviw  S                           24.40      a.97  09/30/95
C2370O-mLt    1992   MALI                              lAiUWAL lS. 11                       20.40      22.09  06/30/98
*  CZ3710-NJ       1992   MALI                            PUBLIC WiC  & CWM                     20.00      21.65  03/31/97
C23900*MLt    1992   IoAL                             RMINING CAPACITy                       6.00       6.48 06/0/97
TotAL nurer Credit. *  16                                                                    437.40     311.95
TOTAL*                                                                        00.69
of Aich repad                                                               1S...
T TAL ed by  wk & IA                                          .........      ..
Ar.at sold
of which r"id
TOTAL risibrsed                                                                        312.16
Notes:
.....................
Not yet effectiw
Not yet sigred
Total Aproved, Retwunts, ad tltstardirg btls'e  rerst both ctive td Iructiw Los  wd Credits.
(R) irdicates fountly rcvised Closin  oate.
(S) irdicates SAL/SECAL Los aid Credits.
The Net ApRoved and Sar'k Reperuts are historica  vatl. alt others We _olut bUea.
The Signifr. Effective, id Ctosuir  dat$ are based W    the Low DeOe      t offial ta   d are not taken
from the Task 8bget file.



-25-
Scbedule ID
W 2o.
MALI: PRIVATE SECTOR ASISTANCE PROJECT
Of the 16 IDA Projects currently under implementation In Mali, five (Office du Niger II - Cr.
1906-MLI; Power n - Cr. 1998-MUI; Hun= Resources SECAL - Cr. 2054-MLI; SAL I - Cr. 2188-
MLI; and AGSECAL - Cr. 2163-ML) have recendy experienced slow disbursement for vaious reasons:
political siaion, conditions not met for tranche release and inefficient and cumbersome executive agency
procedures. Ihe following actions are foreseen:
(a)    A disbursement mission will visit Bamako in October to hold a four-day
disbursement seminar on aU Bank operations with the concerned chief
accounts, project directors and financial managers; this would be
followed up by workshops with each project team focussing particularly
on SOEs and special account reconciliation; a meedng of aU project
direcors on generic disbursement issues would also be encouraged.
(b)    With regard to Power I, high supervision effort over the past year has
not yet led to noticeable improvements in disbursement; after the
preparation of an action plan for the sector, discussions wit Government
and all concned donors on a substantil  set of reforms concerning the
power sector are now planned in the context of a donors'meeting, which
is scheduled to be held before the end of 1992. If these discussions are
unsuccessful, suspension should be considered.



IBRD 23669
M A L I
PRIVATE SECTOR
ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                                             A L G E R I A
o    CER=E CAPILS
REGION CAPIAS
*    NATIONAL CATAL
CEICLE BOUNDARES|
REGION 8OUNDARIES
INTERNAIONAL BOUNDARIES
o  5o lo 15000 20  2
I  | tII                                                  TIl0MBoUCa      '1
KIWMETUfl ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ou   MW
MAURITANIA  /                                                                         0 
V~~~~CW                N     U     A         "        - , 0-
0      DOUE
U~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~                         MMJM4       MALI^it-
3awm'Er    b- f.                                                                                          N  I G  E R
0   18-r"o                                                                           P
G IQU  I       E   oo  
Vadeba)           OAA        F     dM  A   
Odober 1992



I



