                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                     CREDIT NUMBER 886 NIR




Development Credit Agreement
            (Feeder Roads Project)




                    between



               REPUBLIC OF NIGER


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            Dated April 27, 1979
                                                        CREDIT NUMBER 886 NIR



                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

    AGREEMENT,   dated April 27,        1979,     between     REPUBLIC OF NIGER
(hereinafter called the Borrower)   and INTERNATIONAL                 DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

     WHEREAS (A)   the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;

     (B)  by letter addressed by the Association to the Minister
of Planning of the Borrower on December 28,    1976, the Associ-
ation granted an advance to the Borrower totalling $200,000 for
the preparation of the Project;

     (C)  pursuant to the terms of said advance the aggregate
amount thereof is  to be refunded to the Association out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

    NOW   THEREFORE    the   parties   hereto     hereby      agree   as   follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                      General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all   the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association,     dated March 15,   1974,
with the same force and effect as if   they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).

     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

     (a)  "Ministry" means      the    Ministry    of   the    Borrower     respon-
sible for Public Works;
                              - 2 -


       (b) "Directorate" means the Directorate of Public Works
 within the Ministry;

      (c) "Committee" means le comite inter-minist-riel     des
 pistes rurales to be established pursuant to the provisions of
 Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and

      (d) "Technical Section" means the Feeder Road Technical
Section to be established within the Directorate pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE II

                           The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).

      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associ-
ation shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.

      (b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the advance referred to in paragraph (B) of
the Preamble to this Agreement withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay any unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of such advance shall automat-
ically be cancelled on the same date.

      Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

     Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
                              -3-


     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall   be payable   semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1989, and ending
January 1, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 1, .999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,     facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.

      (b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and of Section 4.02 of this Agreement,    the
Borrower specifically undertakes to make arrangements, satis-
factory to the Association, to provide such funds as are needed
to meet recurrent expenditures required for carrying out the
routine and the periodic maintenance operations on the Borrower's
feeder road network constructed or improved under the Project.
For this purpose, the Borrower shall, inter alia, review, in
consultation with the Association, not later than May 31 of each
year or such later     date as the Association may agree,     the
budgetary proposals for such maintenance operations in the fiscal
year starting on October 1 thereafter.

      Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
 who shall have qualifications and experience     and be employed on
 terms and conditions and in accordance with      terms of reference
 which shall be satisfactory to the Association    and which shall be
 selected by April 30, 1979 or such later date    as shall be agreed
 between the Borrower and the Association.

      (b) The Borrower shall, upon the arrival of each consultant
 at his post, recruit and assign local personnel to work with such
 consultants, in such numbers and with such qualifications as
 shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.

     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable i.i a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.

      (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section or
as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclu-
sively for the Project until its completion.

     (c)  Equipment purchased under the Project may be used       in
the maintenance of about 500 km of existing feeder roads.

     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.

      (b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its  cost and the benefits to be derived from it),   to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
                             - 5 -


cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.

     (c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it,      the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.

     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.

     Section 3.06. For the purposes of general administrative
supervision of the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish a Comite inter-ministeriel des pistes rurales (the
Committee) chaired by a representative of the Borrower's Ministry
of Planning and including a representative from the Ministry and
the Borrower's ministries responsible for Rural Development,
Interior and Finance, respectively.

     Section 3.07. (a) For the purposes of carrying out the
Project and coordinating and administering the planning, carrying
out and monitoring of the Borrower's feeder roads improvement and
maintenance programs, the Borrower shall establish within the
Directorate a Technical Section for feeder roads.

     (b) The Borrower shall, promptly as needed, provide the
Technical Section with such qualified and experienced staff and
other resources as shall be required for the efficient operation
thereof.

     Section 3.08. (a) The feeder roads included in the Project
shall be selected pursuant to criteria agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association and, except as the parties hereto
shall otherwise agree, shall be constructed, improved, rehabili-
tated or maintained in accordance with the design standards set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                              -6-


     (b)   For the purpose of carrying out the Project,        the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its comments,
for each fiscal year until completion of the Project, the proposed
annual work programs for feeder road construction, improvement,
rehabilitation or maintenance to be carried out under the Project
during such year, not later than two months before the scheduled
start of the works to be undertaken pursuant to such proposed
programs.

      Section 3.09. (a) In order to carry out the program of
training included in the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association for its review, by December 31, 1979 or
by such later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, and shall thereafter promptly implement such program.

     (b) The Borrower shall ensure that such training program
be coordinated with the training program being carried out
pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement (Third Highway
Project) between the Borrower and the Association dated March 5,
1976 (Credit Number 612 NIR).

                            ARTICLE IV

                          Other Covenants

     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resourcE, and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the Ministry and of any other department or agency of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.

      (b) The Borrower shall, through the Ministry, ensure that:
(i)  all operations and accounts with respect to the feeder road
improvement brigades and feeder road maintenance units of the
Technical Section be kept separate from the other operations and
accounts of the Directorate; and (ii) that the Directorate retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents' evidencing the
expenditures for the Project on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditures, and to enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine such records.
                              - 7 -


     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall       cause the feeder road
network included in the Project and the     feeder road maintenance
equipment to be promptly and adequately     maintained and repaired,
all in accordance with sound engineering     and economic standards,
and shall provide, promptly as needed,       the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for   the foregoing.

     Section 4.03. Tbe Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the sections of its Transport Plan dealing with roads as soon as
they are completed.

                             ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination

     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:

     (a) the Committee has been duly established pursuant to
Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and

     (b) the Technical Section has been duly established pursuant
to Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement.

       Section 5.02. The date July 27, 1979, is hereby specified
for   the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


                            ARTICLE VI

             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
                                -8-


     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified        for   the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:

          Ministere du Plan
          Niamey
          Republic of Niger

          Cable address:                       Telex:

               MINISTERE PLAN                          5230
               Niamey                                  Niamey

     For the Association:

          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America

         Cable address:                       Telex:

               INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
                                                        64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.


                    REPUBLIC OF NIGER


                    By /s/   Andre Joseph Wright
                                           Authorized Representative


                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                   By /s/    Roger Chaufournier
                                             Regional Vice President
                                                      Western Africa
                                 -9-


                               SCHEDULE 1

                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

 1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
 financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
 amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
 expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:



                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated         % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1)   Equipment, vehicle,              5,830,000    100% of foreign
      spare parts material,                         expenditures or
      fuel and lubricants                           80% of local ex-
                                                    penditures

(2)   Construction of                    140,000    70%
      offices for the
      Technical Section

(3)   Local labor                        400,000    25%

(4)   Contracts for road                 220,000    58%
      works

(5)   Consultants' services            1,290,000    85%

(6)   Refunding of Project               200,000    100% of amount
      Preparation Advance                           outstanding at
                                                    Effective Date

(7)   Equipment and supplies              10,000    100%
      for training

(8)   Unallocated                      1,910,000


                      TOTAL       10,000,000
                               -   10 -



2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
                                                                 other
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
than the Borrower;   provided,  however,  that  if  the   currency  of
the Borrower is also   that of another  country  from   the  territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
                                                             in
     (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
                                                                of the
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
Credit shall be disbursed on account of  payments  for  taxes   levied
                                                                    or
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or  supply   thereof;   to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied   on  or  in  respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
                                                             with the
applicable to such item as required to be consistent
aforementioned policy of the Association.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.

5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
                                                                   that
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
                                           to  any   Category  will   be
the amount of the Credit then allocated
insufficient to finance the agreed  percentage   of  all  expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
                                                               to meet
(i)  reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
                                        the  Credit   which   are  then
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of
                                                 the  opinion   of   the
allocated to another Category and which in
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and      (ii)  if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
                                                            been made.
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
                              -   11 -



6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
                                  - 12 -


                                SCHEDULE 2

                         Description of the Project

     The Project comprises a four-year program for the improvement
and subsequent maintenance of about 1,000 km of feeder roads in
rural areas and the creation of the institutions necessary for the
purpose and for the subsequent operation of such roads. The
Project includes: (1) purchase and repair of equipment, purchase
of spare parts and workshop tools; (2) purchase of    construction
materials, fuel and lubricants; (3) construction and repair of
small drainage structures; (4)   transportation of materials; (5)
construction of offices for the Technical Se-tion; (6)      estab-
lishment of the Technical Section in order to program, implement
and monitor the feeder road program; (7) purchase of training
equipment and supplies; (8) training of specialists in the opera-
tion of civil and mechanical works; (9) analyzing construc-
tion and maintenance costs and methods for feeder roads and
establishing a cost-accounting system; and (10) preparing a
future feeder roads project.




        The Project is    expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.
                               - 13 -


                             SCHEDULE 3

                            Procurement

A.   International Competitive Bidding


1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D of this Schedule, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.


2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines,  the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible,   and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability     to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request;      the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification  to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.


3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f.  (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii)  customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation  shall be included.


4.    To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
                              - 14 -


B.   Other Procurement Procedures

1.   Subject to Part C.1 of this Schedule, contracts for the
purchase of equipment, materials, vehicles and supplies estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $60,000 each may be procured
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally.

2.   Contracts for the construction of offices for the Technical
Section and of minor drainage works, and contracts for the trans-
portation of materials, may be procured on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally.

C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association

1.   Review of invitations   to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:

     With respect to: (i) all contracts for equipment, materials,
vehicles and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $60,000
or more; and (ii)  all contracts of any value proposed to be pro-
cured under Part B.2 of this Schedule the estimated cost of which,
when added to all other contracts so procured, is      expected to
exceed $400,000 equivalent:

      (a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its  comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.

      (b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its  review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if   it  determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
                               - 15    -



      (c) The terms and conditions of the contract
                                                   shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.

      (d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first    application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.

2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first  application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective
                                                             bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.

3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if      it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.

D.   Procurement Without Contracting

     Road works may   be carried      out   by force   account   by the
Technical Section.
                                       - 16 -


                                  SCHEDULE 4

                        Feeder Road Design Standards

                                                        Design Standard*
Designation                                     III                            II

Vehicles per day                          more than 10                10 or less

Clearing (m)                                     12                            12

Formation width (m)                               8**                           6

Road width (m)                                    6                             5

Thickness of surface (cm)                   15 - 25                          12 - 15

Drainage                           lateral ditches, culverts and fords;
                                   bridges only where the size of river
                                   or the volume of traffic warrants it.




*    Where any existing feeder roads have standards that are
     higher than those set forth in this Schedule, such roads
     shall be improved and maintained to such higher standards.

**   This will     be   reduced   in    difficult       terrain   to limit    earth-
     works.
