Dounient of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12932
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1497-MAG)
APRIL 5, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =       FMg (Malegasy franc)
US $1.00         =       FMg 400 (June 1984)
US $1.00         =       FMg 1873 (May 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCT                Traffic Management Bureau
BFV                Bank of Commerce of Madagascar
BPU                Project Management Unit
BTM                Rural Development Bank of Madagascar
CCM                National Tender Board
CENAM              National Artisan Center
CIMATEC            Wood Production Unit
CTNDU              Technical National Committee for Urban Development
DAUH               Directorate of Architecture, Urban Planning and Housing
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
DCOU               Directorate of Coordination of Urban Projects
DCU                Directorate of Construction and Urbanization
FIHIU              Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing
FMg                Malagasy Franc
HAIVY              Metallic Tools Production Unit
IDA                International Development Agency
JARY               SEIMAD Consulting Firm
JIRAMA             National Water and Electricity Authority
MA                 Municipality of Antananarivo
MATRACEM           Bricks and Tiles Production Unit
MDUT               Ministry of Urban Development and Tourism
MT                 Municipality of Toamasina
MTP                Ministry of Public Works
PCR                Project Completion Report
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SEIMAD             Madagascar Housing Corporation
UNCHS              UN Center for Human Settlements
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operationa Evaluation
April 5, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Madagascar
Urban Development Project (Credit 1497-MAG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Madagascar - Urban Development
Project (Credit 1497-MAG) prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, South-Central and
Indian Ocean Department (Country Department 3) of the Africa Regional Office, with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. Part II highlights the positive start of the institutional improvement
process, and the importance of the technical assistance in this respect.
This project was prepared on the basis of a UNDP assisted technical assistance and
feasibility study which took several years to complete. At the end, the Bank provided PPF funding
for detailed design of components and provision of necessary equipment. At appraisal in 1983, the
project objectives were focused on two key areas: (i) improving the financial and management
capacity of the two participating municipalities, Antananarivo and Toamasina, with an emphasis on
maintenance of municipal services, and project development and implementation; and (ii) improving
living conditions and employment opportunities of poor and middle income families. The Borrower
favored direct impact construction, with the Bank putting more emphasis on capacity building. This
situation caused complications during project implementation resulting in a delay of several years in
project completion.
The project achieved a substantial part of its physical goals thus improving living
conditions of over 100,000 inhabitants in poor neighborhoods of the two cities. Permanent
employment was provided as the project helped establish three private companies producing
construction materials and tools. With regard to the institutional goals, the project increased the
awareness of the municipalities towards the urban development process and achieved at least partial
operational improvements, especially in Toamasina, including increased municipal revenues. The
direct cost recovery mechanism envisaged in the project proved to be unrealistic.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Its institutional achievements are
rated as modest, and the sustainability of the project benefits as uncertain.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality, and it discusses the sensitive nature of the project
and related implementation issues candidly and in detail. The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)
(Credit 1497-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE        ..................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
Project Identity .1
Background .1
Project Objectives and Description.                                          2
Project Design and Organization.                                             2
Project Implementation.                                                      3
Project Results.                                                             6
Project Sustainability.                                                      9
Bank Performance.                                                            9
Borrower Performance .10
Project Relationship .10
Consultant Services .10
Project Documentation and Data .10
PART TWO: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                             11
Project Background and Objectives .11
Brief Project Description .12
Results upon Project Completion .13
Special Circumstances from mid-1991 onwards .23
PART THREE: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .26
Related IDA Credits .26
Project Timetable .26
Credit Disbursements .27
Project Implementation .29
Project Costs and Financing .31
Project Results .34
Status of Covenants .40
Staff Inputs .42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



p



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1497-MAG)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Urban Development Project, for which
Credit 1497-MAG in the amount of SDR 12.1 million was approved on June 6, 1984. The Credit
was closed on December 31, 1992, after a one year extension, except for Parts F(1), F(4) and H(5)
of the Project for which the closing date was further extended to June 30, 1993. The last
disbursement was on October 6, 1993, and the outstanding balance of SDR 1,864,508.04 was
cancelled.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the South-Central
and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
HI) and the Borrower (Part II).
3.    Preparation of this PCR was started during a completion mission, carried out in June/July
1993 and the Bank's final supervision mission of the Project in July 1993. It is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit and Project Agreements; progress reports; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



*



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
(Credit 1497-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objecties
1.    The project's major objectives were to: (i) improve the financial and management capacity
of municipalities; (ii) strengthen the ability to maintain the most critical municipal services at least
at current levels; (iii) expand the income-earning opportunities of poor and middle-income families;
(iv) demonstrate neighborhoods upgrading as a technically effective means of improving living
conditions while reducing the need for new housing investment; and (v) build up capacity to design
and carry out similar projects on a sustained basis (para. 3.01).
Implementation
2.    The Project faced many difficulties during implementation because the Government and the
Antananarivo Municipality (MA) never fully agreed with Project objectives and method of
implementation. While for the Government the major objective was to improve the living conditions
of the urban poor, for the Bank reforms in the structure of municipal revenues and services came to
be the central focus (paras. 4.01 and 4.02). From this point of view, the Bank required that the scope
of the works and provision of equipment be adjusted, at every stage of the Project, to the
improvement of municipal revenues and cost recovery performance. This approach lead to years of
delay, cost increases and to the deterioration of relationships between the Bank and MA (para. 5.02).
3.     After having approved bidding documents, the Bank often refused to approve the award of
the contract, requiring to review the scope of the works, in the light of the municipal revenue, or to
cancel the bidding process. For the upgrading works in Antananarivo, the contract was awarded in
February 1988, three years after Credit effectiveness, following three bidding processes, and the cost
was twice as much as the first award proposal (para. 5.04). Another bidding process was cancelled
because the Bank did not reply on time (without any reason) to the proposal of contract award (para
5.06).
Results
4.    The physical targets of the Project were substantially achieved. In Antananarivo, the old
wards of Isotry and Anatihazo were rehabilitated, on a surface of 50 ha. Unfortunately, the sewerage
system was not constructed, and this was a technical mistake, made by the Bank, due to the fact that



-...-
no engineer was involved in the Project, on the Bank side, from 1977 to 1989 (para. 6.02). In
Toamasina, four neighborhoods were upgraded, and the impact on the population was very positive
(para. 6.04). Concerning the Employment and Income Generation component, the Proje ct helped
establish three private companies producing wood works, metallic construction materials and bricks
and tiles. These firms employ a total of 210 workers (para. 6.06).
5.    On the institutional side, the main result of the Project was that the authorities have
understood the importance of the urban sector in the development process. The Project Unit, BPU,
created for coordination and management of the Project, was efficient, even though it had no
influence on MA. In addition, the Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing (FIHU) was created and
the reimbursements of the subsidiary loans from the National Artisan Center (CENAM) and the
Municipality of Toamasina (MI) have been deposited in this Fund. An indirect consequence of the
Project was, in September 1991, the establishment of the Ministry of Urban Development and
Tourism (para. 6.07). However, the project was unable to improve the municipal services of
Antananarivo, the capital city and the central focus of the Project.
6.    Financial results were mixed. The Project helped the Municipalities reassess the property tax
base (in 1985 and 1990), and the property tax rate, in Antananarivo, was raised by 600% to 1900%,
in nominal terms, or by 100% to 500% in real terms. It is clearly the main financial impact of the
Project. Cost recovery never worked as proposed at Appraisal, because it was not realistic (para.
6.15).
Sustainability
7.    The project helped the Government establish the FIHU, which will work as a mechanism for
replicating actions undertaken and recycling the funds recovered from the Project and other urban
projects (para. 7.02). BPU has the capacity to replicate the project, and to manage efficiently other
urban projects in the future (para. 7.03). The Project also had a positive impact on the financial
situation of the Municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina, but the benefits resulting from the
project are likely to be sustained only if very serious attention is provided to the municipal revenues
and expenses (para. 7.01).
Findings and Lessons Learned
&     Project preparation was very long, from 1977 to 1983, partly because the use of UNDP
financing for the feasibility study led to long delays (para. 2.03). The financial arrangements were
difficult to implement owing to the reluctance of the Municipalities to enforce the cost recovery
measures and to reduce the personnel (para. 6.08). The Bank shared with MA the responsibility for
most of the difficulties, because the Project was too sophisticated (para. 8.01), and the Bank
objectives were not those of the Government (para. 4.02). In addition, the practice to adjust the
scope of the works, in the course of the Project, to improve the municipal finances and cost recovery,
even after approval of bidding documents, was not adequate, because this made the implementation
chaotic. A mid-term review would have been more appropriate, because the physical, financial and
institutional components would have been implemented in parallel, and the Mayor of Antananarivo
would have probably been more flexible (para. 5.02).



- iv-
Overall Project Assessment
9.    The Project achieved its physical targets. From the financial point of view, it can be
considered as a good start and new efforts should help consolidate the present project's achievements
over the long term, in particular by ensuring better cost recovery. Institutional improvements were
obtained in Toamasina, but not in Antananarivo, the main city of the project. Overall, because of
the institutional failure in Antananarivo (inefficiency of the technical and financial departments) and
of its inefficient implementation, the project can be considered only partially successful (para. 8.01).



I I



PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1497-MAG)
PART ONE: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Project Identity
Name                     : Urban Development Project
Credit Number            : 1497-MAG
RVP Unit                 : Africa Region
Country                  : Madagascar
Sector                   : Urban Development
2.          Background
2.01        Urban Development was the responsibility of the Directorate of Architecture, Urban
Planning and Housing (DAUH), within the Ministry of Public Works (MTP). DAUH mainly relied
on the experience of the Madagascar Housing Corporation (Socidtd d'Equipement Immobilier de
Madagascar, SEIMAD), a 80 percent Government owned company, to design, promote and manage
housing programs. In 1974, an Urban Master Plan was prepared for Antananarivo, with Government
financing, but the plan was never approved.
2.02        The Government initially approached the Bank for assistance in January 1977. The
first Bank identification mission took place in September 1977, and a second identification mission
in November 1978. The pre-appraisal mission took place in February 1982. The long time elapsed
between identification and preappraisal may have been a sign of low Government commitment to this
project.
2.03        A third mission, in April 1979, proposed that SEIMAD be given overall supervisory
responsibility for the feasibility study. Since UNDP was discussing with the Government the financing
of urban planning studies, one to update the 1974 Master Plan and the other to prepare planning
guidelines and sectoral strategies for the Greater Antananarivo area, it was decided in September
1979 that the feasibility study would be financed by UNDP, together with the above studies. On the
whole, the use of UNDP funds delayed the preparation by at least one additional year.
2.04        On November 19, 1979, UNDP granted the Government US$979,800, to finance a
project called "Development of Urban Programmes", including: (i) study tours; (ii) technical assistance
to DAUH; (iii) a pilot urban project; and (iv) the feasibility study. The Bank was executing agency
and UNCHS associated executing agency for the three first items. Although the Bank was
responsible for the recruitment of a consulting firm, this took more than one year. The firm was
chosen in July 1980, negotiations took place in October 1980, and the contract was signed in
December 1980.



2.05         On December 11, 1982, Government requested from IDA a project Preparation
Facility (PPF), for detailed design and equipment. It was approved on January 20, 1983, for an
amount of US$150,000. The Appraisal Mission took place in June 1983, with six staff and
consultants, but without any engineer. On February 24, 1984, an additional PPF of US$91,000 was
requested by the Government and approved on May 14, 1984.
2.06         Madagascar had experienced a long-term decline in per capita production and income,
widespread deterioration of its physical and social infrastructure, and extreme scarcity of financial
resources, compounded with a heavy debt burden. Since 1982, the Government embarked on
stabilization and adjustment policies supported by four IDA adjustment operations. While significant
progress was achieved in restoring macro-economic equilibrium, real GDP growth remained below
population growth during the project life (1983-1993). There was an evident economic recovery from
about mid-1988, but the political unrest, which began in May 1991, led to an important deterioration.
As regards the Mayor of Antananarivo, his policy was based on his marxist gospel, which made him
reluctant to implement necessary reforms. In addition, he did not want to increase the property tax
rate before improving the living conditions of the population, which is politically understandable.
3.           Project Objectives and Description
3.01         Project Objectives. The project's major objectives were to: (i) improve the financial
and management capacity of municipalities; (ii) strengthen the ability to maintain the most critical
municipal services at least at current levels; (iii) expand the income-earning opportunities of poor and
middle-income families; (iv) demonstrate neighborhoods upgrading as a technically effective means of
improving living conditions while reducing the need for new housing investment; and (v) build up
capacity to design and carry out similar projects on a sustained basis.
3.02         Project Description. The project consisted of: (a) Strengthening of Municipal Revenue
Generation and Financial Management in the Municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina; (b)
Reinforcement of Municipal Technical Services in the same two municipalities, with provision of
equipment and training; (c) Upgrading in the Isotry district of Antananarivo and in four neighborhoods
of Toamasina, including improvements in basic infrastructure and community facilities; (d) Employment
and Income Generation, including technical and financial assistance to artisans and small contractors;
(e) Traffic Management, including improvements in traffic flows at the main junction of Isotry and five
other intersections in Antananarivo, and creation of a Traffic Management Bureau (BCI); and (f)
Project Management and Studies, including technical assistance and studies related to Land Legislation
and means of improving the financial and managerial capability of SEIMAD.
4.           Project Design and Organization
4.01         The project concept was developed, with inputs from Bank staff, over a five and a half-
year period (09/77 to 06/83), by the participating institutions and ministries, mainly SEIMAD with the
help of a consulting firm, which performed well. SEIMAD and the consulting firm had completed
design and cost estimates for two new housing sites and four upgrading programs. The Appraisal
Mission only retained two upgrading operations, and the reason is given by the SAR, para.2.04: "during
preparation, the Government attached great importance to actions that would improve the living
standards of the urban poor. Although the project as designed will indeed better the living conditions
of lower-income families, this was not seen as reason enough for Bank support. Reforms in the
structure of municipal revenues and services came to be considered the central focus...".



- 3 -
4.02         It is clear that the major objective for the Government was to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor, while financial and managerial improvements of the municipalities were
only a means to reach this major objective. On the other side, for the Bank, municipal finance and
institution building were the main objective. This difference of concept was the cause of many
difficulties during project implementation, because MA never fully agreed with project objectives and
methods of implementation.
4.03         The Municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina were responsible for carrying out
measures to strengthen their financial management and technical services. On March 13, 1992, the
municipalities were replaced by "Delegations Sp6ciales", nominated by the Government. For both
upgrading operations, SEIMAD was responsible for implementation, as well as for housing loans.
Traffic management was the responsibility of the Traffic Management Bureau (BCT). Management
of the whole project and coordination was the responsibility of the Project Unit (BPU), assisted by a
technical assistance team. BPU was established by decree No.84.071 of February 15, 1984, and
reported to the Public Works Minister.
4.04         In 1988, a National Technical Committee for Urban Development (CTNDU) was
established, under the auspices of the Prime Minister. In September 1991, a new Ministry of Urban
Development and Tourism (MDUT) was established, comprising DAUH and BPU. By decree
No.92.046, dated January 15, 1992, DAUH became Directorate of Construction and Urbanization
(DCU), and BPU became Directorate of Coordination of Urban Operations (DCOU). However, these
institutions, MDUT and DCOU, disappeared in July 1993, in a Government's reorganization.
5.           Project Implementation
5.01         Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up. The Credit was negotiated in April 1984,
approved on June 12, 1984 and signed on July 3, 1984. The conditions of effectiveness included, in
addition to the usual conditions, the establishment by Antananarivo and Toamasina of surcharges to
recover a portion of upgrading costs from the beneficiaries. The Credit was declared effective on
February 22, 1985.
5.02.       Implementation Schedule. Table 4.A, Part HI, gives the actual implementation
schedule, compared with that estimated at appraisal. Project implementation was originally scheduled
to be completed by June 30, 1990. Although the Credit was effective as forecast at appraisal, most of
the works were long delayed. In addition to the lack of commitment of MA to reform, this is due to
the Bank's position, clearly stated in paras. 6.09 and 6.11 of SAR, that the scope of the works and
provision of equipment would be adjusted, at every stage of the project, to the improvement of
municipal revenues and cost recovery performance. This approach led to years of delay and cost
increases, without taking account of the deterioration of relationships between the Bank and MA. The
use of a Mid-term review would have been more appropriate.
5.03         The most significant illustration of the inefficiency associated with this approach is
related to the rehabilitation works in Isotry, to be realized from 1985 through 1988. Invitation for bids
was advertized on December 7, 1985, and submission of bids took place on February 6, 1986. On
March 23, 1986, BPU proposed to award the contract to Colas, for FMg 985 million. In May 1986,
a supervision report states that 'the Mayors of Antananarivo and Toamasina will decide which physical
actions should move ahead on the basis of realistic projections of municipal revenues and prospects
for cost recovery". After an exchange of many telexes, the Bank proposed, on September 10, 1986,



- 4 -
to cancel the bidding process and to phase out the works, because municipal finances had not improved
as forecast at appraisal. By telex of October 31, 1986, the Bank declared that the Colas contract could
not be financed under the Project. The Mayor of Antananarivo, by letter of December 6, 1986, stated
that the November 1986 supervision mission had verbally agreed to start the works and questioned the
good faith of the Bank staff.
5.04        On February 12, 1987, the Bank insisted on the necessity to phase out the works,
because of the deterioration of the municipal financial situation. A new bidding process was launched
in May 1987 and another contractor was retained for an amount of FMg 884.5 million, for a first phase
representing about 50 percent of the works initially planned. This bidding process was also canceled
in September, but by the Central Tender Board (CCM). A third bidding process was immediately
launched, on September 22, 1987, and concluded by a non-objection telex on February 2, 1988, for
FMg 1,700.3 million, or about twice as much, in nominal terms, as the first award proposal of March
1986, two years earlier !
5.05        The second phase of the works was also delayed,because the Bank, by letter dated
March 11, 1987, required that the loss of the Municipality be reduced to FMg 200 million by June 30,
1988, before launching the second phase. This objective was met, but the aide-memoire of the
September 1988 supervision mission required that five new other conditions be met before the second
phase of the works be undertaken. The Bank authorization was only given by telex of March 17, 1989,
following another supervision mission, and the appointment of a new task manager.
5.06        A second example of unjustified delays is related to the improvement of five street
intersections in Antananarivo. The bidding process was advertized on May 31, 1986, and bids
submitted on July 16, 1986. On September 23, 1986, BPU proposed to award the contract for FMg
89.1 million, and specified that the limit of bid validity was October 16, 1986. The Bank replied on
February 19, 1987, by a non-objection telex, but it was too late: not one contractor accepted to
maintain its bid. Finally, after a new consultation, the contract was signed in April 1987 with the same
contractor for FMg 114.1 million.
5.07        This method of adjusting the construction works to the financial capacity of the
municipalities lead the Bank to request at every supervision mission the review of their financial
situation. The consequence was that the financial technical assistance, planned to stop in June 1988,
was extended through the end of the project, in December 1992. When the Loan Committee package
was cleared by the Senior Vice President Operations, on February 27, 1984, one of his comments was
that the total of technical assistance and studies represented 19 percent of the base cost, and he
requested this percentage be lowered. At the end of the project the actual percentage had reached
42 percent.
5.08        The Development Credit Agreement included, as Part E of the Project, a housing loans
component for a total of SDR 470,000. This component was a failure, since only 15 loans, for a total
of FMg 15,535,672 (about US$10,000) were granted. This component was canceled in 1992. The
reason is that SAR proposed SEIMAD as executing agency for the loans, although SEIMAD was not
a mortgage bank, nor simply a bank. It was a developer, without any experience in housing loan
management. The loans should have been granted through a financial institution. Under the Cyclone
Project, appraised six months later, housing credits for a total of two million US dollars were easily
granted through two local banks, BFV and BTM.



- 5 -
5.09        Procurement. The procurement process was hampered and delayed because the scope
of the works were reduced and tenders were canceled after the approval of the bidding documents, for
reasons not related to this bidding process (paras. 5.02 to 5.06). In addition, Bank guidelines were not
always followed:
(a)    Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement, section D.1, specifies that only
contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 for civil works and US$50,000 for
goods would require a prior review by the Bank. However, BPU requested Bank
approval for many small contracts, and the Bank did not remind the BPU that it was
not required. An example is a telex, dated November 5, 1986, requesting authorization
for the purchase of printer cartridges and printing paper, to cost about US$1,200 and
900, respectively. The Bank replied by a non objection telex;
(b)   SAR states, para. 4.12, that prequalification of contractors would not be required,
because the works are not excessively complex. This could be questioned, particularly
for drainage works and the pumping station to be built 8 meters below ground in a
flooded area. Nevertheless, short lists for civil works or purchase of goods were
requested: (bl) for a civil works contract, the Bank requested by telex dated April 16,
1986 and, by telex dated April 23, 1986, confirmed its request to receive the "short list"
of contractors; (b2) for a goods contract, the Bank had no objection to a "short list"
proposed by BPU (telex of August 2, 1988); and (b3) in the same telex, for a civil
works contract, the Bank approved a "short list" of six local firms.
5.10        Project Costs. A comparison between the appraisal estimates and the actual costs of
the project is given in Part III, section 5 A. The appraisal cost estimate was US$18.0 million (about
SDR 17.0 million), and the final cost was US$16.7 million, i.e. a cost underrun of 7.2 percent. The
Govemment's contribution, estimated at appraisal at FMg 2.08 billion, jumped to FMg 5.2 billion but,
expressed in USS was reduced from US$5.2 million to US$3.7 million. During project implementation,
the US dollar/SDR exchange rate went from US$1.06 to US$1.40 to SDR 1, increasing the US dollar
value of the Credit from US$12.8 million to US$15.8 million.
5.11          Disbursements. In Part mI, Table 3, actual quarterly disbursements of the Credit are
compared with the appraisal estimates and the profile of urban project disbursements in Africa.
Disbursements were spread over nine years, which compares with a seven-and-a-half-year disbursement
period for the appraisal estimate, as well as for the profile of urban projects in Africa. The original
closing date of December 31, 1991 was extended to December 31, 1992, then to June 30, 1993, but
only for the tiles plant (Part F1), assistance to small contractors (Part F4) and audit reports (Part H5).
Disbursements on commitments took place through October 6, 1993, and the outstanding balance of
SDR 1,864,508.04 was canceled.
5.12        Credit Allocation. The original and revised allocations by category and the actual
disbursements under Credit 1497-MAG are shown in table 5.D, Part m. It is worth noting that there
were twenty six disbursement categories in Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Although category 4, consultants' services and training, was overdrawn by SDR 1.67 million, no formal
reallocation of funds was made, and this amount was drawn from category 9, unallocated. On the
other hand, categories 1 and 2 were only used at 82 percent and 79 percent, because the works were
reduced. For category 6, housing loans, 12 percent were disbursed, out of a total of SDR 470,000
(para. 5.08).



-6-
6.           Project Results
6.01         Project Objectives. Overall, the project was not successful in meeting its key objective
of improving the financial and management capacity of the municipalities. Nevertheless, it helped
the municipalities reevaluate the property tax basis, and significant improvements have been obtained
and can further be expected for the next years. It also improved the living conditions in low income
areas of the cities of Antananarivo and Toamasina. The project also assisted in strengthening the
management and organization of the executing agencies involved in the urban sector, the BPU and
SEIMAD, and their capacity to implement subsequent projects. In addition, the employment and
income generation component, after a slow and difficult start, lead to the creation of three private
companies for wood, steel and tiles.
6.02         Physical Results. The physical targets of the project were substantially achieved. In
Antananarivo, the districts of Isotry and Anatihazo were rehabilitated, but not as planned. The
feasibility study had proposed separate drainage and sewerage systems. In order to reduce the cost,
the Bank requested the consulting firm to design a combined system. The consultant refused, saying
that the system would be over-flooded during the rainy season, and that the sewage could not be
evacuated during the dry season. Instead of using the experience of other Bank staff, knowledgeable
of country conditions and responsible for other projects under implementation, a consultant was
recruited to give an advise without any mission to Madagascar. On December 15, 1982, the
consultant concluded that "the solution which appeared feasible is to design and construct an effective
storm water drainage system. The thought was that by eliminating the regular storm water flooding,
then the existing pit latrine type sanitation could function effectively". Probably, the consultant did
not know that the plain has a surface of 50 km2, and an effective storm water system on 0.5 km2
cannot lower the entire water table. When the works were completed, in 1989, the residents
connected their waste water systems to the drainage system which, therefore, does not function
correctly. To give an explanation to this mistake, it is worth noting that, from 1977 to 1989, not one
engineer was member of a Bank mission (see Part III, Table 8.B).
6.03         Due to the delay, and to the decision to adjust the scope of the works to the financial
capability of the municipality, all the works planned were not realized. Nonetheless, the living
conditions of 80,000 inhabitants have been dramatically improved. A surface of 50 ha has been
rehabilitated, including improvement of existing streets and construction of access roads, pedestrian
streets, lined channels and box culverts, standpipes, street lighting, containers for solid waste and
upgrading of the Isotry market. These works have been supplemented by the improvement of five
street intersections in Antananarivo and the resurfacing of 9 km of paved roads. This latter
component, which had not been planned at appraisal, was realized in 1992 .
6.04         In Toamasina, four neighborhoods were rehabilitated, for a surface of 154 ha:
Ambalakisoa, Ankirihiry, Mangarivotra and Morarano. The program included paving and resurfacing
of 3 km roads, construction of drainage canals, installation of 37 standpipes and 7 fire hydrants,
construction of 112 washing points and extension of the street lighting network. The scope of the
works was also reduced: 14 standpipes were installed instead of 37, no fire hydrant and no washing
point. Nevertheless, the living conditions of a population of 30,000 inhabitants were substantially
improved. The Project also financed a dispensary to provide first aid to the poorest population of
Toamasina. In addition, the Emergency Cyclone Project (Credit 1526-MAG) financed in 1988 the
rehabilitation of about 10 km of paved roads, which had a great impact on the whole city.



-7-
6.05        In November 1986, when JIRAMA was requested to install the 37 standpipes, it
replied that this was impossible, because the production capacity was only 12,000 m'/day, for a water
demand of about 20,000 m3/day. The Bank accepted to finance from the Credit a feasibility study for
the reinforcement of the production facilities. The study was completed at the end of 1988. The cost
estimate was about US$5.0 million, of which 3 million for the treatment plant and the pumping
station, and 2 million for the reinforcement of the distribution network. The Bank decided that there
were not enough remaining funds in the Credit to finance this component, not forecast at appraisal.
A good opportunity to improve the living conditions in Toamasina was lost.
6.06        The employment and income generation component, after a slow and difficult start,
was a success. Originally, the Project was to help create three cooperatives to make building
materials and tools. Three private companies were established: (i) a wood-working unit to produce
doors, windows and furniture, MATRACEM; (ii) a production unit of tools and metallic construction
materials, HAIVY; and (iii) a facility to produce bricks and tiles, CIMATEC. The first two are in
operation since 1990, and the third one is still awaiting some equipment, which should be delivered
by the end of 1993. These firms employ about 210 workers on a permanent basis.
6.07        Institutional Performance. On the institutional side, the main result of the project
was that the Government, the ministries concerned, the municipalities as well as the urban agencies
realized the importance of the urban sector in the development process, and the necessity to assure
good municipal management and finances. An indirect consequence was the establishment of a
Ministry of Urban Development and Tourism, and the creation of a permanent institution for the
coordination of urban projects (DCOU). However, these institutions disappeared in July 1993 in a
Government's reorganization. SEIMAD was reorganized under the project and its study department
became a separate consulting firm (JARY). In addition, the FIHU was created by decree No.87-287
of August 4, 1987 (instead of December 31, 1985, as required by section 3.06 of DCA). All
reimbursements of subsidiary loans were to be deposited in this Fund. This has already been done
by MT and CENAM.
6.08        The Project made a major impact on the strengthening of the institutions involved,
except MA, which, up to 1989, for political reasons, made no effort to meet the conditions of the
Credit Agreement. In particular, the Mayor never agreed to stop the recruitment, in order to reduce
the staff which was redundant. He always was reluctant to implement the training program which,
in fact, was too large (786 man/months). On the other hand, the project helped MT improve its
organization and management. The staff has been reduced by extinction from 1000 to 357. The
financial department is working very well, and so was the technical department (until the departure
of the technical director). The project helped MT build a dispensary to provide first aid to one of
the poorest neighborhoods of Toamasina. The dispensary now has two physicians and a team of
nurses.
6.09        The Project also had a great impact on SEIMAD strengthening, which is now better
organized to carry out its functions, because the project financed a reorganization study and has been
successful in training its staff. Concerning BPU, it performed well its functions of coordination, with
the same director from 1985 to 1991, but it was inefficient with MA. It would have the capacity to
manage new urban projects, with only minor external technical assistance.
6.10        The project included the creation of a Traffic Management Bureau (BCT) to
coordinate all the traffic and transportation actions. It was established temporarily within BPU, and



carried out traffic studies. Studies were carried out to decide on the future of BCT, and it was
proposed to transfer BCr to the Ministry of Transport. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached
with this ministry, and BCT disappeared at the end of 1989.
6.11         Financial Performance. The project accounts of MT, BPU, SEIMAD and CENAM
were regularly audited by an external auditor, and the reports were received (with some delays) by
the Bank. For MA there were some problems until 1989 (see para.9.02)
6.12         The financial results of Antananarivo Municipality are shown in Part III, table 6.B.
The global revenue was below appraisal estimate from 1984 to 1990. For 1991 and 1992, we do not
know yet the final collection rate of property taxes. It is assumed on the table to be 100 percent,
which is not realistic. In the past, the collection rate was about 50 percent after one year and 80
percent after two years. The property tax return is generally issued very late, and this has a negative
impact on the municipal revenue. Nevertheless, the 1990 property census multiplied the property
values by seven to twenty. It is clearly the main financial impact of the Project. In 1992, the
Municipality repaid FMg 500 million of its debt.
6.13         Concerning the municipal expenses, the Project helped resolve a long dispute over
the payment of water and electricity bills to JIRAMA. The Municipality had paid no bills for years,
because of a controversy over assets owned by the Municipality. This lead to a non-compliance with
section 3.04 of the Project Agreement, which required that municipal arrears be reduced to three
months of billing. On January 20, 1989, the two institutions signed an agreement and the
Government decided to grant an indemnity of FMg 10 billion to settle the dispute. A first payment
of FMg 3.2 billion was directly made to JIRAMA, but the rest was not paid to the Municipality.
Since that date, JIRAMA bills have been regularly paid, which is a significant result. In June 1993,
the Government Council decided to pay the arrears of all the municipalities to JIRAMA.
6.14         The Project helped the Municipality of Toamasina improve its financial situation, with
better results than in Antananarivo. The Mayor was more responsive and the staff more competent.
Since 1988, the municipal revenue was superior to that forecast at appraisal (Table 6.B, Part III), with
a positive average balance of about FMg 450 million. The Municipality has already reimbursed FMg
900 million of its subsidiary loan.
6.15         Cost Recovery. It was expected at appraisal that on-site infrastructure costs in areas
to be upgraded (22 percent of the Project costs) would be recovered directly through a surcharge to
be levied on residents. Establishment by the municipalities concerned of surcharges, based on
property rental values and linked to the specific upgrading investments, were a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit. Nonetheless, this was never done because it was totally unrealistic: in
Isotry, the tax product from households was about FMg 12.7 million, which compared with the
surcharge of FMg 44.94 million. The tax collection rate was already very low, and obviously the
population of this ward, chosen for its poverty, was unable to afford such a big tax increase. MA
resolved the problem by establishing, in 1990, a surcharge to the property tax, but for the whole city.
In Toamasina, the Municipality charged a land rent to the residents of the rehabilitated
neighborhoods, instead of a surcharge. This rent product was only FMg 2.6 million in 1990, 1.9
million in 1991 and 640,000 in 1992. This decline is due to the fact that tax collection is not yet
completed.



6.16         Other Project costs, relating to the strengthening of revenues and financial
management, improvement of technical services, off-site upgrading works and traffic management will
be recovered indirectly through the property taxes payable by the population of each city. The rest
of the costs, concerning community facilities, assistance to CENAM and BCT, project management,
studies and technical assistance will be absorbed by the Government.
7.           Project Sustainability
7.01         The project has had a significant positive impact in that it has caused new institutional
and financial arrangements to be put in place in the urban sector, assuring a better management of
the sector and improving the municipal finances of MA and MT. However, the Government and the
municipalities need to continue their efforts in the areas of tax property return and collection. The
benefits resulting from the project are likely to be sustained only if very serious attention is provided
to the municipal revenues and expenses.
7.02         The FIHU, established under the project, can help the Government finance
rehabilitation of infrastructure, as a permanent source of lending to local governments for
maintenance or extension of drainage, sanitation and other urban infrastructure. It will work as a
mechanism for replicating actions undertaken and recycling the funds recovered directly from the
Project and other urban projects.
7.03         The BPU, established at the start of the Project for its management and coordination,
has the capacity to replicate the project and to manage efficiently urban projects in the future.
8.           Bank Performance
8.01         The Bank shared with the Mayor of Antananarivo the responsibility for most of the
difficulties faced by the Project: delays, reduction in the scope of the works, procurement problems
and failure of the housing loan component. This was mainly due to the Bank's position, clearly stated
in para. 6.09 of SAR, that the scope of the works and provision of equipment would be adjusted, at
every stage of the project, to the improvement of municipal revenues and cost recovery performance.
A project cannot be timely implemented with these constraints. Moreover, the project appraisal had
several shortcomings: (i) the choice of SEIMAD for managing the housing loans was a mistake; (ii)
the decision to move out the sewerage system in Isotry was a big technical mistake (due to the fact
that no Bank engineer was involved in the Project); (iii) the financial analysis was not realistic; and
(iv) the appraisal mission did not correctly assess the extent of the urban poverty in Madagascar in
1983. Therefore, the direct cost recovery mechanism, from the beneficiaries, was inapplicable. In
addition, during implementation, the Bank wasted a lot of time to manage directly the Project
through a lot of interventions on minor problems which should have been resolved by the BPU.
8.02         Supervision by IDA was relatively continuous, with only two task managers: a total
of 16 supervision missions visited Madagascar, at the rate of two a year, representing a total of 695
staff/days in the field. Some 315.1 staff-weeks were spent on this project over the entire project
cycle, which is very high. The details of staff input and missions are given in Part III, section 8, tables
A and B.



- 10 -
9.           Borrower Performance
9.01         On the technical side, thanks to its competent staff, helped by a technical assistance
team, the BPU turned in a good performance: the bidding documents were prepared on schedule,
with the bid evaluation reports prepared on time and the contracts well supervised. On the other
hand, the Mayor of Antananarivo was reluctant to follow Bank recommendations, and his
performance was very poor. A new Municipal Board was installed at the end of 1989, but they had
not enough time to improve the situation before the political unrest of 1991 and 1992. The
performance of MT was much better. SEIMAD and CENAM met their obligations under the
Project, and their contribution was positive.
9.02         Quarterly reports were submitted by BPU to IDA in a timely manner up to March
31, 1992. BPU retained independent auditors to prepare its own, and SEIMAD, CENAM and MT
accounts. The Mayor of Antananarivo refused to have the municipal project accounts audited by a
private firm. It had been agreed at negotiations that the municipal accounts would be audited by the
Directorate of Financial Control, within the Ministry of Finance. Since this directorate was too busy
to carry out this audit, nothing was done until 1989. The other accounts were regularly and
satisfactorily audited up to 1992. There were some delays at the beginning, but generally the audit
reports were received within one year after the end of the fiscal year concerned, instead of the eight
months stipulated in the DCA (Section 4.01.c.i.a).
10.         Project Relationship
10.01       The relationship between the different parties involved in the project implementation
was not very good. IDA's relationship with BPU on the project has been relatively good, as well as
with SEIMAD, CENAM and MT. Relations with MA were rather strained in 1986/89, as a result of
problems connected with delays in the start of upgrading works. Borrower-contractors relationships
were not good, because of the delays in awarding the contracts. Relationships with consultants were
good.
11.         Consultant Services
11.01       The feasibility study was a very good job, as well as the final design. During
implementation, the technical assistance provided by the consulting firm was in general competent
and efficient. Nevertheless, the results of the technical assistance to MA are questionable, even if
the main responsibility rests with the Municipality.
12.         Project Documentation and Data
12.01       The original documentation for the project was adequate and appropriate. The
appraisal report provided a useful framework for both IDA and BPU in their review of project
implementation.



- 11 -
PART TWO: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(This is an English Translation of the document originally written in French)
INTRODUCTION
In accordance with the new guidelines adopted by the World Bank, this document
constitutes the Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Direction de la Coordination des
Operations Urbaines (DCOU - Directorate for the Coordination of Urban Operations) of the Ministry
for Urban Development and Tourism.
It summarizes the main activities carried out under IDA Credit 1497-MAG, following
its closing on December 31, 1992 (with the exception of one component relating to the completion
of the Third Employment Unit (the brick and tile production unit in Ilafy, with CENAM as executing
agency), for which an extension until June 30, 1993 was granted by the Donor.
Finally, the purpose of the PCR is also to convey the views of the Borrower, i.e. the
Republic of Madagascar, on the impact of the project and on project performance in general.
We would just remind the reader that the Donor prepares a separate document, which
forms Part II [sic] of the PCR.
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
The Madagascar Urban Development Project was identified in 1978, appraised in July
1983, negotiated in February 1984 and became effective in February 1985.
The project was originally scheduled for completion in December 31, 1991 but was
extended to December 31, 1992, with the exception of the Third Employment Unit, i.e. the brick and
tile production unit, for which the closing date was set at June 30, 1993.
The project's major objectives were to:
-     improve the financial and management capacity of the municipalities of Antananarivo,
the capital city (with a population of approximately 1 million), and Toamasina, the
country's most important maritime port (with a population of 150,000);
-     strengthen the operating capability of the municipal technical services of these two
cities;
-     create employment opportunities for poor and middle-income urban residents;
-     improve the living conditions of residents of the poorest neighborhoods by upgrading
existing-or building new-basic infrastructure and community facilities;



- 12 -
establish permanent capacity (in institutional and financial terms) to plan and
implement similar projects;
improve, in general, the living and operating conditions of these two municipalities.
2. BRIEF PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The main components of the Project are:
a)    Municipal revenue and the financial management of the Municipalities of
Antananarivo and Toamasina:
Improving management of property taxes and other municipal revenues
Reorganizing financial services
Normalizing budgetary "liabilities"
Technical assistance
b)    Municipal technical services
Reorganizing and equipping the services
Providing basic and refresher training for personnel
Technical assistance
c)    Rehabilitation of poor neighborhoods
-      JUpgrading of basic infrastructure and community facilities in Isotry (Antananarivo)
and in four neighborhoods of Toamasina
-     Technical assistance to SEIMAD (Madagascar Housing Corporation), the designated
contracting authority for the works
d)    Technical and financial assistance to generate employment In the construction
materials and building tools sector
e)    TraMc management in Antananarivo
-     Improving automobile traffic and pedestrian flows in Isotry and at five other 'black
spots' in the city
-     Setting up a Bureau de Circulation et de Transport - BCT (Traffic Management
Bureau - TMB)
f)    Project management and studies
Technical, institutional and financial management of the project
Studies of various kinds: land ownership legislation, future status of the Project
Management Unit (PMU), reorganization of SEIMAD, Fonds de l'Infrastructure pour
l'Habitat Urbain (FIHU).



- 13 -
3. RESULTS UPON PROJECT COMPLETION
The results achieved, as compared to the project objectives and to the stipulations
contained in the Credit Agreement, are as follows:
a)    Municipality of Antananarivo
a.1   Financial management and efforts to rehabilitate the municipal institution
i -    Establishment of a financial rehabilitation contrat-plan between the Central
Administration and the Municipality:
Signature in 1988 and beginning of implementation in 1991 of debt
rescheduling agreements between the Treasury Department (Subsidiary Loans
of the PDA Project) and the Directorate of Taxes (taxes generated by the
urban project and the PDA Project).
Signature in 1989 of a protocol of agreement concerning the
settlement of JIRAMA's invoices between the latter and the Municipality:
settlement by the Government of all arrears dated prior to December 31,
1987, settlement of 1990 invoices by the Municipality, with a delay equivalent
to three months of invoicing, resolution under preparation for the settlement
of 1989 invoices by offsetting the respective debts of the Government and the
Municipality, in accordance with the findings of an ad hoc commission
(Ministry of Finance, Industry and Public Works) responsible for studying the
legal dispute concerning the compensation of the Municipality of
Antananarivo, following the nationalization of this company in 1979.
ii -   Updating in 1990 of taxes on market places in addition to the provisions
contained in the Credit Agreement (+ 140 percent), coupled with the reorganization
of collection methods and the redistribution of retail spaces (eviction of illicit street
vendors).
iii -   Updating in 1990 of municipal sector revenues (in accordance with project
recommendations), particularly, the increase in the monthly rent payable on sales
booths at the Analakely market from FMg 7,500 to  FMg 30,000.
iv -   Updating of tax bases on land and constructed property (property census in
1987 and 1990) and the tax rates. Provision of data processing equipment to the
Directorate of Taxes in order to speed up assessments.
v -   Establishment of a Financial Directorate at the Municipality level and then
a reorganization of this office and its management methods by introducing an internal
audit system.
vi -   Freeze on the staff recruitment to replace members of staff who retire.
Nevertheless, this measure does not concern senior management staff.



- 14 -
vii - Establishment of a unit attached to the Maine to provide support to the
services, study development prospects and provide programming and monitoring
services (CARPS) and thereby implement project recommendations concerning the
need to form a commission to program and monitor municipal activities.
The overall result (particularly since 1990) is that the new municipal team has
been able to program, into the 1991 budget, compliance with various financial
agreements among the Mairie's priorities (particularly payment of installments due
under the 'urban project" subsidiary loan).
a.2    Rehabilitation of municipal technical services
i - Reorganization of Direction de Developpement Urbain (DDUE - Directorate
of Urban Development) within the Mairie
The following activities were achieved under the project: the provision
of permanent technical assistance by the project (two years, starting in 1986), training
courses abroad for municipal engineers at Mainies in France (total immersion method),
the production of a reorganization program for the Directorate that could be
implemented immediately. Some roadblocks (blocages) were encountered in the
ranks, however, during the implementation of this component. A certain number of
the reorganization measures recommended were, in fact, not put into effect.
ii -   Reorganization of the "equipment maintenance" service and provision of
equipment: Problems relating to the physical distribution of the workshops and the
supply system still remain. The equipment management methods recommended by
the permanent technical assistance (two years, starting in 1987) were not assimilated.
The lower-echelon staff (laborers, mechanics and other supervisory staff) were,
on the other hand, very receptive to the training they received either on the job or
at specialized local agencies.
Similarly, the equipment renewaVupgrading program was carried out
relatively smoothly.
a.3   Rehabilitation of the Isotry Anatihazo neighborhood.
The rehabilitation works were carried out in step with the progress made in
the area of municipal finances. It had, in fact, seemed a good time to encourage the
Municipality to go ahead with implementing the financial rehabilitation measures in
order to provide the means for project cost recovery.
This step resulted in a reduction in the amount of works to be carried
out, with the elimination of the sewerage system component.
The various delays in the start-up date of the works (tied to the actual
progress made in implementing the financial rehabilitation measures and further delayed by
the cancellation of the invitations to tender, followed by their reissue, based on revised



- 15 -
technical specifications) resulted in the total costs being caught up by the effects of inflation,
which thus canceled out the savings aimed for in the reduction of the initial works program.
In technical terms, the operational objectives were achieved: the storm
water drainage system (open channels, buried gutters, pumping basin, pumping
station) and the tertiary road system (whether suitable for vehicular traffic or not)
were completed.
Failure to build a main sewer has left behind the problem of sewage disposal
and misunderstanding on the part of the residents. The latter use the "storm water"
channels (illegal connections), already causing obstructions in the system, which was
not built for this type of use and puts an excessive strain on the water in the pumping
basin.
There is therefore a constant risk that the pumping station will suffer
deterioration unless the Municipality commits to a continuous maintenance and
cleaning program of the gutters and the basin.
a.4   Improvement of urban traffic and mass transit
Five intersections were rehabilitated (road resurfacing) and three of these
equipped with traffic lights. In addition, in the center of Isotry two bus shelters were
built and the "storm water" gutters were cleaned and rehabilitated.
A second tranche of similar works are currently in progress in the same area
and will be completed by early 1991.
The Traffic Management Bureau (a specialized unit within the Project
Management Unit) was commissioned by the Mauie to prepare a bus terminal
reorganization plan.  Implementation of this plan began in 1990 (terminal
departments at the entrances to the central zones of the city, thus relieving traffic
congestion along the main artery of the Avenue de l'Inddpendence, one of the of
main generators of traffic).
a.5    Rehabilitation of the Isotry Market
In accordance with the program planned, the work carried out focused on the
booths used by butchers and other traders, the platforms, food stands and part of the
grain warehouse.
Here, too, regular maintenance of the premises will only be effective provided
that the users ensure the appropriate maintenance of the equipment.
a.6    Rehabilitation of certain streets in Antananarivo (1992)
During the second half of 1992 it was possible to rehabilitate almost 7 km of
roads in the city of Antananarivo, using the remainder of the Credit. The stretches
of road selected were in various neighborhoods where the deterioration was advanced



- 16 -
and where the traffic is always as heavy as everywhere else: Lac de Behoririka,
descent to the Route des Hydrocarbures (Hydrocarbon Road), a portion of the
Circular Road, South exit from the city toward the Route Digue (Embankment
Road).
b.    Municipality of Toamasina
b.1   Financial rehabilitation of municipal management
i-    Implementation of a contrat-plan for financial rehabilitation between the
Mairie of Toamasina and the Central Government.
Launched in 1988, this plan produced very encouraging results once the terms
of the agreement were accepted by the local authorities.
The first signs of recovery were seen in the 1988 administrative accounts,
which showed a budgetary surplus in the order of FMg 400 million on an original
budget in the order of FMg 600 million.
This trend was maintained and led to a threefold increase in the original
budget by the end of three years of using the rehabilitation measures.
The first consequences were seen in the investment budget, which enabled the
Municipality to rehabilitate the main roads of the city.
The excessive payroll of the local government was cut from 400 to 180 people,
thanks to a plan not to renew short-term contracts and because of the retirement of
some staff (result: drop in salary costs).
Relationship with JIRAMA have more or less normalized, based on a contract
for the settlement of arrears (appropriately executed). There is no longer any delay
in the payment of current invoices thanks to a method of establishing invoices
calculated in consultation with the two parties and the installation of standpipe meters
(managed by the grassroots communities themselves).
The Mairie of Toamasina makes regular payments on the due dates pertaining
to the various finance agreements entered into with the Treasury Department
(subsidiary loan agreement under the urban project):
Agreement for the consolidation of arrears on social security contributions;
Agreement for the staggered payment of the taxe unique des transactions (TUT -
standard transaction tax) incurred by the urban project.
Similarly, any invoices not paid to private suppliers have now been paid in full.



- 17 -
ii -   Improvement in municipal revenues
Two property tax censuses were carried out (1987 and 1990). Efforts are
currently focusing on recovery performance, which leaves room for improvement in
the poorest neighborhoods.
The new taxes on contracts and the tax on water have been in force since
1989.
The negotiations entered into by the Ministry of Finance have, to some extent,
improved the regularity of transfers (refunds).
iii -   The financial service
The improvement of working methods, the recruitment of new professional
staff, the conduct of an organizational audit of the service were all useful
achievements, but proved insufficient.
The management structure remains rather fragile because of the shortage of
professional staff capable of doing anything more than simple accounting. Efficient
utilization of municipal resources requires, in the short-term, the establishment of a
programming and monitoring service.
iv -   Reorganization and equipping of technical municipal services
The project has enabled the city to appropriately equip itself with household
trash collection equipment, equipment for emptying septic tanks, equipment for quick
repair of roads and gutters, and also to install maintenance equipment in the
renovated municipal repair shops.
The technical service obtained, on a short-lived basis, the services of a civil
engineer. The unsuccessful conclusion of procedures for the permanent hiring of this
valuable professional raises, in light of his departure, the question of how this
situation can be corrected. The main procedure will require the authorities
responsible to agree to a restructuring of the organization chart of the Maire and to
the institution of salaries that are more attractive to candidates of this level.
v -    Rehabilitation of neighborhoods
Despite the fears triggered by the fact that this was a pilot civil engineering
project and by the weakness of the "installation," the project operations went smoothly
and were completed on time.
The "pedagogic' approach adopted in Antananarivo received no negative
reactions from the local authorities of Toamasina. The implementation of the contrat-
plan without any major problem facilitated the execution of the physical operations
of the project.



- 18 -
Here, too, the risk of the lack of maintenance of the new infrastructure is a
real one. The solution to this problem lies in the capability of the technical staff
(nonexistent as of today) to schedule the maintenance work, issue bidding invitations
for it in accordance with appropriate procedures and to monitor it, in the capacity of
contracting authority. This is a responsibility that no technician currently employed
by the Mairie is able to assume.
vi -   Establishment of a health center (or urban community clinic)
The building of this center provided an opportunity to test the "small
contractor assistance" component of the project.
The results observed at the start of the works revealed the very poor technical
standard and site management skills of these subcontractors. Similar, in legal terms,
to a small enterprise, the subcontractor used for the construction of the center had
to relinquish its contract because of its totally inadequate performance.
A new invitation to bid was issued in order to hire a competent and reputable
contractor. The conversion of the existing building then went smoothly and was
completed in a highly satisfactory manner. The Center has been in operation (with
adequate staff and budget) since 1990.
C.    CENAM (Centre National de I'Artisanat Malgache)
The employment generation program for poor and middle-income residents is currently 70
percent completed.
This program initially aimed to promote artisans in the construction materials and tools sector
(metal-working, wood-working and earthenware production). The technical, financial and economic
studies did not guarantee the maintenance of the "artisan" level of such enterprises. Similarly, the
political-economic circumstances of the country favour more the promotion of small and medium-
scale industry.
It was thus decided to maintain and execute three wood-working, metal working/tool-making
and brick- and tile-making SMI units.
The first two units (wood and metal) are now in operation and the results for the start-up
year (1990) look promising.
The third unit (brick- and tile-making) is not yet in operation because it was not possible to
complete the furnace in time.
CENAM's experience with this type of activity is undocumented. The establishment of a
special division within this agency marks the beginning of some direction of these activities within the
SMI promotion sector.
Real-life experience with this project, however, demonstrates the need to upgrade the skill
level in this Center, since its current staff are still unable to properly handle the administrative,



- 19 -
technical and financial management of this type of project. The low salary level also precludes the
hiring of high-caliber staff.
d.    Soci6t6 d'Equipement Immobilier de Madagascar (SEIMAD) was involved in the project in
several capacities: organizational audit of its services (see section on the PMU), contracting authority
in charge of the rehabilitation of the neighborhoods, executing agency of the "housing loans" and
"small contractor assistance' components of the project.
The activities of the small contractor assistance component involved the various civil
construction works. The forms for inviting small contractors to bid were various in nature: direct
invitations to bid (Health Center), subcontracting through more experienced enterprises (road
maintenance and drainage in Isotry Anatihazo and Isotry Center).
The appropriations made to this component were therefore used, in practice, depending on the
individual case, to pay for trainer fees (SEIMAD in Toamasina) or to honor the discounts of
enterprises that held contracts and that subcontracted some of the works (Isotry). In accounting terms,
however, only those items directly related to the works under consideration were mobilized.
The "housing loan" component had poor success among the residents, despite a publicity
campaign and awareness-raising meetings conducted in the neighborhoods (Isotry) and the
commitment of the Municipality to guarantee the loans (Toamasina).
Some 15 small loans were issued. The main problem in Isotry seems to concern property
ownership (joint ownership in most cases, and residents being reluctant to take formal steps to change
the joint ownership status into sole ownership).
In Toamasina, borrowing is frowned upon by the population despite very favorable lending
terms.
e.    Project management and various studies (PMU and TMB)
e.1    The institutional building component of the project
Thanks to the total commitment of the executing agencies to the project
implementation system, it was possible to test whether or not they were capable of
fully performing their role as contracting authority for the components that involved
them.
The traditional administrative structure of the executing agencies has not
always lent itself to the specific working methods entailed in project implementation.
The creation of special units within the agencies was intended to overcome this type
of problem (the "employment" unit, in the case of CENAM, the "urbanization" unit,
in the case of SEIMAD).
In the case of the Municipalities, it was decided, in light of the organizational
progress expected, to use the existing services. However, the customary working
methods were not compatible with the performance expected, (rate of disbursement,
role of contracting authority in general).



- 20 -
The Project Management Unit primarily served as promoter and technical,
administrative and financial coordinator.
This was Madagascar's first experience of coordinating a project in the urban
sector, in which responsibility for subprogram implementation was entrusted to
decentralized local authorities that were experiencing difficulties of several types
(financial, equipment, human resources, organization of services, socio-political
circumstances of the cities).
In summary, the PMU focused its efforts on the following aspects:
i - The coherent management of the components entrusted to different contracting
authorities (Municipalities, SEIMAD, CENAM, Ministry) and ensuring that the
implementation of all the components was consistent with the original objectives of
the project. This coordination function was performed primarily by distributing
information among the partners, issuing opinions (whenever necessary) on the
technical files prepared by the contracting authorities, and by the operation of
technical controls through the permanent technical assistance provided by PMU.
i - The operation of accounting and financial management grouped by the different
components in the form of consolidated balance sheets on the operations in relation
to the estimates of the Credit Agreement.
ini - The monitoring of the setting in place of credits through "certifications" drawn
up for all disbursement requests made by the contracting authorities.
iv - Ensuring the replicability of the project by submitting new programs and
presenting a sustainable system of rolling over funds recovered from operations
carried out.
The coordination function is thus rather broad in scope and is performed
horizontally, in the case of all spatially distributed components, and vertically, from
the study phase through to the implementation of the system for recovering the funds
invested and including project execution along the way.
At the start-up of the project, the ambiguity caused by the extremely unclear
by-laws of the PMU, which was "set up within the Ministry of Public Works" but was
missing from this Ministry's organization chart, meant that its activities did not
conform to usual practices.
As a matter of fact, the Director of the PMU is, in actual fact, neither the
head of a service nor of a directorate in the administrative sense of the term. The
PMU is not an administrative unit but a "complex operation" similar to a "Mission."
Its interministerial role makes it crucial that its responsibilities be more clearly
defined.
During project implementation, its main concern was to "protect" the project
by ensuring that it proceeded normally. As works on the project advanced, ideas



- 21 -
matured and a clearer understanding developed in the individual government agencies
as to the scope of the actions involved in such a complex project, and as to the
coordination required in relation to the PMU, which paved the way for a renewal of
institutional dialogue.
A Comite National Technique du DAveloppement Urbain (CTNDU) was thus
established in 1987 under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister and with
representatives from the government agencies involved in the Urban Project, in
particular, and in the urban sector, in general (Ministries of Public Works, Finance,
the Plan, Internal Affairs, Industry and Transport and the Ministry responsible for
land ownership).
This body was put to work in examining the most complex project documents,
which called for extensive consultation:
-     Law case between JIRAMA and Municipality of Antananarivo
-     Proposed final by-laws of the PMU
-     Fonds d'Infrastructure pour Habitat Urban (FIHU - Urban Housing Infrastructure
Fund)
-     Proposed revision of land ownership legislation in urban areas.
f.    Technical Assistance to executing agencies and to the project in general
This activity, which was carried out by the PMU, was, for several reasons, one of the
mainstays of project implementation.
First, because many exploratory studies, construction plans, institution reorganization plans
and proposals concerning institutions were carried out within the framework of Technical Assistance.
Then, because the introduction of institution rehabilitation measures and measures for the
close monitoring of the project's progress called for a permanent presence within the executing
agencies, which was not always immediately accepted (Fivondronana Antananarivo), or because it was
important not to attempt to take the place of existing services.
This technical assistance was launched in 1985 and is scheduled to come to an end in 1991,
i.e. the original date for project completion.
Specialists in several areas were mobilized: Administrator, Civil Engineer, Municipal
Engineers, Financiers (public finance), Architects, Urban Planners, Economists, Expert Mechanics,
Tax Specialist, Industrial Engineers, experts specializing in the production of wooden, metal and
earthenware products.
g.    Financial management and gublic contracts and disbursement mechanisms
i - The PMU gained valuable experience from the management and mobilization of the IDA
credit, and from working with local counterpart staff from different backgrounds (Treasury
Department and Ministry of Public Works).



- 22 -
A special effort was made to speed up the mobilization of funds, their deposit in
special accounts, cash flow management, and the monitoring of payments in the currencies
requested by the payees. It will be noted that the matter conceming the payment of taxes
by the people of Fivondronana was settled by the signing of an agreement to deferred
payment between the Treasury Department and the Municipalities. In the practical case of
disbursement procedures, the work was made somewhat harder, however, by the need to have
the payees systematically produce an "attestation de destination" (certificate of purpose) to
prove that the undertaken activities undertaken were part of the project.
The most significant difficulties encountered concerned the management of the special
foreign currency account, due to the weak information system on the real time monitoring
of this account.
A special account called a "first generation" account, opened at the Banque Central
Malgache (BCRM) was used at the start of the project for some of the financing of certain
project operations.  This special account was subsequently converted into a "second
generation" account at a primary bank in Paris.
The PMU had some difficulties in monitoring the movement of this account (delay
in the transmission of account statements, which systematically affected the speed of
disbursements and the replenishment of the special account).
In addition, the administrative channels typical of this type of multisectoral project,
using several executing agencies, are particularly complex but essential nonetheless. For
example, an invoice (bill) is first checked by the appointed works supervisor, then passed on
to the contracting authority for preparation of the disbursement file and recording in the
accounting documents of the executing agency. It is then submitted to the PMU to be
certified and entered into the accounts and then sent to the Treasury Department for
forwarding, together with a payment order, to BCRM. At this point in the routing, BCRM
contacts the primary bank of the interested party to arrange for the latter's account to be
credited (Government counterpart payment) or notifies the foreign bank to cover the
expenditure in foreign exchange from the special account.
In the case of payments by direct drawdown, the Treasury Department directly
forwards a request for payment to the World Bank.
ii - The management of contracts for supplies and services has always required a special
procedure.
The requirement to strictly respect the hierarchical structure of the supervisory
Ministry (despite the absence of the PMU in the organization chart of the Ministry of Public
Works), the multiplicity of supervisory and consultative services and authorities, decision-
making authorities at both the national level and the individual donor level (a priori financial
supervision, Commission Centrale des March&s, IDA Departments, the Treasury Department,
the External Finance Service, the contracting authorities, etc.) is indicative of the obligations
involved and also the unwieldiness and complexity of procedures.



- 23 -
The problems usually encountered have made it particularly difficult to obtain a
consensus of opinion among the various agencies and services referred to above.
The consequences always impact on the time it takes to start up the subprogram
under consideration and on the overall period of execution. Sometimes it takes so long that
price revisions are needed, which inevitably have a detrimental effect on appropriations
earmarked, particularly where local counterpart funds are concerned.
4. SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES FROM MID-1991 ONWARDS
Everyone is aware of what took place in Madagascar, starting in mid-1991, when the
so-called transitional regime came into being, which then gave way, in October 1991, to the regime
which was to last until August 1993, following various elections, and which led to the establishment
of the new institutions of the Third Republic: new constitution, election of the President of the
Republic, the election of Deputies, elections for Prime Minister and the birth of the first Government
of the Third Republic.
During the transitional regime the First Urban Development project of Madagascar was
placed under the authority of a Consultant appointed to the Directorate of Coordination of Urban
Operations (replacing the Bureau des Projets Urbains [sic] - BPU), itself a part of the new Ministry of
Urban Development and Tourism. This Ministry has authority over the former DAUH (Directorate
of Architecture, Urban Planning and Housing) of the Ministry of Public Works, the Antananarivo Plain
Development Project, the Directorate of Tourism and hence the former PMU (BPU).
All this occurred following a redeployment in 1991 of the balance remaining from
Credit 1497-MAG, which included both:
-     the continuation of the activities of the First Urban Development Project of
Madagascar, and
-     the preparation of the Second Urban Development of Madagascar.
The 1993 budget, prepared by the Borrower in 1992, included provisions for the
continuation of these two types of activities.
So it was that, following the agreement of Specialist Missions, the portion available
for reallocation to the repair of certain roads in Tananarive was well and truly earmarked for this
purpose. In view of the favorable outcome of the bidding invitation, it would then have been possible
to use some of this earmarked amount to extend the repairs to other roads, but this did not receive
the Donor's approval.
It was during the same year also, i.e. 1992, that the Second Urban Development
Project was prepared, i.e. the preparation and issuing of the bidding invitation, the short-listing of
bidders, the award of the contract, in an effort to ensure that the feasibility studies could be finalized
as much as possible before the end of 1993, while it known all the time that these studies were going
to take 12 months (two 6-month phases).



- 24 -
And all this despite the general circumstances prevailing in the country, which could
hardly be described as conducive to the smooth progress of any project.
But the World Bank's decision to close Credit 1497-MAG on December 31, 1993, with
the exception of certain components linked to the completion of Employment Unit No. 3, has now
completely placed under a cloud of uncertainty the prospects eyed in 1992 of using the balance
remaining from the Credit.
With respect to the preparation of the Second Urban Development Project, the
actions taken in 1992 were jeopardized by the impossibility of mobilizing the balance remaining from
Credit 1497-MAG, following its closure at the end of 1992. This has resulted in the revision of the
Terms of Reference, even though, after a joint supervision mission in January 1993 by the World
Bank and the Caisse Frangaise de Ddveloppement (CFD), it proved possible to establish a contract
agreement in February 1993 as part of a US$750,000 PPF prefinancing arrangement. This was
subsequently reduced to US$300,000, which led to a second revision of the Terms of Reference.
While it is true that these two Urban Development Projects are quite distinct, we
would simply point out that it took two years (from June 1991 to June 1993) to identify the Second
Urban Development Project, invite bids and select the consulting firm before the feasibility studies
could even be really started.
T'he Borrower hopes that the Second Urban Development Project will not suffer from
the same extremely long preparation delays as the first one.
With respect to the implementation of the first project, however, the period running
from mid-1991 until the closing of the Credit at the end of 1992 should be regarded as quite separate
from the preceding period from the start of the project.
As mentioned earlier, given the fact that the country's circumstances are in a state of
flux, it has not even been possible to maintain the gains made earlier, such as the progress achieved
by the Fivondronana of Toamasina in terms of the rehabilitation of local finances and recognized by
previous supervision missions.
The project did prove, however, that such progress and rehabilitation were feasible,
thanks to the determined efforts displayed by the authorities of the city of Toamasina before the end
of 1991.
With reference to the period prior to mid 1991, the first point to mention is, as always,
the inadequate disbursements, which resulted in there being an unused balance, which had to be
redeployed in 1991. During this period, the World Bank's decisions on the undertaking of physical
rehabilitation activities were always subject to proof that improvements had been made in the area
of local finances and particularly in the city of Antananarivo.
This translated into delays in bidding procedures and the downsizing of the technical
work (elimination of the sewerage system in Anatihazo-Isotry). At the purely technical level this
actually resulted in the communities being prompted to use the only storm water drainage system built
for the disposal of household waste water and sewage, which was contrary to what had been planned
in the feasibility study and hardly acceptable in technical terms.



- 25 -
In financial terms, the delays in the bidding procedures canceled out any savings that
might have been expected from the downsizing of the technical work because of increased costs.
It would have been preferable to have first carried out all the technical work, which
would have brought about improvements in:
the service and size of the systems accessible to the people;
the cost of the works.
This would have had a much greater impact on the health status of the rehabilitated
neighborhoods and their residents, which is, after all, the main objective of a project of this type.
The savings in time thus achieved would also have provided more opportunity to give
the people a greater understanding of the cost recovery measures adopted. It might have also
significantly reduced the unused balance as at the closing date of the project.
On the other hand, another point to be made is the fact that the final cost of the
Technical Assistance component proved much higher than originally estimated. The thing is that the
World Bank has always shown great latitude where this component is concerned, unlike its approach
to the rehabilitation works component. The Borrower would have preferred the contrary to have
been the case, since the portion of the credit used would have thus amounted to a greater
achievement in concrete, perceptible terms, and would have consequently been better accepted by
the people.



- 26 -
PART THREE: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.         Related IDA credits
Credit               Purpose                 Approval  Status
Credit 1002-MAG:     To improve water and     04/01/80  Closed on
Antananarivo Water    sanitation in                     06/30/86
and Sanitation       Antananarivo
Project
Credit 2117-MAG      To protect suburbs of    03/29/90  On-going
Antananarivo Plain    Antananarivo against
Development Project   flooding and
rehabilitate drainage
and sewerage systems
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __--- - -
Credit 1526-1-MAG    To rehabilitate and    08/05/86   Closed on
Cyclone Project II   repair infrastructure             06/30/89
damaged by Cyclone
Honorinina in Toamasina
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------_
2.         ProJect timetable
Planned date    Revised date      Actual date
Identification                                             09/77-11/78
Preparation                                                04/79-02/82
Pre-appraisal                                              02/82-12/82
Appraisal                   06/83                             06/83
Negotiations               01/09/84                          04/16/84
Board approval             03/13/84                          06/12/84
Credit signature                                             07/03/84
Credit effectiveness       10/03/84                          02/22/85
Credit closing             12/31/91                          06/30/93
Project completion         06/30/90                          06/30/93



- 27 -
3.    Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millions of dollars)
WB Fiscal Year        SAR Estimates       Actual      % Disbursed        Africa
and Quarter                                                              Profile
1985
Sept. 30, 1984
Dec.  31, 1984             0.70
March 31, 1985             0.95            0.62            4.80
June  30, 1985             1.20            0.70            5.40            0.77
1986
Sept. 30, 1985             1.54            0.70            5.40             1.03
Dec.  31, 1985             1.89            0.74            5.78            1.28
March 31, 1986             2.24            1.31           10.23            1.53
June  30, 1986             2.59            1.52           11.87            1.79
1987
Sept. 30, 1986             3.17            1.62           12.65            2.04
Dec.  31, 1986             3.76            1.68           13.12            2.30
March 31, 1987             4.40            1.94           15.15            2.81
June  30, 1987             5.04            2.57           20.07            3.32
1988
Sept. 30, 1987             5.70            2.82           22.03            3.83
Dec.  31, 1987             6.36            3.14           24.53            4.35
March 31, 1988             6.99            3.89           30.39            5.11
June  30, 1988             7.62            4.68           36.56            5.88
1989
Sept. 30, 1988             8.20            5.36           41.87            6.39
Dec.  31, 1988             8.79            5.93           46.32            6.91
March 31, 1989             9.31            6.76           52.81            7.67
June  30, 1989             9.84            8.31           64.92            8.44
1990
Sept. 30, 1989            10.28            8.43           65.80            8.95
Dec.  31, 1989            10.73            9.40           73.43            9.47
March 31, 1990            11.09            9.46           73.90            9.98
June  30, 1990            11.45            9.66           75.46           10.49
1991
Sept. 30, 1990            11.73            9.88           77.18           11.00
Dec.  31, 1990            12.02            9.90           77.34           11.52
March 31, 1991            12.22           10.65           83.20           12.03
June  30, 1991            12.43           11.23           87.73           12.54



- 28 -
1992
Sept.  30,  1991                  12.61               11.23                 87.73              12.67
Dec.   31,  1991                  12.80               11.47                 89.60              12.80
March  31,  1992                                      11.47                  89.60
June   30,  1992                                      11.51                  89.92
1993
Sept.  30, 1992                                       11.92                  93.12
Dec.   31,  1992                                      12.68                  99.06
March  31,  1993                                      12.97                101.30
June   30,  1993                                      12.98                101.40
1994
Sept. 30, 1993
us s Minin                        Apprisa                Actual                  Africa Profile
14    --   -  --                
12    -
10                                                                                                 .  .......
8 
2
1          5           9           1 3         17          21          25           29          33 Quarten
1985       1986         1987       1988         1989        1990        1991        1992         1993



- 29 -
4. Project Implementation
----------------------                 A:      IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEARS    1984! 1985   1986! 1987   1988   1989   1990! 1991 ! 1992 !1993 !LEGEND:
A.ANTANKNARIVO                                                                                                     ! !  !  !  !  lAppraisal
--------------1. ISOTRY             !       !      !       !       !       !       !       !Estimate
Market             --  ...... -                                                                     Preparation
!     ! , ,,, I,,,,tttt   !        !*.     !       !       !      !
Roads, Drainage  !..           .       -       -       -.........                                  ! !  !  1 Construction
Water Supply         ...         --- .....     ! -                                  
!.. !  !  !  !  !,,,,,,!tttttt!  !  !  Actual
Public Lighting      ...         --! --- ....                                                      ! !  !  ! Preparation
!                   !  !                        *,,,,,!,,,,,!tttt,t  !     !    !
Housing Loans       !       !       !      ---- --------!                                          !Construction
2. TRAFFIC          !       !
Isotry Center        ! !     .----!      !  !  !  !  !  ! !
!      !,,,,,,*,,,,,,r*,t*it           !       !,,,t!tt        !       !
Five Intersections!   ! .----!---
B. TOAlASINA                        !       !      !       !       !       !       !       !       !       !
------------  Roads and Drainage!         . . .    ------------                                     
!    ,,,,,,I, *u**!**..*.I*...*.I          !       !       !       ! 
Water Supply        !............   -     !           ! 
Public Lighting    .------                                   ..........             
!    ,,,,,,I,,,,,,I,,,,,ttItttttt!t        !       !       !       !1
Ankirihiry Health  ...... --- !               !  !                                   
Center              !       I,,,,,,I,,,,,,I,,,,,,l,,,.I*           I !        !      !
C. EMPLOYMENT PRODUCTION UNITS  !           !      !       !       !       !       !       !       !       !
------------------------------!             !      !       !       !       !       !       !       !       !       !
Civil Works  !.-!--- !               ! ! !  ! !
Equipsent           !       !      ---!--------- ---!--------- !             !      ! !
!      I       I       I       I-- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - --I------I---  !--- -



- 30 -
4.                B:   SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
OFFICE/SPECIALTY                                  MANMONTHS
PLANNED IN SAR        ACTUAL PROVIDED
ANTANANARIVO MUNICIPALITY
Municipal Finance Advisor             15                 38
Fiscal Advisor                        0                   4
Municipal Engineer                    30                 33
Maintenance Engineer                  42                 30
TOAMASINA WUNICIPALITY
Municipal Finance Advisor             15                 23
Municipal Engineer                    0                  15
Maintenance Engineer                  42                 42
SEIMAD
Roads and Drainage Engineer           42                 45
CENAM (Employment Component)
Industrial Engineer                   42                 42
Wood, bricks and steel Engineers    6                    15
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Management Specialist (Advisor)       45                 41
Transport Engineer                    30                 21
Evaluation                            0                   4
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  309                353
Increase in technical assistance (based on manmonths)         15 %



- 31 -
5.Prolect Costs and Financing
A.                      Prolect Costs
(US$ thousands)
Component                SAR Estimate       Actual (IDA)       Actual Total
Municipal Finances       1,425              1,703              2,040
Municipal Techn.Serv.   4,792               4,309              5,161
Antananarivo
Isotry Upgrading         2,478              1,488              2,116
Toamasina Upgrading      2,590                745              1,059
Employment generation   1,813               1,143              1,625
Traffic Management         777                994              1,413
including 9 km streets
Housing loans              500                 82                109
Project Management       2,978              2,339              2,959
and Studies
Design and Supervision    647                 178                225
TOTAL:      18,000              12,981             16,707
Government Contribution: US$ 3,725,400
z=u  -  U WU  U  U 



- 32 -
5 B.                               STIDIES
STUDY                   Cost in Fig              YER           lEchange Rate          Cost inS S
Final Design PMUt          32,826,285            1984                 400.00             82,065.71
Audit of SEIMAD            76,517,300            1984                 450.00            170,038.44
ludit of Credit 1497/EPG   41,604,700            1986                 680.00             61,183.38
Toaasina Vater Supply       9,663,750            1987                 790.00             12,232.59
Toansilna Vater Supply    249,540,156            1989               1,600.00            155,962.60
Land Legislation Stndy    129,895,600            1987               1,350.00             96,218.96
ludit of Credit 1497/NAG    3,736,177            1988               1,280.00              2,918.89
Nahsjaug  Irbau Study       2,426,668            1988               1,275.00              1,903.27
ludit of Credit 1497/NAG   26,026,000            1919               1,600.00             16,266.25
lAdit of Credit 1497/NAG   26,026,000            1990               1,530.00             17,010.46
lEcomoic Study             39,136,000            1990               1,500.00             26,090.67
Audit of Credit 1497/NIG   61,259,000            1991               2,000.00             30,629.50
Adit of Credit 1497/1AG   64,549,000             1992               2,000.00             32,274.50
lAdit of Credit 1497/NG  129,098,000             1993               2,000.00             64,549.00
Irbau II Study            257,869,106            1992               1,800.00            143,260.61
TOTU:   1,150,173,742                                                       912,605
5 C.                     TECUICAL ASSISTANCE
Cost is FIg             YE1           lichauge Rate          Cost ID IS 
PDIi               1,988,389,180            1985                575.00           3,458,068.14
SEIIAD                340,951,605            1986                750.00             454,602.14
51IWD                  35,763,261            1984                400.00              89,408.15
F?Dl                 350,000,000            1992              1,800.00             194,444.44
BPI                   5,000,000            1918               1,260.00              3,968.25
BPi                 147,640,569            1985                500.00             295,281.14
BPI                  21,450,000            1992              1,900.00              11,289.47
Irba  II               28,993,074            1991              1,1870.00             15,504.32
TOTAL:  2,918,187,689                                                     4,522,566
9STUDIE  AND T.A.       4,068,361,431                                                    5,435,171
::::::::::;:     :::::::::::::::::::::



- 33 -
5                    D: Credit Allocation by Category
(in SDR)
Category            Estimate                Actual                  Balance
1. Civil Works
(a)                 1,320,000            1,011,998.49               308,001.51
(b)                    90,000               68,473.13                21,526.87
(c)                 1,220,000              515,239.37               704,760.63
(d)                    90,000               42,532.03                47,467.97
(e)                   140,000              693,982.17              (553,982.17)
(f)                    90,000                     0.00               90,000.00
(g)                    90,000              116,183.36               (26,183.36)
(h)                    45,000               99,166.50               (54,166.50)
(i)                    45,000               42,047.27                 2,952.73
Total 1:            3,130,000            2,589,622.32               540,377.68
2. Equipment, saterials and vehicles
(a)                 1,500,000              503,021.64               996,978.36
(b)                   560,000              751,341.11              (191,341.11)
(c)                   190,000              223,936.55               (33,936.55)
(d)                    90,000               93,079.49                (3,079.49)
(e)                    90,000              216,087.19              (126,087.19)
(f)                    90,000              208,441.61              (118,441.61)

Total 2:            2,520,000             1,995,907.59              524,092.41
3. Services Part F.4
(a)                    25,000                     0.00               25,000.00
(b)                    25,000                     0.00               25,000.00
Total 3:               50,000                     0.00               50,000.00
4. Consultants and Training 2,580,000              4,253,153.66            (1,673,153.66)
5. Operating Costs
(a)                   470,000              178,575.06               291,424.94
(b)                   140,000               74,384.10                65,615.90
(c)                    50,000               30,575.58                19,424.42
(d)                   140,000              440,043.82              (300,043.82)
Total 5:              800,000               723,578.56                76,421.44
6. lousing Loans                470,000               57,766.76               412,233.24
7. Initial Deposit              470,000              305,672.14               164,327.86
8. Refulding of PPF             230,000              170,228.72                59,771.28
9. onallocated                1,850,000                     0.00            1,850,000.00
General Total:    12,100,000            10,095,929.75             2,004,070.25



- 34 -
6.   Project Results
A.  DMELOPMENT OBJECTIVES. Key Indicators
CO-PO. IT                       OBJECTIVE                  !ACTUAL!             COMhENTS
-- - - - - -- --- - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -     ----  ---- -!-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -
Municipal Revenue  !Frequent updating of tax levels          100% !Done in 1990
Generation in       !Government transfers enhancement    100% !Multiplied by 2 from 1984 to 1992
Autananarivo and   Hmprove tax collection                  !  30% Hs still the main problem
Toamasina            !Strengthening financial management!  30% !Slight improvement at the end
-------------------!----------------------------------!------!-----------------------------------------
Municipal technical!Strengthening technical services  !  20% !Some improvement in Toamasina
Services            ITraining                              !  50% IBetter in Toaaasina
-------------------!----------------------------------!------!-----------------------------------------
Rehabilitation      Himprove streets, drainage, water  !  80% !Done, except sewerage
Isotry              !supply, sewerage and solid waste
!Cost recovery froa beneficiaries  !   0% !LDone from the whole city
Toamasina            !Streets, water, drainage, sol. was! 100% !
!Cost recovery fros beneficiaries  !  80% !Surcharge replaced by a rent
-------------------!----------------------------------!------!-----------------------------------------
REployment          !Creation of three cooperatives to !  90% llnstead of cooperatives, three private
Iproduce building saterials                  ! lenterprises for wood, metal and tiles
-------------------!----------------------------------!---- -----------------------------------------
Traffic Managesent !Improve five intersections             ! 100% !
in Aiutaaanarivo    llsotry Center isprovement               100% 1
!Creation of a Traffic Bureau         !    0% !Created fros 1986 to 1989 only
!Prepare a traffic master plan        ! 100% !But no follow up of this action
-------------------!----------------------------------!------!----------------------------------------
SBIKID              !Management of housing loans           !   5% !SEIMAD was not the right institution
-----------------------------------------------------!---- -----------------------------------------
Project Kanagement !Coordination of the Project            ! 100% !BPU has functioned very well
and Studies          !Consolidated Project accounts        ! 100% !
!Audit reports                        !  90% !Not always submitted on time
!Carrying out studies                 ! 100% !Other studies were also carried out
!Creation of FIRU                       100%  !
!Procurement                          ! 100% !Problems were caused by the Bank
-------------------!----------------------------------!------!-----------------------------------------



- 35 -
6. B.         Municipal Financial results
MUVICIPALITY OF ANTANANARIVO-INCONE    (FMg uillious)
1984  !   1985  !   1986  !   1987  !   1988  !   1989  !   1990  !   1991  !   1992
!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!--------!----------
Eschange Rate US$/FMg   ! 400.00 !  500.00 !  679.00 !1,070.00 !1,405.00 !1,604.00 !1,495.00 !1,710.00   1,905.00 !
CPI                            1.00!    1.11!    1.25!    1.58!    1.94!    2.18!    2.56!    2.96!                   3.37!
I         I          I          I         I          I          I          I         I           I
I.Direct Taxes: Apprais.!  747.00 ! 930.00 !1,120.00 !1,265.00 !1,345.00 !1,410.00 !1,470.00 !1,550.00   1,650.00!
Actual    !  771.35 !  540.06 !  634.58 !  468.71 !  995.75 !1,115.82 !1,945.73 !2,409.00 !5,421.00!
Actual/CPI!  771.35 !  486.98 !  506.38 !  296.37 !  513.14 !  511.58 ! 761.16 !  815.21   1,606.38 !
2.Indirect Taxes: Appr. !  530.00 !  515.00 ! 515.00 !  400.00 !  400.00 !  400.00 ! 400.00 !  400.00 !   400.00
Actual    !   68.54 !  106.41 !  114.26 !  128.19 !  136.34 !   93.42 !   96.24 !  221.50 !   221.50 !
Actual/CPI!   68.54 !   95.95 !   91.18 !   81.06 1   70.26 !   42.83 !   37.65           74.96 !    65.64 !
3.Incoue frou Property  !           !          !          !         !          !          !
and Services: Appraisal 1 226.00 !  252.00 !  284.00 1 324.00 !  364.00 !  364.00 !  364.00 !  364.00 !   364.00 !
Actual    !  330.99 !  291.25 1  315.49 1  332.65 1 404.56 ! 412.27 !  477.41 !1,625.99   1,649.46!
Actual/CPI!  330.99 !  262.62 !  251.75 !  210.34 !  208.48 !  189.02 1  186.76 !  550.24 !   488.78 !
4.Other Receipts: Appr. !   30.00 !   30.00 !   30.00 !   30.00 !   30.00 !   30.00 !   30.00 !   30.00 !    30.00 !
Actual    !   55.09 !   43.85 !   20.30 !   36.84 !   31.93 !   22.54 !   55.10 !   35.00             75.67 1
Actual/CPI!   55.09 !   39.54 !   16.20!   23.29 !   16.45 !   10.33 !   21.55!   11.84 !    22.42 !
I         I          I          I         I          I          I          I         I           I
5.Governient Grants:Appr!  500.00 !  500.00 !  500.00 !  500.00 !  500.00 !  500.00 !  500.00 1  500.00 !   500.00 !
Actual    !  570.17 ! 600.68 !  773.72 !1,730.34 !2,104.35 !2,537.76 !2,832.27 !3,570.00 13,570.00 !
Actual/CPI!  570.17 !  541.64 1  617.41 !1,094.11 !1,084.44 !1,163.51 !1,107.97 !1,208.10   1,057.88 1
6.Surtaxe: Appraisal    !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !   25.83 !   38.74 !   46.49 !   46.49 1    46.49 !
Actual    !    0.00!    0.00 !    0.00          0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00!    0.00 !    0.00 !          0.00!
!------------------!---------1------------------ --------- --------- --------- i----------
SUB-TOTAL: Appraisal    !2,033.00 !2,227.00 !2,449.00 !2,519.00 !2,664.83 !2,742.74 !2,810.49 !2,890.49 ! 2,990.49 !
Actual    !1,796.15 !1,582.28 !1,858.37 !2,696.73 !3,672.92 !4,181.81 !5,406.75 !7,861.49 !10,937.63 1
Actual/CPI!1,796.15 !1,426.76 !1,482.94 !1,705.17 !1,892.77 !1,917.27 !2,115.09 !2,660.35 13,241.09 !
7.Other Receipts/loans  !           !          !          !         !          !          !          !         !
Appraisal !  619.05 ! 713.94 ! 436.79 !  312.14 !  139.42 1   38.54!    0.00 !    0.00                 0.00!
Actual    !  138.51 !   24.32       8 88.82 ! 287.78 !  286.59 1  141.21 !   25.22 !1,438.65 !   585.65 !
Actual/CPI!  138.51 !   21.93 !   70.88 !  181.97 !  147.69 1   64.74 1    9.87 1  486.84 !   173.54 !
!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!----------!
TOTAL INCOKH: Appraisal !2,652.05 !2,940.94 !2,885.79 !2,831.14 !2,804.25 !2,781.28 !2,810.49 !2,890.49 ! 2,990.49!
Actual    !1,934.66 !1,606.60 !1,947.19 !2,984.51 13,959.51 !4,323.02 !5,431.97 !9,300.14 !11,523.28 1
Actual/CPI!1,934.66 !1,448.69 !1,553.81 !1,887.14 !2,040.46 !1,982.02 !2,124.95 !3,147.20 13,414.64 !
Asocuts to be recovered:!           !          !          !         !          1          !          !         !           !
Actual    !  109.05 i  110.88 !  261.02 !  312.12 !  372.94 !  407.08 !  487.31 !2,426.50 !3,174.65 1
Actual/CPI!  109.05 !   99.98 !  208.29 !  197.36 !  192.19 !  186.64 1 190.63 1 821.14 !   940.73 !
!-------!-------!------!-------!-------!------!-------!-----------------!
REVISID INCOMH           !          !          !          !         !          !          !          !         !
Appraisal !2,652.05 !2,940.94 !2,885.79 !2,831.14 !2,804.25 !2,781.28 !2,810.49 !2,890.49 12,990.49 1
Actual    !2,043.71 !1,717.48 !2,208.21 !3,296.63 !4,332.45 !4,730.10 !5,919.28 !9,300.14 !11,523.28 !
Actual/CPI!2,043.71 !1,548.67 !1,762.10 12,084.50 !2,232.64 !2,168.65 !2,315.59 13,147.20 ! 3,414.64!



- 36 -
MUNICIPALITY OF ANTANANARIVO-EIPENSES (FMq sillions)
!   1984  !   1985  !   1986  !   1987  !   1988  !   1989  !   1990  !   1991  !   1992   !
!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!
Exchange Rate US$/FMq   !  400.00 ! 500.00 !  679.00 !1,070.00 !1,405.00 !1,604.00 !1,495.00 !1,710.00 !1,905.00 !
CPI                      !    1.00!    1.11         1.25!    1.58!    1.94!    2.18!    2.56!    2.96!                3.37!
1. Services   Appraisal !1,769.00 !1,887.00 !1,869.00 !1,850.00 !1,833.00 !1,816.00 !1,800.00 !1,783.00 11,768.00 !
Actual    !1,516.05 !1,295.99 !1,605.97 !2,144.98 !2,982.24 !3,420.27 !4,545.57 !6,070.10 17,359.03 !
Actual/CPI!1,516.05 !1,168.61 !1,281.53 !1,356.29 !1,536.84 !1,568.12 !1,778.20 !2,054.14 !2,180.66!
2.Grants & other   Appr.!  113.00 !  113.00 !  113.00 !  113.00 !  113.00 !  113.00 !  113.00 !  113.00 !   113.00
Actual    ! 171.44 !  128.73 !  145.08 !  197.77 1  259.69 !  436.08 !  139.92 !  301.37 !   517.50 1
Actual/CPI!  171.44 !  116.08 !  115.77 !  125.05 !  133.83 !  199.93 !   54.74 !  101.98 !   153.35 !
3.Investments Appraisal !  712.05 ! 806.94 !  529.79 !  405.14 !  232.42 !  131.54 !   93.00 !   93.00 !    93.00 !
Actual    !  108.66 !  169.63 !   64.97 !  140.41 !  504.39 !  429.45 !  726.80    8 876.77 !   746.10 !
Actual/CPI!  108.66 !  152.96 !   51.84 !   88.78 !  259.93 !  196.89 !  284.32 !  296.70 !   221.09 !
4.Loan Repaysents  Appr.!    0.00 !    0.00 !  160.60 ! 241.19 !  304.18 !  368.00 !  415.45 !  283.04 !   199.13 !
Actual    !   34.58 !    4.40 !   20.55 !   27.16!    8.071    14.02 !    6.96 !  613.25   2,315.00!
Actual/CPI!   34.58 !    3.97 !   16.40 !   17.17 !    4.16 !    6.43 !    2.72 !  207.53 !   685.99 !
5. Non Current Appraisal!    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !             0.00 !
Actual    !   82.97 !    1.18 !   81.16 !  217.83 !   63.96 !    0.00 !    0.00 !1,438.65 !   585.65 !
Actual/CPI!   82.97 !    1.06 !   64.76 !  137.74 !   32.96 !    0.00 !    0.00 !  486.84 !   173.54 !
TOTAL EXPENSES Appraisal!2,594.05 !2,806.94 !2,672.39 !2,609.33 !2,482.60 !2,428.54 !2,421.45 !2,272.04 12,173.13!
Actual    !1,913.70 !1,599.93 !1,917.73 !2,728.15 !3,818.35 !4,299.82 !5,419.25 !9,300.14 !11,523.28 !
Actual/CPI!1,913.70 !1,442.68 !1,530.30 !1,725.04 !1,967.71 !1,971.38 !2,119.98 !3,147.20 13,414.64!
Not paid      Actual    !   91.29 !  812.03 !  636.80 ! 434.96 !  451.46 !  436.85 !  102.84 !    0.00 !              0.00 !
(JIRAMA)      Actual/CPI!   91.29 !  732.22 !  508.15 !  275.03 ! 232.65 !  200.29 !   40.23 !    0.00 1             0.00 !
REVISED E7PBNSES         !          !          !          !         !          !          !
Appraisal !2,594.05 !2,806.94 !2,672.39 !2,609.33 !2,482.60 !2,428.54 !2,421.45 !2,272.04 12,173.13!
Actual    !2,004.99 !2,411.96 !2,554.53 !3,163.11 !4,269.81 !4,736.67 !5,522.09 !9,300.14 !11,523.28 !
Actual/CPI!2,004.99 !2,174.90 !2,038.45 !2,000.07 !2,200.36 !2,171.67 !2,160.21 13,147.20 13,414.64!
BALANCE       Appraisal !   58.00 !  134.00 !  213.40 ! 221.81 !  321.65 !  352.74 ! 389.04 !  618.45 !   817.36 !
Actual    !   20.96 !    6.67 !   29.46 ! 256.36 !  141.16 !   23.20 !   12.72 !   (0.00)!    (0.00)!
Actual/CPI!   20.96!    6.01 !   23.51 !  162.10 !   72.74 !   10.64 !    4.98 !    0.00 !    (0.00)!
REVISED BALANCE, taking account of amounts to be paid and to be recovered:
Appraisal !   58.00 !  134.00 !  213.40 ! 221.81 1  321.65 !  352.74 !  389.04 !  618.45 !   817.36 !
Actual    !   38.72 !(694.48)! (346.32)!  133.52 !   62.64 !   (6.57)!  397.19 !   (0.00)!             0.00 !
Actual/CPI!   38.72 ! (626.22)! (276.36)!   84.43 !   32.28 !   (3.01)!  155.38 !   (0.00)!            0.00 !



- 37 -
MUNICIPALITY OF TOANASINA-INCOME         (Fig millions)
!   1984      1985  !   1986  !   1987       1988       1989  !   1990  !   1991  !  1992    !
!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!----------!
EIchange Rate US$/TEg   ! 400.00 ! 500.00 ! 679.00 !1,070.00 !1,405.00 !1,604.00 !1,495.00 11,710.00 ! 1,905.00 !
CPI                      !    1.00!    1.11!    1.25!    1.58!    1.94!    2.18!    2.56!    2.96!                 3.37!
I.Direct Taxes: Apprais.!   82.53 !  138.85 ! 132.53 ! 125.74 ! 117.03 ! 121.05 ! 126.15 1 131.00 !    136.04 !
Actual    ! 129.50!  134.13 ! 176.30 ! 208.53 ! 349.18!  313.79 1 472.41 ! 392.46!    378.11 !
Actual/CPI!  129.50 !  120.95 ! 140.68 ! 131.86 ! 179.94 ! 143.87 ! 184.80 ! 132.81 !    112.04 !
2.1ndirect Taxes: Appr. !  76.00 !  86.00 !  96.00 !  96.00 !  96.00 !  96.00 !  96.00 !  96.00 !                 96.00 !
Actual    !   51.20 1  51.92 !   76.68 !  71.35 !  74.42 ! 143.54 !  86.98 ! 213.49 !               75.83 !
kctual/CPI!   51.20 !   46.82 !  61.19 !  45.12 !   38.35 !   65.81 !  34.03 !   72.25 !            22.47 !
3.Mucome from Property  !          !          !         !         !          !         !          !         !
and Services: Appraisal 1  60.20 !  78.20 !  78.20 !   78.20 !  78.20 !  78.20 !   78.20 !   78.20 !              78.20 !
Actual    !   61.90 !   78.84 !  83.95 !  129.08 ! 214.25 ! 268.45!  301.83 !  164.81 !    153.71 !
Actual/CPI!   61.90 !  71.09 !   66.99 !   81.62 ! 110.41 !  123.08 1 118.07 !   55.77 !            45.55 !
4.Other Receipts: Appr. !    0.00 1    0.00 !    0.00 !   0.00 !   0.00 !   0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !             0.00 !
Actual    !    3.40!    2.48!    1.73!    3.23!   10.80!    9.83!   20.86!   21.18!                 16.14 !
Actual/CPI!    3.40 !    2.24 !    1.38 !    2.04 !   5.57 !   4.51 !    8.16 !    7.17!             4.78 !
5.Government Grants:Appr!   94.00 !  94.00 !   94.00 !  94.00 !  94.00 !  94.00 !  94.00 !   94.00 !              94.00 !
Actual    !  102.90 ! 200.99 ! 139.93 ! 325.44!  400.39 ! 491.27 ! 549.26 ! 643.83 1    671.18 !
Actual/CPI!  102.90 ! 181.24 !  111.66 ! 205.78 ! 206.33 ! 225.24 ! 214.87 1  217.87 !    198.89 !
6.Surcharge:  Appraisal 1   0.00 !   0.00 !   22.13 !   33.20 !   39.83 !  39.83 1   39.83 !   39.83 !            39.83 !
Actual    !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !   0.00 !   0.00 !    0.00!    0.00 !   0.00 !              0.00 !
!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!-----------!
SIR-TOTAL: Appraisal    ! 312.73 ! 397.05 ! 422.86 ! 427.14 ! 425.06 ! 429.08 1 434.18 ! 439.03 !   444.07 !
Actual    ! 348.90 ! 468.36 ! 478.59 ! 737.63 !1,049.04 !1,226.88 !1,431.34 !1,435.77 ! 1,294.97 !
Actual/CPI!  348.90 ! 422.33 ! 381.90 ! 466.41 ! 540.60 ! 562.50 ! 559.93 1 485.87 !    383.73 !
7.Other Receipts/loans  !          !
Appraisal !  130.33 ! 382.80 ! 408.22 ! 319.55 !   21.49 !   19.17 !    0.00 1    0.00 !             0.00 !
Actual    !   10.50 !  98.49 ! 101.25 ! 149.83 ! 434.21 ! 679.26 ! 494.47 ! 562.43 !   527.48
Actual/CPI!   10.50 1   88.81 !  80.80 !  94.74 ! 223.76 1 311.43 ! 193.43 ! 190.33 1    156.31
!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!---------!-----------!
TOTAL INCONE: Appraisal ! 443.06 ! 779.85 ! 831.08 ! 746.69    4 446.55    4 448.25 ! 434.18 ! 439.03 !    444.07 1
Actual    ! 359.40!  566.85 ! 579.84 ! 887.46 !1,483.25 !1,906.14 !1,925.81 !1,998.20 ! 1,822.45
Actual/CPI!  359.40 ! 511.14 ! 462.70 1 561.15 ! 764.36 ! 873.93 ! 753.37 ! 676.20 !    540.04
Imounts to be recovered:!          !          1         !          !         !          !
Actual    !   0.00!  341.25!  365.65 ! 423.13 ! 619.37 ! 131.46 ! 150.89 ! 250.34 !   472.11 !
Actual/CPI!    0.00 1  307.71 ! 291.78 ! 267.55 1  319.18 !   60.27 !  59.03 !   51.06 !    139.90 !
!-------!-------!------!-------!-------!------!-------!------------------!
RIVISKD IICOnE           !         !          !         !          !         !         !          !         !
Appraisal ! 443.06 ! 779.85 ! 831.08 ! 746.69 ! 446.55 ! 448.25 ! 434.18 ! 439.03 !   444.07 !
Actual    1 359.40 ! 908.10 ! 945.49 !1,310.59 !2,102.62 !2,037.60 !2,076.70 !2,149.09 ! 2,294.56 !
Actual/CPI!  359.40 ! 818.85 ! 754.48 ! 828.70 !1,083.54 ! 934.20 ! 812.39 ! 727.26 !    679.94!
!---------------------------------- .-.  



- 38 -
MUNICIPILITY OF ?OIAlSINA-EIPENSES       (FNg millions)
1984  !   1985  !   1986  !   1987  !   1988  !   1989  !   1990  !   1991  !   1992
!-------!--------------!--------------!--------------!------------------!
bchcage Rate 18$/FKg   ! 400.00 ! 500.00 !  679.00 !1,070.00 !1,405.00 !1,604.00 !1,495.00 !1,710.00 !  1,905.00 !
Ctl                      !    1.00       1.11!    1.25!    1.58!    1.94!    2.18!    2.56!    2.96!                 3.37!
1. Services   Appraisal ! 229.84 ! 253.91 ! 277.98 !  277.98 !  277.98 ! 277.98 ! 277.98 ! 277.98 !    277.98
Actual 1    319.07 ! 376.85 ! 330.85 !  342.09 ! 612.84    7 180.66    7 177.61 !1,027.80 !    914.45
Actual/CPI!  319.07 !  339.81 ! 264.01 ! 216.31 !  315.82 !  357.92 !  304.20 ! 347.81 !    270.97 !
2.Grauts 6 other   Appr.!    2.82 !    2.82 !    2.82 !    2.82 !    2.82 !    2.82 !    2.82 !    2.82 !            2.82 !
Actual    !    8.81 !   13.95 !   15.72 !  123.93 !  106.92 !   77.60 !   97.30 !   21.60 !          33.14 !
Actual/CPI!    8.81 !   12.58!   12.54 !   78.36 !  55.10 !   35.58 !   38.06 !    7.31 !             9.82 !
3.Investuuts Appraisal !  169.01 !  421.48 ! 446.90 !  358.23 !   60.17 !   57.85 !   38.68 !   38.68 !             38.68 !
lctual    !   24.29 1   62.11 !   15.76!    3.50 !   59.65!  506.27 1  298.95 !   99.11 !            61.24!
Actual/CPI!   24.29 !   56.01 !   12.58 !    2.21 !   30.74 ! 232.11 !  116.95 !   33.54 !           18.15 !
4.Loau  lepayments  Appr.!    0.00 !    0.00 !   20.12 !   36.76 !  99.97 !  178.50 ! 206.56 !  186.44 !    169.80 !
Actual 1       0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !   25.00 !   51.38 !  314.54 !  364.90 !    363.40 !
Actual/CUI!    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !   12.88 !   23.56 !  123.05 !  123.48 !    107.68 !
5. lo  Curreat Appraisal!    0.00!    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00 !             0.00
Act ual    !    0.00!   61.36!   32.55!    0.00 !    1.79 !    0.00 !    0.00 !    0.00!               0.00 !
Ictual/CPI!    0.00 !   55.33 !   25.97 !    0.00 !    0.92 1    0.00 !   0.00 !    0.00 !             0.00 !
MT U  I    St   Appraisal!  401.67 !  678.21 !  747.82 !  675.79 ! 440.94 ! 517.15 !  526.04 !  505.92 !    489.28 !
Actual    ! 352.17 !  514.27 !  394.81   469.52 !  806.20 !1,415.91 !1,488.40 !1,513.41 !  1,372.23 !
Actual/Ctl!  352.17 ! 463.72 !  315.10 ! 296.88 ! 415.46 ! 649.17 ! 582.25 !  512.14 !    406.63
lot paild     Ictul 1         0.00 !   59.51 !   30.08 !   40.45 !   37.52 !   41.80 !   50.51 !    0.00 !          49.24 !
Actual/Ctl!    0.00 !   53.66 !   24.00 !   25.58 !   19.34 1   19.16 !   19.76 !    0.00 !          14.59 !
31uSD  KIPUSES                      '
Appraisal ! 401.67 ! 678.21 ! 747.82 ! 675.79 !  440.94 ! 517.15 ! 526.04 1  505.92 !    489.28 1
lctual    ! 352.17 ! 573.78 1   424.96 ! 509.97 ! 843.72 !1,457.71 !1,538.91 !1,513.41 !  1,421.47 !
Actual/CUI!  352.17 ! 517.39 !  339.11 !  322.46    434.79 !  668.33 ! 602.01 !  512.14 !    421.22 !
ALAUCI        lppraisal u    41.39 !  101.64 1   83.26 !   70.90 !    5.61 1  (68.90)!  (91.86)!  (66.89)!    (45.21)!
letual    !    7.23 !   52.58 !  184.96 ! 417.94 ! 677.05 ! 490.23 !  437.41 ! 484.79 !    450.22 !
Actaul/CtI!    7.23 !   47.41 !  147.59 ! 264.27 ! 348.90 !  224.76 ! 171.11 !  164.05 !    133.41 !
R17ISD tALAICI, takiag accout of amounts to be paid aid to be recovered:
lppraisal u   41.39 !  101.64 !   83.26 !   70.90 !    5.61 !  (68.90)!  (91.86)!  (66.89)!    (45.21)!
Actual    !    7.23 !  334.32 !  520.53 ! 800.62 !1,258.90 ! 579.89 ! 537.79 !  635.68 !    873.09 !
kctual/CPI!    7.23 ! 301.46 !  415.37 ! 506.24 !  648.75 ! 265.87 ! 210.38 !  215.12 !    258.72 !



- 39 -
6.            C.                        PROJECT STUDIES
Studies                         Purpose                       Status !      lmpact
-------------------------- ------------------------------!---------!------------------
!1. Final Design              !For Project works                 !Completed!  Good
!2. Land legislation Study !To improve taxation                  !Completed!  Good
!3. SEIMAD Reorganization  !To improve management                !Completed!  Good
4. FIHU Study                 !To establish FIHU                 !Completed!  Good
!5. Traffic Study             !To improve traffic in             !Completed!No foolow up
!Antananarivo                      !          !
I                             I                                        I               I
!6. BPU Study                 !To establish permanent            !Completed!Creation of DCOU
!urban coordination institution!              land CTNDU
!7. Audit Reports             !To control accounts of            !Completed!  Good
-!Project agencies
--------------------------!------------------------------!---------!------------------
!Studies not forecast at appraisal
!----------------------------                                   
I8. Toamasina Water Supply !To increase water production  ICompleted!No follow up
!9. Economic Study of         !To plan urbanization of           !Completed!  Good
A ntananarivo Region           lAntananarivo Plain               !
10. Reorganization Study  !To improve operations of              !Coopleted!No follow up
!    of Antananarivo          !technical services
!    technical services       !
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- 40 -
7.               Status of Covenants
!SBCTION!   DESCRIPTION                          !COMPLIANCE!       COMMENTS
!1. DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGRE M NT                                                                  !
!-------------------------------                 !
!2.02(c)!Special Account in Central Bank         !   Full   !Transferred to a commercial bank !
!3.02   !Qualification of Consultants                Full
!       !satisfactory to IDA
!3.03(a)!Project Account at Central Bank             Full
!3.03(b)!Balance of project Account of              almost  !Not systematically
!       lat least FHg 150 sillion
!3.04(b)!Presentation of quarterly reports   !   yes    !Until March 1992
I       I                                        I           I 
!3.06   llstablishment of Fill                   !   Full   !in Oct.1987 instead of Dec.1985
23.07(a)!Implementation Agreements between   !   Full   !
!       !BPU and executing agencies              !
!3.07(c)!Appointeent of BPU managers                 Full   !
!3.08   !SEIMAD Institutional Audit              !   Full   WOnly partially isplemented
!3.09   !Training program for BPU                    F Full
!4.01(a)!Cost accounting system for BPU          !   Full   !
I       II 
!4.01(c)!project Accounts Audit                  !   Full   !
!-      -      ------------------------------------------!---------------------------------
!B. PROJECT AGREEMENT WITE ANTANANARIVO MUNICIPALITY    !
!-------------------------------------------------------
!2.07   !Training program                        ! partial !Only training abroad completed
!3.02(a)!Non/replacement of retiring staff   !    No    !Not respected
!3.02(b)!Recruitment of municipal managers   !   Full   !
!3.03   !Real increases in municipal tazes   !   Full   !Particularly since 1989, but
!  !  !     !decreases in 1991 and 1992
!3.04   !Payment to JIRAMA within 3 months   !    No    !Ouly paid up to August 1990
!4.02   !Municipal accounts audited each FY  !    Yes   lAccounts not certified
--------------------------------------------!----------!---------------------------------



- 41 -
7.                         Status of Covenants
!SECTION!   DESCRIPTION                           !COMPLIANCE!        COMMENTS
!-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------!
!C. PROJECT AGREEMENT WITH TOAHASINA MUNICIPALITY
!------------------------------------------------              !!
!2.07   !Training prograt                         !   Full   !
!3.02   !reorganization of technical services!   Full
!3.03   !Real increases in municipal taxes   ! Partial   !Particularly since 1989, but
!  !  !     !decreases in 1992
!4.02   !Municipal Accounts audited each FY  !   Full    !Significant isprovements
!--------------------------------------------!----------!---------------------------------!
!D. PROJECT AGREEMENT WITH SEIMAD
!2.04   !SEIMAD obligations                       !    Yes   ! Except for housing loans
13.01   !Qualified sanagement and staff           !   Full   !Staff was reduced
!4.02   ISEIMAD Accounts audited each FY          !   Full   lAccounts have deteriorated
!--------------------------------------------!----------!---------------------------------!
!E. PROJECT AGREIMENT WITH CENAN
!-------------------------------!!!
!3.01   !Qualified lanagement and staff           !   Full   !
3.04   !Recruitment of Chief of                   !   Full   !
!        lEmployment Unit
4        I                         e                           W           i
14.02   !CENlh Accounts audited each FY           !   Full   !Ieanesses in maintaining accoants!
! I----------   -------=   --                                     -   -            --- - -



- 42-
8.                  A: Staff inputs (staff-veeks)
1978                                                                             1990      1992
to 1982      1983      1984      1985      1986       1987      1988      1989      1991      1993
LOP            1.5       0.5        6.5                 0.1       0.1
LIN?         108.9      38.2
LBNA                    15.5      24.1
LIN                                6.7
PUD                                0.2        1.8                 0.3       0.5
SPR                                 0.5       9.7      11.8      18.3      11.6      22.2      18.7       12.8
4.6
PCR
TOTALS:      110.4      54.2         38      11.5      11.9      18.7      12.1      22.2      18.7      17.4
This gives a total of    315.1 staff-weeks for the entire project cycle.



- 43 -
8.                           O: Missions Data
--                           ----------------                                   Rating
Stage of           Month/   Days in  Nuber of Specialization Number of   Overall
Project Cycle      Year      Field    persons   represented    Staff-days  Status
Identification 1  09/77         8         1         U                       8     n/a
Identification 2  11/78       11          2         F.F.                   22     n/a
Preparation 1      04/79        8         3          E.F.F                 24     n/a
Preparation 2       11/80       8         1          S.                     8      n/a
Preparation 3      04/81       10         3          E.E.U                 30      n/a
Preparation 4      07/81       11         3          E.E.U                 33      n/a
Pre-appraisal 1   02/82       11          6          E.E.U.F.F.O.          66      n/a
Pre-appraisal 2   10/82         4         1          E.                     4      n/a
Pre-appraisal 3   12/82        15         3          E.F.O.                45      n/a
Appraisal          06/83       17         5          E.U.F.O.O.            85      n/a
Supervision 1      07/84        8         3          E.L.Lo.               24         1
Supervision 2      03/85        7         2          L.F.                  14         1
Supervision 3       11/85       8         2          E.F.                  16         2
Supervision 4      05/86       11         1          B.                    11         2
Supervision 5       11/86      11         3          E.F.U.                33         2
Supervision 6      05/87        8         3          E.F.U.                24         2
Supervision 7       12/87       5         2          E.F.                  10         2
Supervision 8      09/88        8         4          E.F.U.U.              32         2
Supervision 9      02/89       17         3          F.U.I.                54         2
Supervision 10    12/89        12         2          F.l.                  24         2
Supervision 11    06/90        11         2          F.I.                  22         2
Supervision 12    02/91        13         2          F.I.                  26         2
Supervision 13    02/92        12         2          F.l.                  24         2
Supervision 14    07/92        11         2          F.l.                  22         2
Supervision 15    01/93        10        2           F.I.                  20         3
Supervision 16    07/93         3         2          F.I.                   6
PCR                07/93        8         1          1.                     8      n/a
Total of Mission/Staff Days:                                              695
Key to specialization:       E. Economist
F. Financial Analyst
U. Urban Planner
0. Organization Specialist
L. Lawyer
Lo.Loan Officer
I. Engineer



