Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                     C
Report No. P-3738-MA(
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 12.1 MILLION (US$12.8 MILLION EQUIVAL."'-
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAG
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only  . ormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World -[ank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   =  Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US 1.00                         =  FMG 400*
FMG 100                         =  US$ 0.25
FMG 1,000,000                   -  US$ 2,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (Metric System)
1 meter (m)                     =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                =  0.62 miles
1 square meter (m2)             =  10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)        =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                  =  2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                     =  0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)              =  264 US gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCT              Bureau de Circulation et de Transport (Traffic
Management Bureau)
BPU              Bureau du Projet Urbain (Urban Project Unit)
BTM              Rural Development Bank of Madagascar
CATP             Centre d'Application des Travaux Publics (Public Works
Training School)
CENAM            Centre National de l'Artisanat Malagasy (National Artisan
Center)
CFC              Centre de Formation de la Comptabilitg (Accountancy
Training Center)
CUR              Centre Universitaire Regional (Regional University Center)
DAUH             Direction de l'Architecture, de l'Urbanisme et de
l'Habitat (Directorate of Architecture, Urban Planning,
and Housing, Ministry of Public Works)
DGP              Direction Generale du Plan (Directorate
General of Planning, Office of the Presidency)
faritany        Local government unit:  ("province")
firaisana        Local government unit:  group of fokontany ("district")
fivondronana    Local government unit:  group of firaisana ("municipality")
fokontany        Local government unit:  ("neighborhood")
INPF            Institut National de Promotion-Formation (National
Promotion and Training Institute)
JIRAMA           Jiro sy Rano Malagasy (Water and Electricity Authority)
SEIMAD           Societe d'Equipement Immobilier de Madagascar
(Madagascar Housing Corporation)
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* Rate prevailing as of second half of 1983



-1
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
Urban Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:    Municipality of Antananarivo, Municipality of Toamasina,
Madagascar Housing Corporation (SEIMAD) and National
Artisan Center (CENAM).
Amount:            SDR 12.1 million (US$12.8 million).
Terms:             Standard IDA terms.
Relending terms:  The Government would relend US$5.9 million of the
proceeds of the credit to the Municipality of
Antananarivo, and US$3.2 million to the Municipality of
Toamasina. Funds for civil works would be relent at
10 percent interest per annum with a repayment period of
18 years including three years of grace. Terms of the
funds lent for municipal technical services, revenue
generation, financial management, and traffic management
would be 10 percent for 7 years including two years of
grace. In addition, the Government would relend
US$0.8 million of the IDA Credit to SEIMAD at 10 percent
interest per annum over 18 years including three years of
grace. US$0.6 million would be relent to CENAM to be
repaid at 10 percent over 12 years including two years of
grace. Finally the Government would make available
US$7.5 million, including US$2.3 million from the
proceeds of the IDA Credit, in the form of grants for
components whose costs would not be recovered.
Project Description:
Objectives:        The proposed project is designed to (i) improve the
financial and management capacity of the two
municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina;
(ii) strengthen the ability to maintain the most critical
municipal services at least at current levels;
(iii) expand the income-earning opportunities of poor
and middle-income families; (iv) demonstrate neighborhood
upgrading as a technically effective means of improving
living conditions while reducing the need for new housing
investment; and (v) build up capacity to design and carry
out similar projects on a sustained basis.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
Components:        (a) Improvement of municipal revenue generation and
collection as well as financial management in the
municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina;
(b) Improvement of technical services in the same two
municipalities;
(c) Neighborhood upgrading in the Isotry district of
Antananarivo and in four neighborhoods of Toamasina;
(d) Technical and financial assistance to artisans in the
building trades and to small contractors in
construction;
(e) Traffic management and transport studies; and
(f) Technical assistance and project management; studies
of land legislation and of means of improving the
financial and managerial capability of SEIMAD.
Benefits:          The project would help generate employment for about
750 people including members of three building
materials cooperatives, small contractors, and sidewalk
merchants at the Isotry Market. In addition, close to
1,000 artisans and contractors are likely to be hired
under loans for sanitation and housing construction.
By the end of the project, conditions would have
improved, often dramatically, for 65,000 residents
of upgraded districts plus 60,000 daily users of
5 intersections in Antananarivo. The project would
also increase the effectiveness of public investment by
ensuring a more dependable supply of urban services to
the economy, as well as the recovery of investment costs
from beneficiaries.
Risks:             The project's major risks are that the executing agencies
may have difficulty with project implementation because
of inexperience in execution of these types of programs,
that cost recovery will be slow to be implemented and
that land acquisition procedures may result in delays.
To minimize these risks, major emphasis has been placed
on institutional development by providing resources for
technical assistance, centralized coordination by the
Urban Project Unit (BPU), and managerial as well as
technical training. Resources are furthermore provided
to improve the assessment and collection of municipal
taxes. On the whole, the project presents an acceptable
level of risk, considering the benefits which would be
realized from it.



- iii -
Estimated Project costs:
Percent:
US$ million          Foreign
Component                              Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
Municipal revenue generation
and financial management                  0.6      0.5       1.1        50
Municipal technical services               1.5       2.2      3.7        59
Upgrading                                  2.8       1.5      4.3        35
Employment and income
generation                               0.6      0.8       1.4        55
Traffic management                         0.2       0.4      0.6        64
Project management
and studies                              0.4      1.9       2.3        84
Design and supervision                     0.5        -       0.5        _
Total Base Cost                      6.6       7.3      13.9        53
Physical contingencies                 0.4       0.4       0.8        50
Price escalation                        2.1      1.2       3.3        36
Total Contingencies                  2.5       1.6       4.1        39
TOTAL PROJECT COST1/                 9.1       8.9      18.0        49
Financing Plan:
…-----    (US$ million)-------
Local      Foreign       Total
A.  IDA                              3.9          8.9         12.8
B. Government
1. Investments and
operating costs                 2.3                       2.3
2. Taxes and duties                2.9                       2.9
Sub-Total                          5.2                       5.2
Total                            9.1          8.9         18.0
, US$2.9 million of taxes and duties are included.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year       1985   1986   1987   1988   1989  1990   1991   1992
Annual                1.2    1.4    2.4    2.6    2.2    1.6    1.0    0.4
Cumulative            1.2    2.6    5.0    7.6    9.8   11.4   12.4   12.8
Economic Rate of Return:  17 percent for quantifiable project components
representing 83 percent of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4758-MAG
Maps:  IBRD 17492 and 17491



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for
SDR 12.1 million (US$12.8 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to
help finance an Urban Development Project. The Borrower will relend
US$5.9 million of the IDA credit to the Municipality of Antananarivo and
US$3.2 million to the Municipality of Toamasina. The Borrower will also
relend US$0.8 million to the Madagascar Housing CorporatiuL (SEIMAD) and
US$0.6 million to the National Artisan Center (CENAM). Finally, the
Borrower will make available US$7.5 million, including US$2.3 million
from the proceeds of the IDA Credit, in the form of grants for components
whose cost would not be recovered.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Madagascar - Economic Memorandum" dated
November 3, 1981 was distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic
updating mission visited Madagascar in November/December 1982, and its
Report MAG (83-4) entitled "Current Economic Situation and Prospects"
dated March 20, 1983, was distributed to participants of the Madagascar
Consultative Group Meeting of April 27-29, 1983. This report incorporates
the findings of that mission. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I
to this report.
3.        Madagascar, with a population of 9.2 million and a GNP per
capita of about US$325 in 1982, is among the poorest countries in the
world. It is a sparsely settled country, with a population density of
about 15 persons per square kilometer. Although generally well endowed
with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are considerable
regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the most
economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate, the
South is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils, and
the eastern region has a tropical climate and although rich agriculturally,
crops are frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for
about 35 percent of GDP; about 85 percent of the population lives in rural
areas, and agricultural products account for about 80 percent of the
country's export earnings.
4.        Over the longer term Madagascar's development has been very
sluggish and erratic. For the period 1970-1982 there was, on average,
virtually no growth in real GDP; and with an average population growth of
about 2.8 percent per annum, per capita real income in 1982 was about
25 percent below its 1970 level.



- 2 -
5.        This very slow development was true for all sectors of the
economy. Agricultural output lagged conspicuously, and yields tended to
stagnate or decline; the country became increasingly dependent on imports,
especially of rice, to meet food requirements; and the volume of
agricultural exports virtually stagnated. Manufacturing output showed a
very modest expansion; the sector remained heavily dependent on imported
inputs and operated at low levels of capacity utilization. There was very
little expansion in the country's transport network and indeed the existing
transport facilities (road and rail) were subject to increasingly serious
deterioration.
6.        Most of the decade of the 1970s was also marked by the vigorous
pursuit of official policies which sought to reduce foreign involvement in
the economy, and through nationalizations and various economic controls, to
greatly extend the Government's role in economic activity.
7.        The poor growth and development performance and the extensive
institutional changes which were being effected were nevertheless
accompanied by continued cautious policies in balance of payments, public
finances and external debt. The external resource gap was kept at low
levels (about 3 percent of GDP from 1970-78), the overall Government budget
deficit fluctuated slightly around 2.5 percent of GDP and recourse to
external borrowing was strictly limited. Total external public debt
(outstanding and disbursed) at end 1977 was equivalent to about 13 percent
of GDP, compared to an average of about 22 percent for low income
developing countries, and the ratio of debt service payments to export
earnings at end 1977 was only about 3 percent.
8.        In 1978 the present Government adopted a significantly different
new economic policy orientation in undertaking a large expansion in public
sector investment with greatly increased reliance on external sources for
its financing. Investment outlays increased in volume terms by about
13 percent per annum between 1978-80 and the share of investment in GDP,
which had been about 14 percent since the early 1970s, rose to around
21 percent in 1979 and 1980. The increased investment resulted in
increased imports and coincided with virtually stagnant export earnings and
a deterioration in the terms of trade, so that Madagascar's balance of
payments deteriorated very sharply in 1979 and 1980 and the resource gap
reached almost 17 percent of GDP. External payments began to run into
difficulties in 1980 and foreign exchange shortages grew increasingly
severe through 1981 and 1982. This was to a considerable extent due to
rapidly growing claims of external debt services.
9.        With the rapid expansion in external borrowing and a hardening of
average terms, Madagascar's public external debt service obligations
increased dramatically from about US$19 million in 1978 (equivalent to
about 4 percent of receipts from exports of goods and non-factor services
in that year) to about US$265 million in 1982 (equivalent to about
72 percent of exports of goods and NFS). In 1981 and again in 1982
Madagascar sought and obtained a rescheduling of a part of debt service
obligations due. These reschedulings reduced payments due in 1981 and 1982
by over 50 percent so that service payments on external public debt
actually made in 1982 were equivalent to about 35 percent of export
receipts.



- 3 -
10.       The performance of the agricultural sector from 1979 on was less
disappointing than in the immediately preceding years, but was nevertheless
unsatisfactory. Output grew by 7 percent in 1979 and except for a drop of
1.5 percent in 1981 continued to grow by 2.5 percent per year. Since 1979
the weather has been poor and there have been shortages of inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and improved varieties of seeds. The production of
rice, the staple of the Malagasy diet, varied little between 1979 and 1982,
with slight declines in 1981 and 1982, the latter year due to an important
extent to the effects of the severe cyclones. There were considerable
differences among other crops. Most export crops had somewhat higher
outputs in 1982 than in 1979. In the case of coffee the increase was only
about 2.5 percent, but output reached the highest level so far obtained.
Cloves went through a peak of the clove cycle, beginning at the trough in
1979, almost tripling in 1980 and declining slightly thereafter. Vanilla
also picked up from a very low level in 1979 and almost doubled by 1982.
These three crops accounted for over 70 percent of merchandise exports.
11.       Since 1979 the drop in industrial production, including mining,
has been especially sharp. Production at end 1982 had dropped to
70 percent of the level in 1979, lower than in any year of the 1970s.
Output in every branch of production was lower in 1982 than in 1979, with
the exception of petroleum products, which reached a peak in 1980. A
particularly serious aspect was that the output of some basic consumption
items (soap, shoes, matches, batteries) had dropped by well over one half
since 1979.
12.       The central Government's finances in 1978-82 clearly reflect the
investment boom and the subsequent efforts to restore equilibrium. Total
expenditures more than doubled between 1978 and 1980 and declined slightly
in 1981 and 1982, when the inflation rate was much higher. The overall
deficit swung from 4 percent of GDP in 1978 to a peak of 18 percent in 1981
and then down to 9 percent in 1982. The recurrent budget contributed
little to the swings since expenditures and revenues moved roughly in
line. The main cause was the capital budget, which more than quadrupled
between 1978 and 1980 and declined by 57 percent from 1980 to 1982.
However, other Government expenditures, mostly Treasury on-lending and
general Government expenditures from the export crop stabilization funds,
have grown continuously and in 1982 exceeded capital expenditure. Despite
considerable growth in nominal terms, both revenues and recurrent
expenditures generally declined in real terms after 1980. The growth of
revenues has been greatly slowed by the deterioration of the economic
situation, although a number of measures were taken to increase taxation in
1982.
13.      The investment boom and the ensuing stabilization policies are
also reflected in the money and credit figures for the years 1978-82. The
net foreign asset position of the monetary system deteriorated rapidly in
1979 and 1980 and more slowly in the next two years. Net domestic credit
expansion was overwhelmingly in net Government borrowing from the Central
Bank; at end 1982 it was 58 percent of total net domestic credit, as
compared to 31 percent at end 1978.
14.       Available price information indicates accelerating inflation over
the last year or two. The official cost of living index for Antananarivo,
which is likely to understate the actual price rises, showed an 18 percent



- 4 -
increase in 1980 and about 31 percent in 1981 and 1982. The implicit CDP
deflator shows a parallel development with a 15 percent increase in 1980, a
25 percent increase in 1981, and a 34 percent increase in 1982.
15.       The balance of payments has also been affected by the investment
spending of 1978-80, but the sluggishness of exports and the difficulties
in reducing imports have made restoration of external equilibrium
especially difficult. The current account deficit began to rise rapidly
from less than 2 percent of GDP in 1978 to over 18 percent. Transactions
with the rest of the world had been financed by a total exhaustion of
reserves, an unprecedented degree of foreign borrowing, and by incurring
substantial arrears on external payments obligations. The Government began
to take strong measures to restore equilibrium in 1981 and 1982, notably by
tightly restricting imports and by negotiating arrangements with the IMF
and the Paris Club. It succeeded in reducing the overall deficit to FMG
31.4 billion (US$90 million) in 1982, thanks to the agreements reached with
the IMF and the Paris Club as well as some exceptional balance of payments
financing, but it failed to improve significantly the current account,
whose deficit in 1982 was still US$350 million.
16.       The main reason for the failure to improve the current account
was that capital goods imports, which were tied to the existing financing
arrangements and on-going projects, continued at very high levels through
1981 and 1982. The total volume of imports grew by 33 percent in this
period, but price increases were also substantial, increasing at roughly
the same rate. The foreign exchange shortages that began in 1980 and grew
much worse in 1981-82 obliged the Government to restrict imports where it
could. The categories of raw materials and spare parts and of non-food
consumer goods suffered most, though the Government ensured that energy
imports covered essential needs. Food imports increased because bad
weather, including serious floods, reduced the rice harvests. The sluggish
export performance aggravated difficulties. During 1978-1982 the volume of
exports stagnated. Coffee, the main export, was seriously affected by the
international market situation, first by a drop in prices in 1981 and then
by the ICO quota restrictions.
17.       The IMF Board approved its first Stand-by arrangement with
Madagascar in June 1980, but, since the Government failed to limit its
expenditures sufficiently, the program was suspended, though some of the
other measures in the program had been implemented e.g. increasing
revenues. A second Stand-by agreement was concluded in April 1982
providing for drawings of SDR 109 million (US$130 million) by June 1982.
This agreement too had to be suspended because unanticipated shortfalls in
export earnings and smaller inflows of capital from commercial banks than
expected made it impossible for the Government to abide by the program for
more than part of the period. A third Stand-by agreement, for the period
to June 1983, was approved by the IMF Board in July 1982. This arrangement
made available SDR 51 million (US$57 million) in addition to SDR 22 million
(US$24.6 million) under the Compensatory Fund Facility (CFF).
18.       A first meeting of the Consultative Group for Madagascar took
place in April 1983 (following a Donors Conference in June 1982). One of
the objectives of the meeting was to secure additional external assistance
commitments sufficient to cover the country's external resource gap for
calendar year 1983, a requirement which the IMF had made a condition for



- 5 -
Madagascar's continued access to Fund resources under the Third stand-by
arrangement. The meeting was successful in securing commitments to cover
the estimated gap requirement. However, by June 1983 it had become evident
that Madagascar would not be able to comply with IMF stand-by performance
criteria for the reduction of external payments arrears. This was in large
part due to unanticipated delays in concluding clove export contract
agreements with Indonesia which occasioned a significant shortfall in
anticipated export receipts. The extent of Madagascar's non-compliance
with the reduction in payments arrears was such as to require suspension of
the third stand-by agreement and prevent Madagascar making the final
drawing due in June 1983. However, negotiations began immediately between
the IMF and the Malagasy authorities on a fourth Stand-by arrangement. In
addition to establishing performance targets for external borrowing,
domestic credit, reduction in external arrears, and maintenance of
appropriate exchange rate adjustments, the new Government proaram requires
increases in prices for major agricultural products, further mieasures to
liberalize the marketing of agricultural products, and progress towards a
market-determined system for interest rates.  The letter of intent for the
fourth Stand-by was signed in October 1983 and the new agreement was
approved by the IMF Board at the end of December 1983. A further meeting
of the Paris Club to reschedule debt service falling due in 1984-85 took
place in March 1984. A meeting of donor countries took place in April 1984
and a full Consultative Group Meeting is scheduled for Autumn 1984.
19.       The economic crisis and the greater dependence on external donors
have prompted the Government to question many of its policies and to
appreciate that a sustained improvement in the economy's performance
requires considerable policy reform and a more systematic approach to the
balance of payments and public investment. Of the weaknesses underlying
the economy the most harmful has been the persistent low productivity of
agriculture, the result of many and complex factors among which are the
lack of price incentives, inefficient state marketing, and shortages of
inputs. In industry, commerce and transport price controls and shortages
of inputs have posed equally serious problems. One especially grave
feature of Government policy has been inadequate resources for maintenance,
and hence a deterioration of infrastructure, particularly of roads. On
most of these points the Government has either begun to take action or is
working out new policies. A major step has been the preparation of a
public investment program for 1983-85. This program, apart from bringing
Government investments in line with projected resource availabilities and
ensuring a degree of coordination between ministries and agencies that has
been lacking in the past, emphasizes rehabilitation and maintenance rather
than new investments.
20.       Over the last couple of years the Government has shown a
willingness to take a number of difficult policy measures. At the
Consultative Group Meeting, Government announced its intentions to free the
marketing of rice. As a first step it was decided to liberalize price
controls by allowing free movement between minimum producer price and
maximum consumer price, and to permit the private sector to trade rice
except in the areas of Somalac and Fifabe. Transport tariffs have been
increased in June 1983 as agreed during the negotiations of the Sixth
Highway Project. A 10.5 percent de facto devaluation took effect on
October 3, 1983 as part of an exchange rate adjustment. Government has
also engaged in a reassessment of its public investment program and is



- 6 -
considering abandoning certain projects which could not be rehabilitated.
A major cabinet reshuffle in July 1983 has reinforced the economic
management team by giving prominence to technicians who are taking a
pragmatic approach. Cost recovery is now at the forefront of Government
policy and emphasis has been put on relaxing administrative controls. Some
liberalization measures are also expected in the industrial sector and we
expect to support the Government program with an operation in industry
which was appraised January-February 1984.
21.       Increased external financing on a concessionary basis will be
required to support the Government's economic restructuring and development
efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to service external debt. Given
Madagascar's poverty and current resource constraints, IDA should continue
to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
22.       IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$415.25 million (including
US$29.9 million from the Special Fund) and Bank loans total US$32.57
million. Since 1975, about 42 percent of Bank Group lending has been for
transport, 29 percent for agriculture, 15 percent for electric power and
petroleum, 6 percent for industry and water, 4 percent for technical
assistance and 4 percent for education. IFC's first investment was in 1977
for the expansion of a textile mill. In 1980 IFC made a US$1.25 million
loan for the Bata shoe manufacturing company in Antananarivo and an
investment of US$7.44 million for the Pgcheries de Nossi-Be; other projects
are under preparation. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
23.       Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated in the
key areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure),
agriculture and energy. In infrastructure, four projects have provided for
the construction of all-weather highway links between the island's
different regions and three projects for road maintenance. There have been
projects to improve Madagascar's main port of Toamasina, and to support the
railway's modernization efforts. Urban infrastructure development has
benefitted from a water supply and sanitation project for the capital city
of Antananarivo for which a US$20.5 million credit was signed in May 1980.
In the social sectors, education has been the major recipient of Bank
assistance with two credits totalling US$18.8 million. In addition,
studies for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency have led to preparation of the proposed urban development
project. We began lending to the industrial sector with a first
US$5 million DFC credit to the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar
(BNI) in May 1980. In addition, a credit of SDR 9.4 million for an
accounting and audit project was signed in June 1981.
24.       Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of three livestock
development projects, three irrigation projects, two forestry projects,
an agricultural credit project, a rice intensification project and a cotton
project. A US$2.3 million technical assistance credit to study investment
alternatives in the Plain of Antananarivo area was signed in January 1981
and has shown that only the benefits from using land intensively -- such



- 7 -
as for urban settlement or market gardening -- seem likely to justify the
substantial cost of flood protection works. A US$5.7 million technical
assistance credit for an Agriculture Institutions project was signed in
June 1982. In addition, a credit of US$17.8 million was approved by the
Executive Directors on December 20, 1983 for a Cotton Project. We expect
agriculture to continue to absorb a large share of Bank Group lending, in
line with Government strategy to expand agricultural production. Further
rural development and crop production projects are being prepared.
25.       Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention.
IDA participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982. A US$12.5 million credit for petroleum exploration promotion is
supporting the Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of
hydrocarbons and to improve planning in the energy sector.  In addition, a
heavy oil exploration credit (Tsimiroro), in the amount of SDR 10.7 million
was approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1982. Both
projects are proceeding well.
26.       In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of project
agencies. Recent problems have centered on difficulties linked to the
country's economic crisis, notably the acute shortage of foreign exchange
and budget funds and institutional problems related above all to the
parastatal system. Nevertheless, the Fourth Highway project is nearly
completed and construction under the Fifth Highway project is well advanced
with US$13.0 million out of US$24.0 million expected to be disbursed by
June 1984. Disbursements under the Second Railway Project are virtually
completed. Disbursement of the railway credit was suspended on June 25,
1982 pending Government action to correct major deficiencies affecting the
railway's operations. They were resumed in December 1982, after the
Government had implemented a satisfactory financial recovery program. More
recently, difficulties with covenanted financial rates of return in the
Water/Sanitation project have resulted in a request made to Government to
prepare an Action Plan for the state water and power company, JIRAMA.
Measures have been adopted to improve the financial management of the
project. Due to difficulties occasioned by a poor choice of consultants
and disorganized municipal finances, the sanitation component of the
project was very slow in starting.
27.       Experience with project implementation in agriculture has been
mixed, reflecting the difficult experience of the agriculture sector in
general over the last few years. The Bank Group's involvement in two
irrigation projects involving rice and cotton production provides striking
illustrations of the impact of policy and the general economic environment
on project implementation. Both the Morondava and the Mangoky projects
were designed to increase production through extension of cultivable land
under irrigation. Both experienced substantial cost overruns which
necessitated reductions in the irrigated area under development.
Production too has slumped on both schemes. The Morondava project,
approved in 1972 and closed in 1981, was a serious problem project. Even
after incurring cost overruns of 70 percent over appraisal estimates, only
60 percent of planned land development was carried out and agricultural
production fell far below appraisal estimates. The rate of return is



likely to prove negative.  In the Mangoky project, yields of seed cotton,
the most important crop grown in the network, plummeted from about 3 tons
per ha in the early 1970s to less than one ton per ha and the area
cultivated decreased. The deterioration of agricultural and land
development performance had a direct impact on the financial situation of
SAMANGOKY which has accumulated debts of more than FMG 1.5 billion
(US$3.7 million). An additional effect of the company's difficulties has
been a loss of part of the cultivated area due to flooding and salinity and
increasing deterioration of the state of the irrigation network.
28.       Key factors in the performance of these two projects were:  (i)
the weakness of the parastatal managing institutions; (ii) the incentive
structure, both at scheme level and in the official pricing systems; (iii)
inadequate arrangements for maintenance and cost recovery on the schemes;
and (iv) the macroeconomic environment, particularly the availability of
foreign exchange. The hard-learned lessons of these two projects are being
applied to the Mangoky project, which has recently been restructured to
reflect implementation experience and Government's recovery policy. The
accent in the restructured project is on getting the incentives right so
that both producers and parastatals find production attractive, and on
making the best use of existing investments without undertaking further
expansion.
29.       In contrast to this experience, after initial delays, the
executing agency for the First and Second Village Livestock Projects,
FAFIFAMA, developed into a satisfactory institution with technically
competent and dedicated management. Similarly, the project agency for the
First and Second Mangoro Forestry Projects, FANALAMANGA, established a
strong record, with execution of components ahead of schedule and in line
with appraisal cost estimates. However, technical problems over tree
growth have led to a cutback in the planting program. In general, most
projects are now being adversely affected by the worsening economic
conditions and particularly by shortages of foreign exchange.
30.       IFC has three investments in Madagascar in textiles, footwear and
fisheries. The first investment was made in 1977 when IFC participated in
financing the SOTEMA textile mill. Recently SOTEMA encountered problems in
obtaining a sufficient cotton allocation, in transfering payments on its
loan to IFC, and was threatened with conversion to a Socialist Enterprise.
All of these problems appear to have been satisfactorily resolved and this
year IFC made its third investment in the Nossi-Be fisheries project.
31.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects have
been completed and audited by the Operations Evaluation Department. The
Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976 on the first Lac Alaotra project
concluded that the project was generally successful. However, the Impact
Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981 concluded that earlier
assessments of project performance had been overoptimistic, and that the
actual economic rate of return was probably negative. The Audit Report
No. 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded
that the Project had contributed little to Madagascar. The Audit Report
No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third Highway project was well
justified and had a good rate of return despite substantial cost overruns.
Report No. 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the physical objectives
of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved but pointed



- 9 -
out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during project
implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Impacts of Urban Growth: Antananarivo and Toamasina
32.       A steadily expanding portion of Madagascar's population of
9.2 million people now lives in cities. From the present 18 percent of
the population, the proportion of the population living in urban areas is
expected to reach about 25 percent by the year 2000. By then, 125,000 new
residents would be added to cities each year, three quarters of them
through natural increase and only one quarter through migration from rural
areas. This sustained growth is leaving the cities ill-equipped to provide
the employment and services required for a viable economy. The stagnation
of the economy's productive sectors has contributed to the spread of
low-productivity jobs in services and the informal sector. Moreover,
because funds and equipment are scarce, essential infrastructure is not
being maintained. The weak local tax base worsens this situation by
forcing local officials to turn to the national budget for the most urgent
expenditures, at a time when the economy as a whole cannot generate the
savings required for investments in the priority sectors of agriculture,
industry, and transport. Deteriorated service networks, low labor
productivity and earnings, run down housing, and inadequate urban transport
show that the impacts of poorly managed urban growth are pervasive. They
are especially serious in Antananarivo and Toamasina, the capital and chief
port cities of Madagascar.
33.       Antananarivo.  With a 1982 population of 595,000 in the central
city and another 250,000 in suburban districts, the capital city of
Antananarivo accommodates nearly half the urban population of Madagascar.
If Antananarivo is to increase its effectiveness as the country's chief
employment, trading, and management center, it must meet the challenge of
continued migration and further population increases in a unique spatial
setting. The crowded city center was built on steep hills above the rice
fields and market gardens of the surrounding Plain of Antananarivo. As
land values rose, new households sought cheaper land outside the city
proper. The result has been an almost completely unchecked expansion,
either onto the surrounding plain where flooding is frequent, or onto
steeply sloped hills whose access to the city is restricted to one or two
road corridors. Jobs and services have not kept pace with this expansion.
Nearly half of Antananarivo has neither sewerage nor lower-cost
alternatives such as septic tanks. Lack of adequate waste disposal and
storm water runoff creates pools of stagnant water on house lots and
streets, permitting waterborne diseases to spread more freely. Road
congestion has been worsened by the increase in private cars and in general
traffic along commuter routes to or across the city center. The
difficulties in even maintaining transport networks at their current levels
were compounded by the floods of January-February 1982 and the aftermath
of hurricanes in January and in April 1984, which caused extensive buckling
of street surfaces. For lack of equipment and organization of road crews,
city streets remained virtually impassable for long periods.



- 10 -
34.       Toamasina.  Similar problems of inadequate services and poor
urban management occur in a much different setting at Toamasina, the
country's main port and terminal for rail shipments to Antananarivo. In
contrast to the crowded districts of Antananarivo, Toamasina has reached
its present population of 100,000 by expansion at low density on a coastal
plain where long narrow ridges of sand alternate with troughs of stagnant,
swampy water. Although investments carried out in the 1950's improved
drainage for some districts, four neighborhoods to the west and south of
the city center completely lack basic drainage (See Map 17491). Safe,
piped water in addition to drainage is an urgent priority for these
neighborhoods, since about 40 percent of the population obtains drinking
water from contaminated ground sources.
Urban Institutions
35.       Responsibilities for urban services, employment, and housing are
organized in a pattern similar to that of many other countries in the
region. A coordinating body, in this case the Directorate General of
Planning (DGP) in the Office of the Presidency, is charged with preparing
and reviewing urban investment programs and coordinating their
implementation. The Interior Ministry supervises local governments.
Technical ministries and public agencies are in charge of programs in
sub-sectors such as land servicing and housing (Ministry of Public Works
and the Madagascar Housing Corporation, SEIMAD) and artisan promotion (the
National Artisan Center, CENAM). Municipalities are responsible for the
repair of streets and the maintenance of other essential services such as
road markings, drainage channels, and solid waste collection.
36.       In practice, however, the weak coordination, outdated equipment,
and inadequately trained staff that characterize urban institutions have
blurred lines of responsibility as new functions are created or taken over
without redefining the old. Following a decentralization program begun in
1974, responsibility for community facilities, minor drainage, street
maintenance, and refuse collection is divided among the different levels of
local government. Primary education and primary health care, for example,
are to be handled by neighborhood units (fokontany), numbering 500 - 1,000
people. Markets and civil registration (births and deaths) are the
responsibility of district (firaisana) governments, while larger facilities
such as hospitals and Regional University Centers (CUR) are managed by the
provinces (faritany).
37.       The Public Works Ministry, through its Directorate of
Architecture, Urban Planning, and Housing (DAUH), has had little success in
increasing the stock of urban housing. DAUH has mainly relied on the
experience of SEIMAD, a mixed company 80 percent publicly owned, to design,
promote, and manage housing programs. Over the past several years the
scope of SEIMAD's housing programs has largely been confined to managing
the current inventory of 7,000 units. Water and electricity networks on
all housing sites are installed by Jiro sy Rano Malagasy (JIRAMA), the
water and electricity agency.



- 11 -
38.       The artisan and building trades receive assistance through CENAM,
created in 1978 following an International Labor Office (ILO) study of the
organization of job creation and training in Madagascar. UNDP financing
since August 1978 has helped establish the main CENAM office in
Antananarivo and 6 regional centers. With ILO assistance, CENAM is
promoting artisan cooperatives to manufacture bricks and ceramics,
construction and agricultural tools, textiles, and leather. Cooperatives
are given training and guidance in marketing, improvement of technical
skills, and basic management.
39.       Municipal Management and Finance.  Municipalities (fivondronana)
have the dual role of (a) managing programs of service provision and
maintenance of infrastructure, including those initiated within their
borders by national ministries; and (b) supervising their constituent
districts (firaisana) and neighborhoods (fokontany), which in reality has
often meant taking over tasks the lower tier governments are unable to
carry out. Lack of resources has severely hampered the effectiveness of
municipal administrations. The principal sources of municipal receipts,
totalling about US$5.6 million for Antananarivo in 1982 and US$900,000 for
Toamasina in 1981, are direct and indirect taxes, rents from municipal
property, charges for services, Government grants, and transfers of taxes
collected nationally. Infrequent revision of property valuations has
contributed to a decline of 16 percent in real receipts from direct taxes
during the 1970s. The level of Government grants and transferred taxes has
fluctuated greatly over the same period. Indirect taxes, rents, and
charges for services have remained stable in money terms, resulting in a
steep decline in real terms during the period 1971-1980. The failure of
all revenue categories to keep pace with service requirements has resulted
in maintenance of service networks either being given over to other
agencies (principally the already overstretched Public Works Ministry), or
simply not being undertaken. On issues that are best dealt with on a
metropolitan scale, such as transport policy, coordination between the main
Antananarivo municipality and the three other municipalities in the
Antananarivo region has proved elusive. No agency, for example, has been
given responsibility for area-wide transport planning.
40.       Government Initiatives.  New policy directions in employment,
urban transport, and urban planning are being prepared or are beginning to
be applied. In the current planning framework, Madagascar's development
poles such as Antananarivo and Toamasina are to be the focus of job
creation and training that would promote the use of local building
materials. Encouragement of small enterprise has so far largely meant
stimulating the formation of production and marketing cooperatives,
although small-scale house construction and upgrading are also being
encouraged for their positive effects on employment. Following studies of
traffic management financed by UNDP, city officials have introduced better
sign posting, signal systems, and one-way streets that have improved
traffic flows in central Antananarivo. However, coordination between units
responsible for transport and traffic research, project preparation, and
management remains weak. Two urban planning studies also financed by UNDP,
one to update the 1974 Antananarivo master plan and the other to prepare
planning guidelines and sectoral strategies for the Greater Antananarivo
area, are providing the physical planning framework for decisions on where
future urban growth should be encouraged. The updated master plan, now
being reviewed by the Government, takes better account of the extremely



- 12 -
limited resources available for urban investment than the 1974 plan, in
that financial and institutional issues are given more weight in investment
decisions. A 25-year master plan and sectoral development programs for the
Antananarivo region would be prepared under the planning framework study,
which would be carried out in the Public Works Ministry for 18 months
beginning in July 1983. To improve coordination among these programs, a
unit in the Directorate General of Planning has been functioning since
mid-1982. This unit was recently strengthened through French technical
assistance.
41.       During the 1980s, resources for urban investment in Madagascar
will be limited both by the slow and erratic growth foreseen for the
economy and by policies to redirect investment toward the top priority
sectors of agriculture, transportation, and energy. However, the urban
population, although still relatively small, has already reached the point
where inefficiencies in service provision and the lack of jobs impede
further economic progress and social well-being. Since central government
financing cannot be counted upon to meet even the most critical urban
needs, local governments and private savings must be relied upon to
generate the resources for maintenance and improvement of urban services.
Opportunities to strengthen local government finance, as well as
institutions with a key role in making urban investments more effective,
provide the basis for the Bank's interest in this project.
42.       The dialogue between the Government and the Bank on these issues
began on a sustained basis in 1978 and intensified during 1980-1982, when
the Bank acted as Executing Agency for a program of urban studies financed
by UNDP. Other parts of the study program included the two urban planning
studies of Antananarivo (para. 40), for which the UN Centre for Human
Settlements (UNCHS) was Associated Executing Agency. Through this
dialogue, a foundation has been laid for translating sectoral plans and
programs into permanent reforms by promoting the repetition, financially
and organizationally, of projects starting out on a modest scale. In
addition, the Government assisted by the IDA technical assistance credit
(para. 24), has begun to distill the results of many engineering studies
into coherent technical proposals for land use in the Antananarivo Plain.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project would be the first Bank group financed urban
development project in Madagascar, and would complement ongoing Bank group
projects that have urban-related components in water and sanitation,
transport, small-scale entreprise and technical assistance. The proposed
project was identified in November 1978 as described above in para. 42 and
was appraised in June 1983. An advance of US$150,000 from the Project
Preparation Facility was made in March 1983 for completion of detailed
engineering, preparation of bidding documents for upgrading, and equipment,
vehicles, and technical assistance required during start-up of the
project. A US$91,000 extension of this request for the same purposes was
approved in May 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1984.
The Malagasy delegation was led by H.E. Leon Rajaobelina, Ambassador of the
Democratic Republic of Madagascar. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4758-MAG
is being circulated separately.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
44.       The proposed project has three main objectives:  to strengthen
institutions and financial management; to arrest the deterioration of
existing infrastructure; and to contribute to increased employment in
cities and towns. More specifically, it would: (a) improve the
financial and management capacity of the two municipalities of
Antananarivo and Toamasina; (b) strengthen the ability to maintain the
most critical municipal services at least at current levels; (c) expand
the income-earning opportunities of poor and middle-income families;
(d) demonstrate neighborhood upgrading as a technically effective means of
improving living conditions while reducing the need for new housing
investment; and (e) build up capacity to design and carry out similar
projects on a sustained basis.
Project Description
45.       Consistent with the three main objectives listed above, the
proposed project would include the following main elements: (a) it would
strengthen the municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina by improving
property tax administration, recovery of other municipal revenues and
financial management; vehicles, staff training and upgrading of equipment
would be provided to maintain essential urban services; and in addition
technical assistance, training and studies would be provided to establish a
project unit and to support the agencies responsible for implementation;
(b) it would improve basic infrastructure and community facilities in the
Isotry district of Antananarivo and in four neighborhoods of Toamasina, and
also strengthen traffic management and transport planning in Antananarivo;
and (c) it would provide technical and financial assistance to artisans in
the building trades and to small contractors in construction.
46.       Municipal Revenue Generation and Financial Management.  Proposals
for strengthening local finance provide for: (a) increasing the frequency
of property revaluation and improving the efficiency of property tax
collection; and (b) increasing receipts of five other city taxes, in part
through a firmer commitment on revenue sharing. In order to provide for
more frequent updating of values, the period between updates of rental
values, which make up the property tax base, would be reduced from five
years to three years. To reduce the lags in collection of the property tax
that are evident in Toamasina, the project would cover the salaries of five
additional collectors for one year and light vehicles for the team of
collectors.
47.       In addition the two municipalities would agree to raise other
fees and charges. In the case of Antananarivo, rentals on municipal
housing would be increased by 100 percent in real terms and fees for
market stalls by 140 percent in real terms, over six years beginning in
1984 (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement with the Municipality of
Antananarivo). Arrears on central Government transfers to Antananarivo of
receipts of the Professional Tax, Vehicle Tax and Alcoholic Beverage Tax
would be eliminated by the end of 1986 (Section 3.05, (i) draft Development
Credit Agreement). In the case of Toamasina, indirect taxes would be
increased in real terms by 50 percent over the three years 1984-1986,
rents from private municipal property by 100 percent in real terms during



- 14 -
1984-1988, and during the same period rents and charges on public buildings
by 50 percent in real terms and charges for municipal services by
50 percent in real terms (Section 3.03, draft Project Agreement with the
Municipality of Toamasina,). Arrears on central Government transfers to
Toamasina of Professional Tax receipts would be eliminated by the end of
1985 (Section 3.05 (iii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       With regard to financial management, in Antananarivo a
Directorate of Financial Affairs would be created and staffed, and a
Committee for Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation established.
Economic and financial staff of the Directorate would be trained, and
equipment, materials, and 24 specialist-months of advice in municipal
finance would be provided. In Toamasina the present Accounting Department
chief would be supported by the appointment of a deputy who would handle
much of the day-to-day management of the Department and the project
accounts. The chief and deputy chief would be assisted by a municipal
finance adviser (12 specialist-months), and would each receive four months
of training.
49.       Municipal Technical Services.  To improve the maintenance of
essential urban services, city departments in Antananarivo and Toamasina
concerned with street repairs, sanitation and drainage, and logistical
support would be strengthened through acquisition of vehicles, staff
training, and upgrading of equipment. Training, locally and abroad, would
be provided for technical staff and middle-level managers such as repair
workshop chiefs.
50.       Project Management and Studies.  An Urban Project Unit (Bureau du
Projet Urbain, BPU) in the Public Works Ministry would be established with
technical assistance, which would be assigned by BPU to other executing
agencies. Salaries of BPU staff would be fully supported within the
project over the first four years, then at 50 percent for the remaining two
years during the evaluation of its performance and transition to the status
of a fully integrated governmental service. BPU would carry out (i) a
study to revise legislation governing land expropriation and measures to
increase the effective supply of land for development; and (ii) a
management audit of SEIMAD, which would recommend actions to improve
SEIMAD's finances and management performance (Section 3.08 (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Upgrading.  To improve basic infrastructure and community
facilities, neighborhood upgrading programs would be carried out in the
district of Isotry in Antananarivo and the districts of Ambalakisoa,
Ankirihiry, Mangarivotra, and Morarano in Toamasina. In Isotry, the
upgrading program will include construction on improvement of streets,
drainage channels, water standpipes, washing points, the street lighting
network, solid waste containers, and the neighborhood market. Completion
of land expropriation and registration of such land in the name of the
municipality would be a condition of disbursement for upgrading in
Antananarivo (Schedule 1, para. 4 (c), draft Development Credit
Agreement). In Toamasina, the program will include paving and resurfacing
of streets (about 3 km), construction of cement-lined drainage canals,
cleaning and reshaping of the Ankirihiry Canal, installation of standpipes,
construction of washing points and installation of fire hydrants, extension
of the street lighting network, and upgrading of the Ankirihiry maternal



- 15 -
and child care center to the status of a health center.  Completion of
transfer of the project sites to municipal registry would be a condition of
disbursement for upgrading in Toamasina (Schedule 1, para. 4 (d), draft
Development Credit Agreement). Transfer of the site to the Ministry of
Health would be a condition of disbursement for contruction of the
Ankirihiry Health Center (Schedule 1, para. 4 (b), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
52.       Families in these areas do not have credit available to them for
house constructioa or improvement. The project would make available to
families a line of credit for upgrading their houses and for improvement of
septic tanks. Only households with incomes at or below the 70th income
percentile would be eligible. The loans would have a maximum amount of
450,000 FMG (about UJS$1,100) with 12 percent per annum interest rate to be
repaid over 15 years including one year of grace (Annex (A) to Schedule 2,
draft Development Credit Agreement). They would be recovered from
beneficiaries by SEIMAD. Based on preparation surveys and assuming a
take-up rate of 40 percent, loans equivalent to about 200 units of 12 m2
rooms would be appropriate in Antananarivo and about 400 units of 12 m2
rooms in Toamasina.
53.       Traffic Management.  Measures under the project would alleviate
the most serious traffic bottlenecks in Isotry, improve traffic flows at
5 intersections, and lay the groundwork for more systematic transport
planning in Antananarivo. The improvements in traffic management include
installation of traffic lights, displacement of streets borders, repair
of sidewalks, painting of crosswalks, and installation of parking areas.
Within BPU, a Traffic Management Bureau (Bureau de circulation et de
transport, BCT), headed by a traffic engineer, would function as the
studies and design bureau for national ministries, parastatals, and
municipalities in the Greater Antananarivo region. This unit would
(a) supervise execution of the traffic management schemes; (b) for the
main Antananarivo municipality, prepare preliminary designs and cost
estimates of measures to upgrade surfaces and edges of roads and streets;
(c) prepare a framework plan for traffic management in Greater
Antananarivo; and (d) carry out an organizational study of public
transport.
54.       Employment and Income Generation.  Small businesses and artisans
in the building trades would be supported through (a) creation of three
cooperatives ("production units") to make building materials and tools; and
(b) technical and management assistance to small contractors. The
production units include: a facility to produce 2.4 million bricks and
600,000 compressed tiles yearly at a site north of Antananarivo; a
semi-industrial woodworking unit to produce doors, windows, and roof
supports; and a unit to produce construction tools, which would be sold to
small contractors working under the project as well as others on the local
market. Assistance to small contractors includes training, organization,
and technical advice to teams carrying out small-scale civil works and
those hired under loans to reconstruct septic tanks or improve housing.



- 16 -
Project Execution and Management
55.      BPU.  Overall project management would be the responsibility of
BPU. The Project Director, Chief Technical Officer, and Chief
Administrative and Financial Officer of BPU would be mainly responsible for
monitoring the progress of the project toward its stated objectives.
In addition to management and coordination of the project as a whole, BPU
would be responsible for studies and traffic management improvements, the
latter through the Traffic Management Bureau (BCT) to be established within
BPU. BPU would also supervise, in addition to the land legislation study
and SEIMAD management audit (para. 50), two studies that would enhance the
prospects for replicating key project features on a broader scale. These
studies would assess the impacts of municipal finance reforms and of the
organizational framework of the project itself, drawing lessons in both
cases for the conduct of future operations. The local finance study would
be done in early 1988 so as to review experience with the 1984 and 1987
property revaluations and give guidance on how the Infrastructure Fund for
Urban Housing could be mobilized to support the expenditure needs of local
authorities. The organization study (late 1988) is timed to coincide with
the period of reflection on the future status of BPU and the takeover by
Government of 50 percent of BPU operating costs and salaries.
56.       Under the overall responsibility of BPU, the municipalities of
Antananarivo and Toamasina would be responsible for carrying out measures
to strengthen their financial management and service capacity. For both
upgrading operations, the municipalities will rely on SEIMAD (para. 58)
to organize and execute the required works, as well as to administer
housing and septic tank loans. CENAM, the artisan assistance agency, would
manage the building materials production units, while SEIMAD would assist
small contractors and artisans in the context of its upgrading programs.
Details of the relationships outlined above were discussed at negotiations
and will be confirmed in five agreements whose signature is a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (e) and (f), draft Development Credit
Agreement). An implementation agreement ("convention de travail") among
BPU and the excecuting agencies (SEIMAD, CENAM, and the two municipalities)
will define responsibilities for project execution. Four management
agreements ("accords de gestion") will also be concluded: (a) between the
Municipality of Antananarivo and SEIMAD, for Antananarivo upgrading; (b)
between the Municipality of Toamasina and SEIMAD, for Toamasina upgrading;
(c) between CENAM and the Rural Development Bank (BTM) for administration
of loans to production units; and (d) between the Municipality of
Antananarivo and BPU for traffic management improvements.
57.       Municipalities.  Building on the present organization, units in
Antananarivo handling street and building maintenance, sanitation, and
vehicle repair would be strengthened. Maintenance units would be fully
staffed, and training programs well underway, by the end of 1986. Although
the staff for certain tasks need to be strengthened, more generally the
staffing needs of technical services units with the project are some
35 percent less than present totals. Antananarivo has introduced a policy
of non-replacement of retiring or departing staff, which has reduced the
staff complement by about 3 percent annually for the past two years.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this policy would continue,
which would result in a reduction of technical services staff from 1,337 to
about 1,200 by the end of 1987 (Section 3.02 (a), draft Project Agreement



- 17 -
with the Municipality of Antananarivo). Concerning Toamasina, all
technical services are currently grouped into a single Street Maintenance
unit. Ten distinct services have informally evolved within this grouping,
many without even nominal leadership. During preparation and appraisal a
reorganization into Works, Maintenance, and Technical Design Departments
was proposed, and is now being considered. As agreed negotiations,
Toamasina would put into effect an organization plan for its technical
services satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1984 (Section 3.02, draft
Project Agreement with the Municipality of Toamasina).
58.       SEIMAD.  Supervisory responsibility for upgrading would lie with
the two municipalities, which however would delegate actual execution to
SEIMAD. JIRAMA would install water and public lighting networks.
Construction of standpipes, washing points, and solid waste containers
would be done by local contractors and artisans supervised bv SEIMAD.
Administration of housing and sanitation loans, recovery of ioan charges,
and construction supervision would also be the responsibility of SEIMAD.
SEIMAD would recover housing loans from beneficiaries at 12 percent over
15 years, including 1 year of grace. The 2 percent spread of repayments
over the subsidiary loan obligations of 10 percent should provide an
adequate reserve against arrears. A Guaranty Fund equal to 10 percent
of repayments of principal and interest would however be established to
supplement the 2 percent risk allowance. This Government grant of
FMG 6 million would be a callable reserve, transferable to SEIMAD and
non-recoverable in the event of use. A 14 percent markup on sales of
materials to loan recipients would cover SEIMAD's administrative overheads.
59.      CENAM.  The three production units (brick and tile plant,
carpentry workshop, and toolmaking workshop) would be established as
cooperatives with a manager and treasurer, assisted by CENAM technicians.
Studies undertaken during preparation show satisfactory market prospects
for each production unit. Engineering advisers specializing in each
product will be hired on a short-term basis to update these marketing
studies prior to the start of operations, and again, if required, after
full production is reached. SEIMAD would form small contractors into
16 teams to carry out smaller civil works such as washing stations,
concrete solid waste bins, and improvements at the Isotry Market. An
employment unit chief responsible to the CENAM Director General would
coordinate activities of the production units. Designation of a unit chief
with qualifications satisfactory to IDA would occur no later than December
31, 1984 (Section 3.04, draft CENAM Project Agreement). The unit chief
would rely on CENAM divisions, notably those of accounting, product
studies, marketing, and testing workshops, for specialized help. An
engineer would advise the unit chief for a period of three years. The
products engineers would participate on a periodic basis, mostly during
during formation and startup of the production units. Transfer to CENAM of
land needed for the brickmaking, carpentry and toolmaking cooperatives
would be conditions of disbursement for the respective sub-components
(Schedule 1, para. 4 (e) (f) and (g), draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Use of loan proceeds by production units would be monitored
directly by CENAM. Records of loan approvals and repayments would
however be kept by the Rural Development Bank (BTM), which has good
experience in records management. CENAM advisers and staff would ensure
that loans are repaid on time, since further financing would be jeopardized



- 18 -
in the event of arrears. For this reason and because artisan credits are
generally recovered more readily when artisans work together at one
location rather than individually around the city, recovery of amounts
lent to the production units is not expected to pose major problems.
61.       Training.  The staff of both municipalities have good job
experience but little formal training. Priority will therefore be given to
upgrading of technical skills in sanitation, maintenance of infrastructure,
and accounting, together with training to reduce the acute shortage of
middle-level managers. The traffic engineer responsible for BCT would
furthermore observe the operations of an applied studies unit, city traffic
bureau, and public transport corporation abroad for a period of three
months. The program, amounting to nearly 1,000 staff-months of training,
would consist primarily of sessions regularly offered by three Malagasy
training institutions: the Public Works Training School (CATP), National
Promotion and Training Institute (INPF), and Accountancy Training Center
(CFC). These training agencies are equipped to handle a program of this
magnitude. As agreed and negotiated a final training program would be
submitted by March 31, 1985 (Section 3.09, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$18.0 million,
including taxes and duties amounting to US$2.9 million. The foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$8.9 million, or 59 percent of the
total project cost, net of taxes and duties, of US$15.1 million. The
proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12.1 million (US$12.8 million equivalent) would
finance 85 percent of the total project cost net of taxes and duties,
including all foreign costs and 43 percent of local costs. The Government
would provide funds to meet the remaining local costs estimated at
US$2.3 million equivalent excluding taxes and duties of US$2.9 million.
A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
63.       Costs have been estimated at December 1983 prices and have been
derived from feasibility studies and contracts for similar activities.
The full cost of land acquisition (US$ 0.7 million) for a total of 67 ha in
Toamasina is included as part of the Government's contribution to the
project. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 15 percent for
building materials and toolmaking workshops, 10 percent for upgrading civil
works, and 10 percent for equipment. No physical contingencies were
allowed for technical assistance, studies, or house construction loans.
Price increases for local costs were calculated on the basis of expected
increases of 15 percent in 1984 and 10 percent thereafter. Price
contingencies on the foreign component were based on anticipated inflation
of 7.5 percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985, and 6 percent thereafter.
Financial Arrangements
64.       On-lending arrangements.  About US$5.9 million equivalent of
project funds would be relent to the Municipality of Antananarivo and
US$3.2 million to the Municipality of Toamasina. Funds for civil works
would be relent at 10 percent interest per annum with a repayment period



- 19 -
of 18 years including three years of grace. Terms of the funds lent for
municipal technical services, revenue generation, financial management, and
traffic management would be 10 percent for 7 years including two years of
grace. In addition, the Government would relend US$0.8 million of the IDA
Credit to SEIMAD for house construction and sanitation loans at Isotry and
Toamasina, at 10 percent interest per annum over 18 years including three
years' grace. Another US$0.6 million would be relent to CENAM for the
building materials production units and repaid by CENAM at 10 percent over
12 years including two years' grace. Finally, the Government would make
available US$7.5 million in the form of grants for components whose costs
would not be recovered. This includes community facilities at Isotry and
Toamasina, the Traffic Management Unit, and technical assistance, studies
and project management.
65.       Signature of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government
and implementation agencies is a condition of effectiveness of the credit
(Section 6.01 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement). Repayments of the
subsidiary loans and of the CENAM line of credit would be deposited into a
special account that would constitute an Infrastructure Fund for Urban
Housing. The Fund would be established by December 31, 1985 (Section 3.06,
draft Development Credit Agreement). It would constitute a permanent
source of funds for loans to the local Governments for maintenance or
extension of drainage, sanitation, and other urban infrastructure.
66.       Cost Recovery.  On-site infrastructure costs in upgrading areas
would be recovered directly through a surcharge to be levied on residents.
Creation by the two municipalities concerned of surcharges based on
property rental values and linked to the specific upgrading investments
would be conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01 (b)
and (c), draft Development Credit Agreement). Loans for the improvement of
housing and for the cooperative workshops would also be recovered directly
through loan repayments by the beneficiaries. Costs to be recovered
directly account for 22 percent of total project costs. A further
41 percent of project costs, relating to the strengthening of municipal
revenue generation and financial management, tax collection in Toamasina,
improvement of municipal technical services, off-site upgrading works, and
traffic management schemes in Antananarivo, would be recovered indirectly
through the property taxes payable by the population of each city.
Indirect as well as direct recovery would be closely monitored by BPU.
67.       Together, direct and indirect recovery account for 63 percent
of total project costs. The balance of 37 percent concerns community
facilities in the upgrading areas, land acquisition in Toamasina,
assistance to CENAM and BCT, project management, studies and technical
assistance. The costs of these elements are not considered to be
recoverable and would be absorbed by the national Government. Although
it is customary to recover land acquisition costs from beneficiaries, the
cost of land in Toamasina is actually a reserve against possible claims
for indemnification arising from the original expropriation and transfer to
public ownership during the mid-1970s. This item therefore appears as a
counterpart contribution, but one whose recovery from the present settlers
of the area would not be justified. Land acquisition at Isotry is included
in on-site and off-site infrastructure costs recovered through surcharges
and property taxes.



- 20 -
68.       Financial Impact.  Cash flow projections for the Antananarivo
municipality indicate a positive balance in each year after taking account
of the repayment of the subsidiary loans under the project, a substantial
increase in the expenditure of the municipal technical services
departments, and payment of annual charges to JIRAMA for water and
electricity consumption. Arreas of the Antananarivo municipality towards
JIRAMA, estimated at about US$3.0 million, would be paid by the Government
in an effort to reduce all arrears owed to JIRAMA to a maximum of three
months' billing by the end of 1985. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Antananarivo municipality beginning in 1986 would
have no more than three months' equivalent of water and electricity bills
outstanding (Section 3.04, draft Project Agreement with the Municipality of
Antananarivo). The cash flow for Toamasina indicates that it will remain
in surplus if early increases in income are achieved and surpluses
generated at the beginning of the project are carried forward to finance
annual deficits that will arise in the years 1989-1992 when loan repayments
on the project are at a peak. Surpluses would be deposited into a Special
Account (compte d'affectation spgcial) for use in covering subsequent
deficits.
Procurement
69.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Not        Total
Plroject Element             LCB     LCB1/    Other2/   Applicable3/  Cost
Civil Works                  3.9     0.9        0.75          0.6        6.15
(3.1)   (0.7)      (0.5)         (0.0)      (4.3)
Equipment and vehicles       4.7                                         4.7
(3.0)                                       (3.0)
Tools, materials, and                0.5        0.35                     0.85
office supplies                    (0.4)      (0.2)                    (0.6)
Housing and sanitation                          0.4                      0.4
loans                                         (0.3)                    (0.3)
Incremental operating                           0.7           0.45       1.15
expenses                                      (0.6)         (0.3)      (0.9)
Consulting services                  0.1        4.5                      4.6
and training                       (0.08)    (3.47)                    (3.55)
PPF advance                                                   0.15       0.15
(0.15)    (0.15)
TOTAL                        8.6      1.5       6.7           1.2       18.0
(6.1)   (1.18)    (5.07)         (0.45)   (12.8)
Note:  Amounts are in US$ million and figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by IDA.
1/ "Local unrestricted bidding" (Appel d'offres ouvert local)
2/ Force account, direct purchase and hiring of consultants
3/ Includes incremental operating costs and salaries, and refinancing of
PPF advance



- 21 -
70.       Civil works for rehabilitation of streets and drainage
networks in Isotry (US$2.9 million, including contingencies) and Toamasina
(US$1 million) would be carried out by contractors after procurement
through international competitive bidding (ICB). Because the works are
relatively simple, prequalification of contractors would not be required.
Contracts for traffic management works, buildings for the production units,
and the sewerage network at Isotry (US$900,000 total) would be awarded
through local competitive bidding acceptable to IDA in which foreign firms
are eligible to participate. Additional minor civil works totalling
US$250,000 that are not likely to interest foreign bidders (washing points,
pedestals for water standpipes, and solid waste containers) would be
undertaken following satisfactory local shopping procedures by artisans and
small contractors supervised by SEIMAD. Because of its experience, JIRAMA
is capable of installing water and electricity networks economically on a
force account basis. Qualified domestic civil works contractors would be
allowed a preferential margin of 71 percent over the bid price of competing
foreign contractors.
71.       Heavy equipment, computer hardware, and vehicles would be grouped
wherever possible into lots of at least US$50,000 and would be procured
through ICB. Miscellaneous items of equipment, materials, spare parts, and
supplies in lots of less than US$50,000 and not exceeding a total of
US$350,000 may be procured from dealers on the basis of at least three
price quotations. All works contracts over US$100,000 each and equipment
contracts over US$50,000 each would be subject to prior IDA review. Other
contracts would be subject to selective post-award review. Consultants for
training and technical assistance would be selected in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
72.       In order to shorten delays and to streamline the procurement
process, the following measures, on which assurances were obtained at
negotiations, would be applied: (a) the Project Director would be
represented on all Bid Evaluation Committee meetings; and (b) the
executing agencies would react to a bid evaluation report by issuing a
Decision within ten days of its receipt.
Disbursement
73.       The schedule of estimated disbursements given in the Credit
and Project Summary is based on a six-year implementation period, plus
18 months to hand over BPU operations to permanent agencies and close
out disbursements. A handing-over period of 18 months is justified
primarily by the need to plan successor activities carefully and secure
commitments from implementing agencies. The Association will disburse
against: (a) 80 percent of total expenditures for upgrading civil works;
(b) 100 percent of total expenditures for imported equipment, vehicles,
and materials; (c) 70 percent of total expenditures for locally procured
equipment, vehicles, and materials; (d) 85 percent of total expenditures
for civil works, employment and traffic management; (e) 85 percent of
total expenditures for housing and sanitation loans; (f) 100 percent of
foreign and 80 percent of local expenditures for operating costs and
salaries of implementing agencies; (g) 100 percent of foreign and
50 percent of local expenditures for consultant and advisory services; and
(h) 100 percent reimbursement of the Project Preparation Facility advances.



- 22 -
74.       To ensure prompt availability of funds at the start of the
project, IDA and the Government would each make initial deposits. As a
condition of effectiveness, Government counterpart funds totalling
FMG 150 million, mainly to finance land acquisition, would be deposited
in the Project Account (Section 6.01 (d), draft Development Credit
Agreement). All project expenditures would be subject to prior
authorization of BPU. Largely to enable the BPU to pay suppliers
without delay in the months following effectiveness, a separate Special
Account (Revolving Fund) to which IDA would pay in US$500,000 would
also be set up at the Central Bank. The account's opening balance was
calculated as the equivalent of three months of the IDA share of eligible
expenditures in foreign currency, plus a 20 percent margin. Eligible
expenditures do not include purchase of vehicles and equipment for
technical services departments, for which the Government (through BPU)
is expected to request that suppliers be paid directly. Establishment
of the Special Account is a condition of effectiveness of the credit
(Section 6.01 (d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Reports and Auditing
75.       Separate project accounts would be maintained by each executing
agency; consolidated accounts would be kept by BPU which would prepare
quarterly progress reports to be sent to the Association. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that a cost accounting system would be
operational by July 1, 1985 (Section 4.01 (a) (ii), draft Development
Credit Agreement). These financial statements would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and would be submitted
to the Association no later than eight months after the end of the
Government fiscal year (Section 4.01 (c) (ii), draft Development Credit
Agreement). Terms of reference of the first audit, of 1984 accounts, would
be broadened to include (i) guidance to BPU on the establishment of cost
accounting systems; and (ii) a separate analysis of use of IDA funds under
the Special Account.
Benefits and Risks
76.       The project will have direct, immediate benefits for specific
groups as well as wider, longer-range impacts on the economy as a whole.
Value added and employment would be generated for about 750 people
including members of the three building materials cooperatives, small
contractors, and sidewalk merchants at the Isotry Market, and close to
1,000 artisans and contractors likely to be hired under loans for
sanitation and house construction. By the end of the project, living
conditions will have improved, often dramatically, for 65,000 residents of
upgrading districts plus 60,000 daily users of the 5 intersections in
Antananarivo. This project would also increase the effectiveness of public
investment by ensuring a more dependable supply of urban services to the
economy. Demonstrations of the viability of upgrading are critical
elements in this respect, especially as Isotry has come to be a national
symbol of a seemingly inevitable decline in the quality of the living and
working environment.



- 23 -
77.       Impacts on the national budget will be felt in two ways.  First,
the savings in foreign exchange through production of local building
materials will make a small contribution to lessening the acute shortage of
foreign exchange which continues to dominate economic developments in
Madagascar. Second and more important, increasing the real resources in
the hands of city governments will relieve pressure on the public
investment program, which cannot now meet even the most urgent priorities
in the social sectors. Strengthening of financial and managerial capacity
will extend beyond the two municipalities to CENAM and SEIMAD, increasing
their ability to design and carry out national programs. Success in
operating the production units would inspire more confidence in CENAM as
the leading edge of Government policy to create productive employment.
SEIMAD would gain experience with upgrading in two contrasting urban
environments.
78.       Economic rate of return calculations show an overall rate of
return of 17 percent for components representing 83 percent of total
project cost (less price contingencies): municipal technical services,
upgrading, employment, and traffic management improvements, including the
technical assistance required for their implementation. Sensitivity
analyses show that the overall rate of returm did not fall below 14 percent
if costs increased by 10 percent, benefits decreased by 10 percent or
benefits were delayed by one year. It would be 13 percent if both costs
increased and benefits decreased by 10 percent.
79.       The project's major risks are that the executing agencies may
delay project implementation because of inexperience in execution of
programs on a sustained basis, that land acquisition may prove more complex
than anticipated, and that the pace of recovery of project costs would be
sluggish. To minimize these risks, major emphasis has been placed on
institutional development by providing resources for technical assistance,
training and studies, as well as centralized coordination by BPU.
Resources are furthermore provided to improve the assessment and collection
of municipal taxes. On the whole, the project presents an acceptable level
of risk, considering the benefits which would be achieved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Municipality of Antananarivo, the draft
Project Agreement between the Association and the Municipality of
Toamasina, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and CENAM,
the draft Project Agreement betwen the Association and SEIMAD, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section (d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
81.       Special conditions to the Credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed Credit are:  (a)  Signature of subsidiary loan agreements
between the Government and implementing agencies; (b) Creation by



- 24 -
Antananarivo and Toamasina of surcharges to recover a portion of upgrading
costs at project sites; (c) Establishment at the Central Bank of a Special
Account to receive an IDA deposit of US$500,000; (d) Initial deposit by
the Government of FMG 150 million into the Project Account; (e) Signature
of implementation and management agreements as indicated in para. 56.
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
May 24, 1984



- 25 -
ANNEX I
*, r     f of
MADAGASCAR              - SOCIAL INSUlCATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGilTED AVERAGLS) /a
MOST                       (tMOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/jb       olbRECENT  lb              LOW INCOME             NlIDDLE INCOME
1 9 60ll-b  1970_/-b  ESTIE1ATE-    AFRICA S. OF SAAARA      AFKICA S. OF SA,iARA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. 1X)
TOTAL                                587.0       587.0        587.0
AGRICULTURAL                         367.7       363.7        370.0
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    140.0       200.0        330.0              254.6                     1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL LQUIVALE,4T)       40.0        85.0         74.0               79.8                      724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS      5474.0      6785.0      8969.0
URBAN POPULATION (1 OF TOTAL)         10.6        14.1         18.9               19.5                       28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (1ILL)                              16.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                54.4
YEAR STATIONARY POe. REACHED                              2140
POPULATION DESNSITY
PLR SQ. Kr.                          9.3        11.6         14.8               29.5                       56.5
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              14.9        18.7        23.6                94.1                      131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                           41.6        42.d        43.8                45.0                       45.9
15-64 YRS                           55.2        53.9        52.9                52.1                       5L.2
65 AND ABOVE                         3.2         3.3         3.3                 2.9                        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                1.8         2.1         2.5/c               2.8                        2.8
URBAN                                4.9         5.0         5.2                 6.2                        5.3
CRUDE 8IRTH RATE (PER TROUS)          46.7        45.2         46.7               47.9                       47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          26.6        21.9         17.9               19.2                       15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         3.0          3.2                3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         d9.0       102.0        94.0                87.8                       95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)       100.0       106.0        109.0               S8.0                       97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            57.0        59.0        58.0                51.2                       56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0        17.0        15.0/d              18.1                       17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           21.1        15.7        10.7                25.7                       23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTHI (YEARS)        37.2        42.2        47.5                47.4                       51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        108.9        89.2        69.5               126.5                      117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..        11.0        25.01e              24.7                       25.4
URBAN                                 ..        67.0        76.07e              56.8                       70.5
RURAL                                 .          1.0        14.07;W             18.3                       12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..           ..               28.1
URBAN                                 ..        88.0           ..               65.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..         9.0/e              21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            8900.0     10170.0     10170.0/f           27420.6                    12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             3110.O/    3350.0      3660.07W            3456.2                     2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              420.0       350.0       400.0/d            1183.2                     1075.4
URBAN                              150.01g     210.0       240.07W             380.6                      402.3
RURAL                              610.01L     480.0       520.07d            3177.5                     3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                            5.8         4.7/e
URBAN                                 ..         5.3         5./le
RURAL                                 ..         5.9         4. 777
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __- -_-- - - -_ __-- - - - - _- - _- _ _ _ __- - _-- - - _ _- - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __- -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- 26 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                          PAGE 2 of  5
MADAGASCAR               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Is
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960/L      1970-L  ESTIMATE-        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJISTED ENROLLMEN'T RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    52.0         88.0       100.0/f              63.9                        97.2
MALE                     58.0        95.0           ..                73.6                       103.1
FEMALE                   45.0        81.0            .                51.6                        88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     4.0         11.0        12.0/e              12.5                        17.2
MALE                      5.0         13.0        14.071              16.7                        23.5
FEMALE                    3.0         9.0         1O.o7e               8.1                       14.2
VOCATIONAL (Y OF SECONDARY)            9.1          8.7           . .                7.3                        5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             70.0         65.0        55.0/f              46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0          ..                25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  ..        39.0        50.0/d               36.5                       37.1
CONSUKPTION
PASSEMGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            4.0          6.8         7.1/d                3.3                       18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP          15.0         79.7       195.1                45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..           0.5          5.2                 2.2                       18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               7.7          7.8         9.0/h               4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        0.5          0.7         0.47W               1.0                         0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           3046.0       3620.0      4527.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.9        46.1         44.5                34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               93.0         90.0        87.0                76.9                        56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          3.0         4.0                 9.8                       17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               55.6         53.4        50.5                40.9                        37.0
MALE                                60.7         58.8        56.1                53.0                       47.1
FEMALE                              50.9        48.2         44.9                28.9                       27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8          0.9         0.9                 1.2                         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            41.0/i         ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           60. 17         ...
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             5.271         .
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.071         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..       150.0/d             165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        86.07               87.4                      255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INC0ME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-           *-       135.0/d             100.8                      491.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..        86.071              64.6                      188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        50.0/d              39.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..        50.07               69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Recent population growth estimate is 2.8% for 1975-79; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1978; IR 1962; /h 1974; /i Population.
May 1983



- 27-                                                                                 ANE  I
DEFIRITIOltS OF WCIAL lND.LA11*a
N00001  1.1t04h t0. 40t. or. d-a  tr..ro       ooo 30-0511  jodgo  th000 -S        tt oth.0t-1,0 00d rolO1b., it Ihoold .1- 0. -otd th.0 00.7 -y oat 0.lorn t.a
-o.SoOo,lo btcoos  of th. l1ok of  M.,0di..oo  dofl.ltlo.ooad c-ocpto u..d by' 410fotont  toooo   aolonn    h. 4.0.7.. Th.0. 0S0, oon,otoloo  Wooofo  to
d-ocib. 014.-  of oano ,indl..to  tren., .04 oho-wio.te ortoio  -oJo  difforoS_o  bt.0.oooaOl
Th.  S.ooo   ...op  or. (1) th.0 05    000 OS-   o   tb..t.to 0)1  ootoy .0d (2) 0 0000t07 St00,  t100 Oo0h0  hig.,31  010000, 000.. t10ch. toOsry £nap Sf 01.
.oOooOen.r    .ooro for  1:   ooo       il 01  1boo.  " poop Ahore "10d410 loon. North ndrLes and 01d441  F4.0L  00 h1.-0. M0r00  of  t100030  oot-oo-Ion
of ftotlo.).to Obo r.fea     -pSo..p40  th,, 0105..0S.  -00 ppttoo n.10ht0   rt        l  mote, forSSIN0L  Ioflt_  .AM  h.-0 only  1.0. aJorlOy of CM. oafbntao   0i;
froo  h,00 dots for 0th0ldtotr          I.,0 00. 0000105  of 0-t011.0 0-00  ot. 00d0:... dapood. -o ch.o .rIlobtlliy of dul  04 l* 000 milo0,, 0.ti000 w0.t be
-,t.oeld In .lOo   .0         ..3 of o   0,'o.a   to aoOr.  Tho.  ...r.p. are only nofo1 to  -p..1100 tho nato  of to  I:lofoo t.0 StS00..Se 00. oootry ..W
1.50k (thosoond eq.o,%a90loo0I10hllf4ay - %Pooliotto  dOi,dad by .-bSI of   Sa001010
Totl .705  osrf.o. ao  oopO.lo    d  -00.04  .10100  -ter.; 110                              .Li.           S' J0OitfOiOO P ..   I1   0.1alenrtt    ot
I .0d f950 dol.                                                                             ?tlotnn   Nr. O..I               -Pop.Lloto  4d00404 by o.r* of p00.t00005
AliI. - 34-0.8. of*roloo    oooo. srrl  o   ownol                                            e S.004 f     Iat  g-ods0   tr.   o.I.t101000     S 0000. sat.01  rs.s s0d
et"ro.. sOrkean  kIro    d00400  or t01.  fstoo  19600.nrtlontot.
1970 and 1950 d400.                                                                           5015100L 0  aelnIo30    00.1. -ob... .04   ".I0  - P0o100100 (t.0.1,
orb... S0 ora ..   41 1 10404' by  0.0R  roooIn  o     ao f booskOt.  00."
G55 00AldfIT  0U  ) - GNP P., 005110  0             a -.000  0    k00 SOr.  orio...                  ...0011.01. 0701   0 pb     10.1  lacrd  .-  4 osnod    .   b ..pitAa .
e .Iohti6.d ooboy    eeoto   d.80 .0 an - 013 took kMl.. 11979-01 0.01.):                        rofb,I1.11ntLn 00010...  M. sltlo. r-.OoIl1bOto  Poo.--ell -o.ffnd
L960, f970, .04 ff51 40t0.                                                                        by at loI  Oa -   phy0100-   E-obli           SP`no  500140g pi-t.opny o._IdsSL
oar. Or.' 001100dd0.  fo-1 hoopoit.l. to_r. 1.810d. 00.111.a0
000015 100011457100 P00 CAPITA   A 500.1Ioo.-oo  oO.ooP'ion of oootal.01.1 00t... -ot p - cInoty oaSffd0 by S p1.y.tia  (bWo by aS00
yri.1  oag   P0.   n   100. yootb.  0001 !50S-dand 074,-.touol.or                                 a.010.    nor...--    M.14.1, St0).1.10 ofh  for In-pa.a10   . . .So.  tt.  00d
and  toho.-l .lo-tri.ity) to kilsor-m   foo   ~1s1n    .   ol                                   pr-oldo  ai 0     .104rog  of ..di.al fooItOis.i    Vor Sta01nal-  p00p0.0
196.0, 1970, .04 1980 datb.                                                                       orban hopltl  lo nloa WHO0. prtootp.1/p-000   OoplO.l., .0d  -Ira
00ptt-I. lnsl or or-l ho..plnol  Sod .0410.  04  -t-ooity o00-..
POP1ULATON A.50 1VT1L STATIST111                                                                     SI0001100  hooplt.l. 00  100140  only 0.,.  1t.00.
Moa   onaln   11-or(bos4)- A.. If J.1y 1; 1900, 1970, .0d 190L                         S..000  00000 t1.I 004 - 70.1 no0,of a4.10l-o  to or dt1-hrag-
4000.                                                             f row booplOal. 4110404 ~~~~~~~~~~by lb. o.b..   Of b04..
41 10004000000  fot.        am ... ytif   tl oop-rbility of dota                      HOUSING
Pow11.t.I0.o Sr00 2         CuIrSt p0501*01- poJfbtom" ore 00004 00 1f0                         and 10        10.0   -..1.  A b..rdror 00 1450  .0y -0  0y 0.t 0. I-etnde  0
t.    .rloby S0 S.04   0.00,4     wnalnty 004 fac00110y                              h00 h-hwo4 for Oot.tiat.l p005p0n0.
10000.  510)000100   re-t.r, for  -o'.    y rot. 00rO.ofOro                                  4.000t of tforoo50  lon-  001.ors  and rura   ..oog IM                         0
10001  smn.q  11.005 t0000  at 00r0h 00I0.-00  0000 00000ty'. pr                         f500050eo.talorn, ...rna   ctp I :: mP.0.to
01.000.001  Sod 0..0.1010 IL.              t.blly nto .11 g0   a 77.5)              40 L.1000, 000.p0..l-y.  D-0I.1105  .000.4  00-500ap       0   or0..t
Y-r.  71.0 p.-I.I.r for foacility rt, St- bo.- 1th0  1-11.                                    soonptnd 55000.
.0.000   1nli   In f.rtLltly ....rdJogt 00 0000.0 1 L0 ad 500  f..oty                  00000  00 llI-tri.il  (pp.... t of d001110.) - 000.1. orb-...d.0  r.0    -
ol.oniegfprfot.o o.  0Erh.00 000010   t1. bo0.0..0p4  -  of t01..0000.                        C.-ontol- d-IllIqo 000h  L.ooorOoty A. Iln,ig qoooO.0  03 P.--000
obIOoOn   of"0".11t7 004 fernilOly 00-0. for p,.Jnotoa porsom.                              of t01.1. orb.., 004 rorol dtoeILos. ospoti-ly.
Scat0=0? 000015000  - I00  S 01ai-00y p5l51.10  t0.c. L. 00 groth
St00  10 h.1b.0b  c.0 0. 09.1 t0 t0. d40.11 S.00. 004  I-0 th0 - 00ZCIONO
0100t.0rfI =oo- ThI10..to nOho-d only aft-r fatolOfty 0It.0.!F-dE11.  t
40100.0.     0  oroo.-too    10.of       It01  000 roprodootLo   rtb, ofte                    hrmryotrol -  ool. -1. oaf I n . - Cr0.  00.1a, .01, 0d0 f..a1
nob S.-roloo, of  -ea   rptac. J1.01f S . . ly.  Th. stalloosY                                  .noOI.o    o "' i)- St 0  0  000 '   t rsay .  !00 50000coatsa     St o..Peant
p050100t00.S00 00    ti00-t0  on tb.  0..1, of 00. p00.J004 0000000-                            Oriwoy.0.1-5   50501000000  000-011  0010400 oflOdno  Sam 6-li
1.1.oo   0   00 .00 10 Itto yosr 2000. ond tb. rono of 4d-bi  of                              70000 boo .4)01d for diff-1000  100301.0 of po1Jay dnotof.; fo-
0f1001007000  0  opacon  1-1,0.                                                                  -00000.00. fr    ineral ndorioo .onl..t nay .0000  10o fe'"
b- ar .Oolo y ooo tbolsnlo  is roch   - The Yoa  0OOo ototi-.ry                                   0000  0.0. pp501.00. 0010  or 00.1  000 off01.1 oobool MP.
5050101100 So m  .110   .oo.                                                                      n0ar00 Sd to-j-I001  0.0   10.01. S- C0po0. 000.01o..n
-aSo    01d--r. pop1.00 I       I0 oqsr. kilot-- (1000.00) 00                               P.-Id.o Sanoro, _.00000.1  00          'nb.o 10.000300 w -Onfo
i it.r.   190,170, 0d I90  .0..                                                                505110 -.oIlly of 12 t. 17 7*50 IO f 050;  -n.ood.no  00rs00 0.
PIoq on - SR. o.toOr_l land C- 1o t000  0..0'0"'  foo0rtool "ro   100                             -orly0.14.
o ly1960, 1070 and 190d0.t.                                                              1V.00t01 .,-.01-nt (pr tn ofmondr)  - tV o a.lOo  twotOotlo.
50.So.010  t,0. 00.1r. (000)- Child-10  (0.14 ynr.), oOrfdng-05  (IS-                             inodo  " I0.. 0, Indo          :f_ 0   010  Pro.-003.0  0500001.045006
.O Yoa.), 004 I .00rd ~65 7. .04 0-or) a. 5000.000500 of 014-y-.                                .0007 orts  45t0.0. of ...oary 000011000.0
50501801001 1900, 1970. .0d 1981 400..                                                        SorIl-toO-00  rotlo - Er00.y. .0d .0040 L ;.T0  0td04.0                     to.1040
MonanloG- 000 t0.1  (InreO             t 01.  - ko-1s $roh r-no  of t0.1 nOd-                     prior   tf0.040    oo.4,4y                 nl= .oI-L  of  L00  .0 t3.0.oe
700  051a1100 for 1950-6.0. 1960-70. .04 1970-81.                                            rooPooln  1,0
P000000100!- 000000  CoorOot -  100 -  o1 srowb r.too of orban                                  0do1t Iloot   ,r                                          IS000)-  .010  000   al   Io oa  Ao  .01.) 0
Lam.00  1015-0  16-0  0417-l                                                                    S0005  of lota I         .l  pp0t01.10 050  15 y-.r   .d4n..
Cr-0000   .0(00Oonod   040001  11  0000  p00 th-0.0d of .14-
1r.d. 0.00   01th   o00o.4  - AS.nnI d0.100 pr 00h.-.4 of .1d-y-rPm.o.A.. Cs. SOar 0000000  n1o-Laoo) - Poom - r 0                                           ..*00  cobO oco.0
5050101100; 196.0, 1970, Sod 1981 d0.n.                                                         000  0.105bo I..0 0131gc .0   ""00; ooolofo  ..0.1oom   00..0  a
01,9.rndoction 3R. - A .0.0.  no.i00brof doqOor. oo..       0 P 111 D.00 1n                     t.1110.hivOtl..1
h.     -1 -P7.Ctt0l.n    p.00 Idfh. np-rlO.0   00-0  .5-0-001100                              dL.0R 0.010. I-(S, t000000  0.Ltl.000) - ALI sYa. of ISSISo-  f n    1.6.
f.0111it7 00000; o.ooly fOon-y..r  . oor.S.. ..dlg 1n 19O, L970. .040040000 broSda                         rI    "       5001.10 p.r o- 000 .0of 505010000; ..rtdo.
191.                                                                                                               IStood0coor  1 -oSoood 0     W_y.o  fo  rq05.t'o.O.n of _d.
50.1,51.0?I1it  - 100,0 .. 0.0   (tm..00d.) - *.-Io .-b.. of soloptor.                            moowo  100000; 4.0. for 00000  yo.r  sy 001 00                       &J501.0 0.SR  eat
of   .4rn -o01o d4.010  onr  o.-po.-  of0     _1o.  fo_ly slnlo                              ooOtn5.1004  10010
P130.7   nonros                                                                               (,no t0.0.d0  pp.00Oi..) - TV-1 to.v o. 0  bro.SS n4 W0
F-=.U P.1.ntloo1-Oo Ull(.ooenof01004o.n   501.0000 00.o d1S ....001 pb1.10  ""1 00.omd 50501.0001 ontod. raol -ead TV OoaO-O
on..  00  Oll-0o.inf000  15-4  7.0.)  ttod b 100-rotol, 4d-7-  0.0                    10   -riOfO..nd I0 70.-  00.0  S.010-0100  of 7TmV          e   On .1 ..
.lf w.rrlod e  i            gooe  n  nor..p                                                   0.0..   fOf00   p.   bosdrplon) - 00.00"0  "n.r".
104.0 of Food Poodoft%oopIne Cprlt  (:969-71.10A)  -..000  50opit,                                Po1bl-t.llo   -t01d pli.. ily17 0  0-000410  30-,rI 0-,       It 100 o i..0daw
000g00  1000004 of .ooor) h1.1h  -r  dL01.1.0 od        tlooorlnO  (.g                          lc t old dorIng 10. 7000. bi1dI1g   dio..roo  t drIv-In obes  ..
00..040  000a10005  00.I prOon -lght.; I91-.1  170  d04 190
Phr carlt. S0. 1y of olro   (p:t.00         of rnlr CoO)-ptd500  foon                           t0.10   r0100     (r0.-d0.) - Eon.-k.11y -.l?. S00.00,0.113..4
oneog,y nqolvol.nnof not food sPP ..  .. t .. .nli     ..n t0ry1  00 0..PI. P0t                 00.0.... So   wPlynd botconoldlag    inl.   bdSSSSof  *  n... oonOob
doy.    .11010.0 .11.00.5110  dm00110 prodotoO"oO, 1.00  1000                                   50500000 oi  f .1I&m    0fo1000t firtot.  n,f-i           to  o. .01
m5-0rlb. ."400g   1. 1   0.  005 11ppl0 00104  000001 fond. -od..                                -p-5r.bl.; 191.0. 197  .049 190  dos
qoSaIIISO.o    d ID food, yooolg,ad 10.. to d400 b11..lo.                                       S           I_,01  00001 foro  m  50000003  04 total. 000. f-oo
OoqnleanO  001  0.1.0t0  by FAG90 0..04 00 5p70001051001  -nd  for --l0                    A    "j0jt"o.  o..n)   000.0 foon 10 0-.0.a. for.ooy. 00.010  and
sollioity S      I -0011 idnO4ri.g .-Ioo.I.m11tOl 1.501t-0  body mIgh:t..                         0101.10  00 p.-Ig.0 of 101.1 lobo  Fore.; 196.0, 1970 .d4 1960   u.0.
*0   n   o   i.trib.tlo. of 505010010, 004 .1100103 10 5010000  IoF00                    1401  (p0.-t0) - 000.  for-  to .100                t 00 t0.o10,fooOl
so 0000.14lovo; 101-5.  9)0 .0d 19510 dIs.                                                .M-ootloly         000.04 300 00 5013003  St ta.01 00b.r fmon; 1560.
For .0,00. .opl, of pronln (pro.. o0  _07  - P000.00 .00000  of PSI 005100                1970 004 1981 d0...
001 .opply of fond Pr doy.  0N1 bpl  oflfond 1. 4001004 SS oboe.P. 501000100 .1  (.0-000     -  -.1. .0.040.. - SoOlOolsoto. M0
009000.00.for 11  000t10  mlobli.h,d by US00A p-01d  for 1.0..                             It0.0  0.t 0  or   mpod 00 otTai5             .0!    o Oo fIt a
.11-.00 oS        Sr51.    III000  procl.i p.r dy Sod 20 Sr00  of .001  0,1 .00a0030  f  001.  oso .   `n.al   500.100*1 0500 00050001,01
5100 sroooln, of 10,0 10 gr..  h.0d1 0. 01.1 5000000 .  Th.0.                                   19.0 970. ad 1960 4.0..  70.00 ... 00.4 -  I10'. p-riol.01p n bl
oSt.   a00  00 1.0.. 0h... of 75 R-00  of toaI PrO.l.l .0d 23 fla,                              r.f0_t0ISM 0.&-mo olroo . of t00  So.lol ol 0  10.. ti- t-..  A
of onloo  protein0.05050fr0.01.500407F0010fo    t10sr  fIn.  011-tt                                                               Ooroo.
101h04j W-.11  Food 00S.7; 11-65 ,1970 .od 1980 401..                                          0000010 D.nond.ooe    ti- - 0t.01  of 500.0100 o. d., 0) o04 65 .  d           t
500. t.0 ortIn    oy finn .0.   Sod p.1.  - P000010 .opply of fond                             00t'   .  obrtr.
4010004 fIn. So.1   0451 1         0  0.s 500 fr.y; 1961-65, 1970 .04 1977
C0114 (0.R.  1-0) D..th 0.0  (p.r tbonoond) - AO.al 40000. por tho.-0d 10tioi~'oo    t 00.  (                                         L'0 10 ,h0 Sol 010) - 30001,04 by 110.0t 5
050 S00005 1-4 y-"r.  "o-hlId..o in t010  g30 S000p  foe poet d-nloping                        5000,01.120 pOrnn..h            ooro-t 20 P0o.-t, an  Poor-, 60 50000.00
0.0010 It  slot dorlod fon. 100. 00000.; 1960, 1970 Sod 198) d00..                             hoea0.1d..
501AL.I0                                                                                        P0V10071 t 7001070005
Ufl 000t0000, 01tlrl.t  (ynto.) -oos..omor of 7Y00  of 110.  - 0l0010                            SfTS.fl. fl0g Lotoooonoy   "pt"oI"'. .o -"O of  ov-Oty lonl."                 004
00S 0100;19600. 9O0 Sod 1931 4.00.                                                               00001d 00 tnalr,  lnd 0101,oo.foad bl. 00.&lo
00.000.1701   po00004,fOol400   f1001   no   0                                                   .100    bll  Inert, Ioce 00-0a (US1 p- t0010  -oraad 1.01 -
7.00of  50 51 100004 1,  100.; 1960, 197004 1901 4010.                                  00000pnrY O               10-,1 1.100lon. Ioo  boe. SAo   a olol
At0.0.0o  Sof .1.  (0t-    0   of 0.0010010) - tt10. 010.0. I0 10.1.                                orloal   4 0.  40.   S00000011 00-food r00r.1. -t
M..b.o of 'P,Sl.(101  orbs,             -1)oI  0100 -".00 b00.00000.00.000                       ff0.rdb.1.,
00-0S0101  (100104d0 Irr=od .ordfoc    -r.10  0- 00t0td boO                                   0-10000  01010i.0 Po,.rt7 I.000. 0..1 (us$ 00I 10Lt00) - .0.0d m-01 
000001004   or .-h . o  oo tht n.-  0.0.t0td 00000010,  p100.0., .0d                    R_.al  10100,  sp-,rty                 L.a oo   000-t.1r  of    _ZoOg  -pit50.
onory,.L) so p....ootos of 00.1r Inp-oli- o 505101000   P00                                  00  1000.0 of 00  0000.  lrbno.l 1S 40000  f-o  000 rura
ora  0.    501  1010        000 0 .0.0010  001.00t   0000 200 .00o                          1o.-I 0010 042t.t10    for 015000ro 0.1f I0 110  L. 0000.  -000
b.aoor  of 000 0h.=.14=do.1   .  t. S0On     di.,_pro         JoooSSt. 5000 of
01.0doy I0 f.toOhng th0 foilfy'. 001.   .04..
brurl -It I.0.  ofP   .1.(001  0050. ad rorol)  bernd  70.101
flop 0..015   000130of thi100-p00t00  p.polai-o   0000.0. 410p00.1
P"v  a  04. t1100  toOf Eatloo.                                                                                                          0.d Si19D03      ili.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
MADAGASCAR - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GRDSS NATIONAL PROUCr IN 1981
Annual Rage of Growth 1/
US$ Mln.    %            1975-79           1979-81
GNP at Market Prices           2,806.0    100.0            1.5            -3.5
Gross Domestic Investment        387.1      13.8           4.6           -20.5
Gross Damestic Saving             91.2       3.3         -17.5            -7.7
Current Accoumt Balance          351.4   -12.5              -               -
Exports of Goods, NFS            365.7      13.0          -7.3            -2.8
Imports of Goods, NFS            662.2     23.6            5.4           -12.6
OUTPUT LABOUR FORCE AND
PROLUCTVlY IN 1980
Value added 2/       Labour  Force 3/      VA Per Worker
US$ Mln.          %      '000         %      US$ Mln        %
Agriculture         1,178.9         36.1      4095       88.4       287.9    40.8
Industry              588.3         18.0      127         2.7     4,632.3    657.0
Services            1,331.3         40.8      357         7.7     3,729.1    528.6
Unallocated 4/        166.1          5.1       51         1.2     3,256.9    461.6
Total               3,264.6       1T00.0    4630        100).0    11,906.2   100.0
GOVERNPME  FICE
tentral Government
EMG Bln.                % of GDP
1981      1982          1981      1982
Ourrent Receipts           104.3    121.9           13.6      13.5
Current Expenditures       112.2   130.9            14.7      14.6
Current Deficit             -7.9    -9.0           -1.1       -1.1
Capital Expenditures        69.1     39.4           9.0        8.3
Foreign financing (net)     55.6    50.6             7.3       6.4
MDNEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
(Billion of FMG at the End of the Period)
Money and Qaasi Mbney                  140.8     172.9    205.8       249.8   275.2
Bark Credit to public sector           48.5      101.5     128.4      235.8    269.7
Bank Credit to state enterprises
and private sector                  102.0      130.6     158.4      163.8    196.2
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      28.9       29.1      29.8.      31.9     27.4
GDP Price Deflator (1970 = 100)       195.7      218.0    251.0       313.6   409.7
Anmual percentage changes in
Price Deflator                          6.8       11.4      15.1       24.9    30.6
Bark Credit to public sector           72.0      109.3      75.8       32.2     14.4
Bank Credit to State Enterprises
and private sector                  6.1      28.0       21.7        3.1     19.8
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Based on 1978 prices.
2 At market prices.
3/ Total labour force.
4/  Import duties.                                                     November 1983



- 29 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
MADAGASCAR - TRADE PAYMET AND CAPITAL FDJWS
BALANCE OF PAME                                    MERANISE FXOKlsS (AVERAGE 1977-80)
1980  1981   19821/                                US$ ln.    %
(US$ R[Moqlim
Coffee                        179.8      47.3
Vanilla                        26.8       7.0
Cloves                         49.5      13.0
Meat and neat products         13.0       3.4
Exports of Goods & N.F.S.  492.7  383.5  360.0  Fish arnd shellfish                16.2       4.3
Imports of Goods & N.F.S. 1,059.2  725.7  628.3  Sugar                              7.9       2.1
Petroleum products              8.2       2.2
Resource Balance          -566.5  -342.2  -268.3  Chronite                         10.6       2.8
Other cowidities               68.3      17.9
Total                   380.2     100.0
Investment Income          -37.9  -78.0  -93.4
Private Transfers, Net       0.9    8.5   10.3  EXTERAL DEB, DECM    31, 19822/
US$ Mn.
Current Account Balance   -603.4  -411.9  -351.4
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1,564.8
Direct Foreign Investment   -0.9   -0.7    -0.3  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt          -
Total Outstandirg & Disbursed    1,564.8
Net ME  Borrowing:         274.5  266.3    77.4
DEBT SERVIICE RATIO FOR 19823/
Disbursements             304.8  294.0   192.6
Airtization              -30.3  -67.7    115.2                                   %
Other Capital (net) 2/      127.4  203.2   268.0  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   35.04/
Change in Reserves         202.5  -16.9       6.3
(increase = -)                                   IBRD/IIA LENDT, March 31, 1984
US$ million
IBRD       IDA
RATE OF EXCHAN              1980   1981    1982
Outstamdirg &
US$1.00 = F                211.30  271.73  350.0     Disbursed                   29.50      231.36
FNr'   1 = US$            0.0047  0.0037  0.0029   Undishbrsed                              145.41
Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed                29.50      376.77
17 Provisional estimates fran the Central Bark of
Malagascar
2/ Includes SDR allocations, public transfers,
state and private short-term capital, and
errors and anissions                          3/ Debt service payments as % of exports of goods
and services
4/ After effects of debt reschedulirg arangenents
NoveTber 1983                                           under Paris Club



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984)1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                   Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
…    --(US$ Million)-----
Nine Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                             32.57   90.95        --
CR  641-MAG    1976 Madagascar Highways IV                        22.00      0.32
CR  663-MAG    1976 Madagascar Education II                        14.002/   1.16
CR  817/1-MAG  1978 Madagascar Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                   43.003/   6.10
CR  881-MAG    1979 Madagascar Mangoky - Agriculture              12.00      3.24
CR'  903-MAG    1979 Madagascar Railways II                       13.00      0.85
CFR  938-MAG    1979 Madagascar Highways V                        24.00      9.41
CR,  977-MAG    1980 Madagascar Industrial Bank - BNI              5.00      2.39
CR 1002-MAG    1980 Madagascar Water/Sanitation                   20.50    17.44
CR 1016-MAG    1980 Madagascar Petroleum Exploration              12.50      3.24
CR 1064-MAG    1981 Madagascar Agriculture Bank - BTM              11.50     8.26
CR 1086-MAG    1981 Madagascar Plain of Antananarivo T.A.          2.30      1.30
CR 1155-MAG    1981 Madagascar Accounting and Audit                11.50     7.14
CRt 1161-MAG    1981 Madagascar Forestry II                       20.00    12.14
CR 1211-MAG    1982 Madagascar Village Livestock II4/             15.00    12.95
CR 1249-MAG    1982 Madagascar Agriculture Institutions            5.70      3.41
CR 1298-MAG    1982 Madagascar Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                    11.50      5.70
CR 1337-MAG    1983 Madagascar Lac Alaotra                         18.00    17.77
CR 1391-MAG4-5/1983 Madagascar Highways VI                        25.00    24.69
CR 1433-MAG6/  1983 Madagascar Cotton                              7.90      7.90
TOTAL                               32.57  385.35   145.41
of which has been repaid           3.07    8.58
TOTAL now outstanding               29.50  376.77
Amount sold
of which has been repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    29.50  376.77
TOTAL undisbursed                                     145.41
1/ The status of projects listed in Part 'A' is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/ Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/ Not yet effective.
5/ SF-4 for US$20.0 million was also approved for same project.
6/ SF-8 for US$9.9 million was also approved for same project.



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan      Equity      Total
------(US$ Million)------
1977   Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga               11.00      0.29       11.29
1980   Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                                 1.25        -         1.25
1983   Pgcheries de Nossi-Be                           2.57      0.13        2.70
15.24



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                   1978
(b)  Project preparation:               1981/1982
(c)  Appraisal mission:                June 1983
(d)  Negotiations:                     April 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  October 1984
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)  Signature of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and implementing agencies (para. 65);
(ii)  Creation by Antananarivo and Toamasina of surcharges to
recover a portion of upgrading costs at project sites
(para. 66);
(iii) Establishment at the Central Bank of a Special Account
to receive an IDA deposit of US$500,000 and initial deposit
by the Government of FMG 150 million into the Project
Account (para. 74); and
(iv)  Signature of implementation and management agreements
(para. 56).
(b)  Conditions of Disbursement
(i)  For construction of the Ankirihiry Health Center, transfer
of the site to the Ministry of Health (para. 51);
(ii)  For upgrading in Antananarivo, completion of land
expropriation and municipal registry of the land acquired
(para. 51);
(iii) For upgrading in Toamasina, completion of transfer of the
project sites to municipal registry (para. 51); and
(iv)  For the employment component, transfer to CENAM of land
needed for the carpentry and toolmaking cooperatives
(para. 59).



- 33 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(c)  Other Conditions
The Government will:
(i) eliminate by December 31, 1986 at the latest all arrears on
the transfer to Antananarivo and Toamasina of municipal taxes
it has collected (para. 47);
(ii) establish the Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing no later
than December 31, 1985 (para. 65);
(iii) adopt an Action Plan for improvement of SEIMAD management and
finances, no later than December 31, 1985 (para. 50).
The Municipality of Antananarivo and the Municipality of
Toamasina will:
(i) keep arrears toward JIRAMA for current electricity and water
consumption at a maximum of three months' billings
(para. 68);
(ii) continue Antananarivo's policy of non-replacement of staff
retiring from service, with the aim of reducing technical
services staff to 1,200 people by December 31, 1987
(para. 57);
(iii) carry out a reorganization of Toamasina's technical services
acceptable to IDA no later than December 31, 1984 (para. 57);
(iv) increase for both municipalities indirect taxes, rents on
property, and other municipal receipts (para. 47); and
CENAM will:
(i) designate by July 1, 1984 a Chief of the Employment Unit with
qualifications acceptable to IDA (para. 59).






IBRD 17491
Jl|TANZANIALo                 SEPTEMSER 1983
Thin nap has been prepared by                                                                                                                                  _COtOROS
The World Bdnk's dtff eocbieney                                 1CDMGRO                                                                                                                   f
br1 tie coeolranoe o0 th9                                       '                   /oo~'-                               'or *\                        i                          V  
readers and is erroaioty  or tri o  
inteminetaeot Thd WorIdBn S laII                              1l1.                                                                       
and the tnleoatd Fi-na\.
Corporation The denootatlor                       II\tJ
osed and the boundaries thPVm                                                        _'/Ir
Pn Ihgisoap do notonpy on the                                                                                _  /                                            p.   >/0 
par ot The Wrld Bank and ffte                                  MORAF  0         I
terneoat-l Fi.nan  C. orprabon_.
any tod nreont en Be oal stats                                                                                                                                                     "  t W(A\-0~   Antenena,ivo
ot any tcrntip   o  eny ,,                                                                                                                                                                      20-_
endors.mnt nr anoeptan-s Ot
oorh oundarIes.                                                                                                                                                   'oSX Xtl     
t   / 4  \ g    \*  .g,   /    <              }(^   /\ < \                         /         /     /                   ~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40-  50
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRO/FTOJF  DEVELOPPEMENT U                      RBA /N
/ /MANG^OTRA                                         /'\  52  ' .- / A  I /    / ,v1\ \1 TOAMASINA  LOCATION  OF PROJECT  SITES
,OA MA$/NA- LOCA IISA TION DfS Si7fS DU PROJET
STSTO BE UPGRADED
SESA RE/OA8/LITER
- -ROADS
2  0                     M/DMA  BmpB,ames 0C A 4,
ANJOMA  NEIGHBOURHO?OD NAMES
Nt4MS DE  UAR_/ER
/                               gAWt~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Ppoint Hostie
0      200      400      600     BOO      1000 Moto's



I



MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJEr DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBA IN
ANTANANARIVO: LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
ANTANANAR/VO: LOCAL/SAT/ON DES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET
'     SC.'R'-ANAIHAZO                           EXISTING DRAINAGE SYSTEMA
".l ATkACiXZC                          PlY G,          CC   .r4lC
15OTRY CENTER                           -H!X NEL
TR  CX 0,N0TEREETIN
TEA' C NTER,E'T iONS           ~EX15T TIC  RYWERAC- SYSTEM'I
TRRAR'6OURTEER    L't /C':1RFSFAU z)Ed; ;U5,S SY/5FdtA
}>                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~EY;STING WAtTER 3UPPL{y5YSTEPl  rP, )/
'Plp5                                            P'MEPING STA-ION
u \\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RATYu lc NT/. ,,.V 5RK                                                   MsA, =r .....MA t1 RAC
> ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~YN -iS ---  L                            PP /tTtANEV SESTES'.4oN -.    E XXR
Aiim, dna                                                                                  5105CC
R ESERMVT WSER
14,05-.           -   MA ~b-SIN3 ACT'l
,0f  I  M''XASE
\a\4\           ~               ~~~                       ~          ~ XEXI,  SEI)ES1                                             1
\                         \     /  .f                    t.l. ikpml yf            /            Ananindiamamv~A IAl. 1
-<~~~) ~AmboM daet - Antmen<~
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~<SX
--                                         -~~~~~~~~~"- TISSEFT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Cs                                            <       _'~       *-  |       S XXS   7
Amp    i    S  Mi 5500V  ,fn' or innd                            ea                       {    ~     & XMnsolv 
;  AF SZI5EF9W SWAILNE                            pa .iro6m dffrt Ihl nX Worl Bnks of,ne 15                                                                                 -34T<
CEON                       fn XMAESI O    n Sin IGr  ersa3d/ P                   /ivey otheXn  --                                                                           C
' t9 TT7A? AhtA     fl, tieembnun!ac- es       o any d  Mr1trnnX orS Wadd daA3.4  -_                                                                                lg
i  :   N )4tJ     _~~~~~a             onnrhs maG do OrnoEt lmDX  ath                      no  t 
d - tiFh bcndAs                                                                 N I



