Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                     îLL GNPY
Report No. 4758-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Water Supply and Urban Development Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    =  Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US 1.00                         -- FMG 400
FMG 100                          =  US$ 0.25
FMG 1,000,000                    =  US$ 2,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (Metric System)
1 meter (m)                      =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 miles
1 square meter (m2)              =  10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)         =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                   =  2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                      =  0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)               =  264 US gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCT                 Bureau de Circulation et de Transport (Traffic
Management Bureau)
BPU                 Urban Project Unit (Bureau du projet urbain)
BTM                 Rural Development Bank of Madagascar
CATP                Centre d'Application des Travaux Publics (Public Works
Training School)
CEA                 Centre d'Expérimentation de l'Aménagement (Center for
Investment Policy Studies), Ministry of Public Works
CENAM               Centre National de l'Artisanat Malagasy (National
Artisan Center)
CFC                 Centre de Formation de la Comptabilité (Accountancy
Training Center)
CUR                 Centre Universitaire Régional (Regional University
Center)
DAUH                Directorate of Architecture, Urban Planning, and
Housing, Ministry of Public Works
DGP                 Directorate General of Planning, Office of the
Presidency
faritany            Local government unit ("province")
firaisana           Local government unit: group of fokontany ("district")
fivondronana        Local government unit: group of firaisana
("municipality")
fokontany           Local government unit ("neighborhood")
IFPB                Impôt foncier sur la Propriété Bâtie (principal property
tax)
ILO                 International Labour Office
INPF                Institut National de Promotion-Formation (National
Promotion and Training Institute)
JIRAMA              Jiro sy Rano Malagasy (water and electricity authority)
SEIMAD              Société d'Equipement Immobilier de Madagascar
(Madagascar Construction Corporation)
TAFB                Taxe Annexe à l'Impôt Foncier sur la Propriété Bâtie
(supplementary property tax)
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
WHO                 World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR URBMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SECTORAL  CONTEXT  ............... ..  ............. .            1
A. Impacts of Urban Growth: Antananarivo and Toamasina ...    1
B. Urban Institutions ...................................... .2
C. Goverament Initiatives....  o..... ...................          4
D. The Bank's Involvement in the Urban Sector ..............       5
E. Activities of Other Lenders  .........................,         6
Il.   THE  PROJECT .................... *............................ ....,..... 7
A. Objcivs........................                                  7
B. Project Description .............................               7
C. Choice of Project E lem enen...........  ...............    8
D. Record of Experience with Similar Projects                      9
III.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ................. .       9
A. Estimated Costs .    ........................................    9
B.  Financing  Plan ......a..........  ..*.....  ......  ......   12
C.  Flow    of  Funds ......................................      12
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT.` ...........................   13
A. Overview of Institutional Arrangements and Agencies .....   13
B. Procurement ..     .. .........................................   17
C. Disbursement ......................................... . ..    19
D. Training                    . ...........  20
E. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements   ..   22
F. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision .................  23
G. Environment and Health ............      ..    ............ .   23
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, COST RECOVERY, AND AFFORDABILITY: ......  24
A. Local Government Finance in Madagascar ........                ...........  24
B. Cost Recovery ........................................27
C. Affordability .....        ..................................  30
D. Financial Impacts of the Project    . ................   32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Madagascar in June 1983. Mission members included Messrs. O. Grimes, J.
Racki, and I. McDonald, I. Nahmias (consultants), and A. Konye (ILO
consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ..... .. .. . ... . .. . . . . .. ........... 33
A. Benefits and Impacts   .      . ....... .. .......... .    33
B. Calculation of Economic Rate of Return.................   34
C. Urban Poverty Aspects   . ........................ , , , ...**    35
D. Project Risks ....                                           35
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................   37
ANNEXES
1.  Summary Description of Project Activities        .....     .       40
2.  Cost Estimates by Time: Main Components .....................      47
3.  Financing Plan: Main Components .... ..........................   49
4.    Organization  Charts ........................................ .  50
5.  SEIMAD: Unaudited Financial Statements ......................      53
6.  CENAM: Unaudited Financial Statements . .......................   55
7. Implementation Schedule ............................                56
8.  Project Execution and Management .............................   57
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ................                64
10.  Municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina: Revenue and
Expenditure Statements ......................................   65
11.  Distribution of Household Income, Isotry and Toamasina .......   67
12.  Cash Flows of Project Entities ...............................   68
13.  Cost and Benefit Estimation and Economic Rates of Return ........ 78
14.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....   81
TABLES
Table 1:  Cost Estimates by Main Component ........................    il
Table 2:  Project Financing Plan ..................................   12
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements                 ..                    17
Table 4:  Summary of Training Proposals              ..                 21
Table 5:  Schedule of Cost Recovery ...............................   29
Table 6:  Household Income Available to meet Upgrading Costs ......   30
Table 7:  Affordability of Surcharge in Upgrading Areas    . .          31
Table 8:  Economic Rates of Return, Global and by Component  ..    35
MAPS
Antananarivo: Location of Project Components ................. IBRD No. 17492
Toamasina: Location of Project Sites ......................... IBRD No. 17491
Isotry-Anatihazo: Roads and Solid Waste Collection, Sewerage,
and Street Lighting         ........................ IBRD No. 17485
Isotry-Anatihazo: Storm Water Drainage ..................... IBRD No. 17487
Isotry-Anatihazo: Water Supply ............................... IBRD No. 17486
Morarano-Ambalakisoa: Water Supply, Storm Water
Drainage, Roads and Solid Waste Collection,
and Street Lighting                    ..                   IBRD No. 17488
Ankirihiry-Mangarivotra: Water Supply,
Storm Water Drainage, Roads and Solid Waste
Collection, and Street Lighting ...... o..................... IBRD No. 17489
Antananarivo: Isotry Center Improvements . .....         ...... IBRD No. 17490



MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Impacts of Urban Growth: Antananarivo and Toamasina
1.01      A steadily expanding portion of Madagascar's population of 8.5
million people now lives in cities. From the present 17.5%, the proportion
of the population living in urban areas is expected to reach 20 percent (3
million) by the year 2000.1/ By then, 125,000 new residents would be
added to cities each year, three quarters of them through natural increase
and only one quarter through migration from rural areas. This sustained
growth has left the cities ill-equipped to provide the value added,
employment, and services required for a viable economy. The stagnation of
the economy's productive sectors has contributed to the spread of
low-productivity jobs in services and the informal sector. Moreover,
because funds and equipment are scarce, essential infrastructure is not
being maintained. The weak local tax base worsens this situation by
forcing local officials to turn to the national budget for the most urgent
expenditures, at a time when the economy as a whole cannot generate the
savings required for investments in the priority sectors of agriculture,
industry, and transport. Deteriorated service networks, low labor
productivity and earnings, run down housing, and inadequate urban transport
show that the impacts of poorly managed urban growth are pervasive. They
are especially serious in Antananarivo and Toamasina, the capital and chief
port cities of Madagascar.
1.02      Antananarivo.  With a 1982 population of 595,000 in the central
city and another 250,000 in suburban districts, Antananarivo accommodates
nearly half the urban population of Madagascar. If Antananarivo is to
increase its effectiveness as the country's chief employment, trading, and
management center, it must meet the challenge of its unique spatial
setting. The crowded city center was built on steep hills above the rice
fields and market gardens of the surrounding Plain of Antananarivo. As
land values rose, new households sought cheaper land outside the city
proper. The result has been an almost completely unchecked expansion,
either onto the surrounding plain where flooding is frequent, or onto
steeply sloped hills whose access to the city is restricted to one or two
road corridors.
1.03      Jobs and services have not kept pace with this expansion.  Nearly
half of Antananarivo has neither sewerage nor lower-cost alternatives such
as septic tanks. Lack of adequate waste disposal and storm water runoff
creates pools of stagnant water on house lots and streets, permitting
waterborne diseases to spread more freely. Road congestion has been
worsened by the increase in private cars and in traffic along work trip
routes to or across the city center. Poorly marked intersections and other
"blackspots" contributed heavily to the nearly 3,000 traffic accidents in
1/ Urban residents are those living in centers of 4,000 or more.



- 2 -
Antananarivo in 1978 (the latest year for which reliable figures are
available), causing about US$1.5 million in damages. The difficulties in
even maintaining transport networks at their current levels were compounded
by the floods of January-February 1982 and the aftermath of hurricanes in
January and April 1984, which caused extensive buckling of street
surfaces. For lack of equipment and organization of road crews, city
streets have remained virtually impassable for long periods.
I 04      Toamasina.  Similar problems of inadequate services and poor
urban management occur in a much different setting at Toamasina. In
contrast to the crowded districts of Antananarivo, Toamasina has reached
its present population of 100,000 by expansion at low density on a coastal
plain where long narrow ridges of sand alternate with troughs of stagnant,
swampy water. Although a 1954 realignment of the Pangalanes Canal (see
Map 17491) improved drainage for some districts, four neighborhoods to the
west and south of the city center completely lack basic drainage. Safe,
piped water in addition to drainage is an urgent priority for these
neighborhoods, since about 40% of the population obtains drinking water
from contaminated ground sources. Lined privies, usually metal drums
buried in the sand, are rarely emptied because the city has not been able
to maintain its suction trucks in good repair.
B.  Urban Institutions
1.05      Responsibilities for urban services, employment, and housing are
organized in a pattern similar to that of many other countries in the
region. A coordinating body, in this case the Directorate General of
Planning (DGP) in the Office of the Presidency, is charged with preparing
and reviewing urban investment programs and coordinating their
implementation. The Interior Ministry supervises local governments.
Technical ministries and public agencies are in charge of programs in
sub-sectors such as land servicing and housing (Ministry of Public Works
and Madagascar Construction Corporation, SEIMAD) and artisan promotion
(National Artisan Center, CENAM). Municipalities are responsible for the
repair ot streets and the maintenance of other essential services such as
road markings, drainage channels, and solid waste collection.
ln06      In practice, however, the weak coordination, outdated equipment,
and inadequately trained staff that characterize urban institutions have
blurred lines of responsibility as new functions are created or taken over
without redefining the old. Following a decentralization program begun in
1974, responsibility for community facilities, minor drainage, street
maintenance, and refuse collection is divided among four levels of local
government. Primary education and primary health care, for example,
are to be handled by neîghborhood-level units (fokontany), numbering 500 -
1,000 people. Markets and civil registration (births and deaths) are the
responsibility of district (firaisana) governments, while larger facilities
such as hospitals and Regional University Centers (CUR) are managed by the
provinces (faritany).
1.07      The Public Works Ministry, through its Directorate of
Architecture, Urban Planning, and Housing (DAUH), has had little success în
increasing the stock of urban housing. DAUH has mainly relied on the
experience of the Madagascar Construction Corporation (Société d'Equipement



- 3 -
Immobilier de Madagascar, SEIMAD), a mixed company 80% publicly owned, to
design, promote, and manage housing programs. Over the past several years
the scope of SEI'AD's housing programs has largely been confined to
managing the current inventory of 7,000 units. Water and electricity
networks on all housing sites are installed by Jiro sy Rano Malagasy
(JIRAMA), the water and electricity agency.
1.08      The artisan and building trades receive assistance through the
National Artisan Center (CENAM), created in 1978 following an ILO study of
the organization of job creation and training in Madagascar. UNDP
financing since August 1978 has helped establish the main CENAM office in
Antananarivo and six regional centers. With ILO assistance, CENAM is
promoting artisan cooperatives in bricks and ceramics, construction and
agricultural tools, textiles, and leather. Cooperatives are given training
and guidance in marketing, improvement of technical skills, and basic
management.
Municipal Management and Finance
1.09      Municipalities ("fivondronana") have the dual role of (a)
managing programs of service provision and maintenance of infrastructure,
including those initiated within their borders by national ministries; and
(b) supervising their constituent districts (firaisana) and neighborhoods
(fokontany), which in reality has often meant taking over tasks the lower
tier governments are unable to carry out. Cities are managed by an
Executive Committee with an elected President (Mayor), and an
Administrative Committee.  A Popular Council in each municipality votes on
budgets, taxation, and all major questions of economic and social policy
facing the city. The Executive Committee represents the national
authorities locally, maintains electoral rolls, and is charged with
carrying out decisions of the Popular Council. The day to day functioning
of the local administration, as well as supervision of lower tier units, is
handled by the Administrative Committee, headed by a Delegate who reports
to the Executive Committee.
1.10      Lack of resources has severely hampered the effectiveness of
municipal administrations (see also paras. 5.01-5.10). The principal
sources of municipal receipts, totalling about US$5.6 million for
Antananarivo in 1982 and US$900,000 for Toamasina in 1981, are direct and
indirect taxes, rents from municipal property, charges for services,
government grants, and transfers of taxes collected nationally. Infrequent
revision of property valuations has contributed to a decline of 16% in real
receipts from direct taxes during the 1970s. The level of government
grants and transferred taxes has fluctuated greatly over the same period.
Indirect taxes, rents, and charges for services have remained stable in
money terms, resulting in a steep decline in real terms during the period
1971-1980. The failure of all revenue categories to keep pace with service
requirements has resulted in maintenance of service networks either being
given over to other agencies (principally the already overstretched Public
Works Ministry), or simply not being undertaken. On issues that are best
dealt with on a metropolitan scale, such as transport policy, coordination



- 4 -
between the main Antananarivo municipality2/ and the three other
municipalities in the Antananarivo region Has proved elusive. No agency,
for example, has been given responsibility for area-wide transport
planning.
C. Government Initiatives
1.11      Until recently, urban investment programs were aimed at meeting
quantitative targets that were often remote from economic reality. The
1974-77 Development Plan proposed to increase housing investment from 2-3%
to 57O of GDP, while in the 1978-80 Three-Year Plan, "construction for the
greatest number" remained a priority but with a different goal: the
construction of 20,000 dwellings units per year through 1980. Neither
target was realized. Of the FMG 22 billion required over the 1978-1980
period, only FMG i billion could be committed, and less than a quarter of
that was actually spent, to build less than 1,000 houses. More recent
investment strategy calls for a smaller urban program, with emphasis on
maintenance of infrastructure and efficient management of services, as
attention continues to be focused on revitalizing agriculture and other
directly productive sectors.
1.12      New policy directions in employment, urban transport, and urban
planning are being prepared or are beginning to be applied. In the current
planning framework, cities of Madagascar are to be a major foeus of job
creation and training that would promote the use of local building
materials. Encouragement of small enterprise has so far largely meant
stimulating the formation of production and marketing cooperatives,
although small-scale house construction and upgrading are also being
encouraged for their positive effects on employment. Following studies of
traffic management financed by UNDP, city officials have introduced better
sign posting, signal systems, and one-way streets that have improved
traffie flows in central Antananarivo. However, coordination between units
responsible for transport and traffic research, project preparation, and
management remains weak. Two urban planning studies also financed by UNDP,
one to update the 1974 Antananarivo master plan and the other to prepare
planning guidelines and sectoral strategies for the Greater Antananarivo
area, are providing the physical planning framework for decisions on where
future urban growth should be encouraged. The updated master plan, now
being reviewed by the Government, takes better account of the extremely
limited resources available for urban investment than the 1974 plan, in
that financial and institutional issues are given more weight in investment
decisions. A 25-year master plan and sectoral development programs for the
Antananarivo region would be prepared under the planning framework study,
which would be carried out in the Public Works Ministry for 18 months
beginning in July 1983. To improve coordination among these programs, a
unit in the Directorate General of Planning has been functioning since
mid-1982. This unit was recently strengthened through technical assistance
furnished by the French aid agency and Foreign Ministry.
2/ The Fivondronana of Antananarivo-Renivohitra.



D. The Bank's Involvement în the Urban Sector
Rationale
1.13      During the 1980s, resources for urban investment in Madagascar
will be limited both by the slow and erratic growth foreseen for the
economy and by policies to redirect investment toward the top priority
sectors of agriculture, transportation, and energy.3/ Since central
government financing cannot be counted upon to meet even the most critical
urban needs, local governments and private savings must be relied upon to
generate the resources for maintenance and improvement of urban services.
Opportunities to strengthen local government finance, as well as
institutions with a key role in making urban investments more
effective, provide the basis for the Bank's interest in this project.
1.14      The dialogue on these issues began on a sustained basis in 1978
and intensified during 1980-1982, when the Bank acted as Executing Agency
for a program of urban studies financed by UNDP. Other parts of the study
program included the two urban planning studies of Antananarivo (para.
1.12), for which the UN Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS) was Associated
Executing Agency. Through this dialogue, a foundation has been laid for
translating sectoral plans and programs into permanent reforms by promoting
the repetition, financially and organizationally, of projects starting out
on a modest scale.
Projects ln Related Sectors
1.15      Bank-assisted projects in water supply, industrial finance,
education, and regional planning are most relevant to the objectives of the
proposed project. Under WHO auspices, the French consulting firm OTH in
the mid-1970s prepared master plans for water, sewerage, and drainage for
Antananarivo through the year 2000. In the process, the most urgent
medium-term needs were identified and formed the basis for a US$20.5
million IDA credit for water and sanitation (Cr. 1002-MAG), approved in
April 1980. This project has been designed to improve water transmission,
distribution, and maintenance in various parts of the city, and to
rehabilitate and extend the sewerage and drainage networks. The
Antananarivo municipality is carrying out a solid waste component including
the construction of dumping containers, maintenance of the existing dump
site, and improvement of an experimental composting unit. Execution of the
drainage and sewerage portions, however, has met with serious delays.
Largely because water and electricity tariffs have not allowed JIRAMA to be
financially viable, the covenanted financial rates of return are not being
met. However, in April 1984 the Government announced a 20% increase in
water tariffs, effective April 1, 1984, as well as a commitment to pay in
1984 FMG 3.2 billion of arrears owed to JIRAMA by ministries, public
agencies, and local governments, with the remainder to be paid in 1985.
Although these steps are encouraging, further measures, in particular a
second water tariff increase by January 1985, will be required for JIRAMA
to attain adequate financial rates of return.
3/ See the World Bank report, Madagascar: Current Economic Situation and
Prospects (Report No. 4400-MAG, March 28, 1983).



- 6 -
1.16      A US$5 million line of credit to the National Industrial Bank
(BNI) to finance medium and large scale industrial projects became
effective in February 1981 (Cr. 977-MAG). A small portion of this credit
(US$0.2 million) has been reserved to help small-scale industrial firms and
artisans. Under the second IDA-assisted education project of US$14
million, approved in 1976 (Cr. 663-MAG), buildings and equipment are being
furnished for regional education centers in Toamasina, Fianarantsoa,
Toliary, Mahajanga, and Antseranana and for a teaching materials center in
Antananarivo.
1.17      Long run solutions to problems related to urban settlement of the
Antananarivo agricultural plain (see para. 1.02) will require measures to
lessen the severity of floods from the Ikopa, Sisaony, Mamba, and Andromba
rivers which periodically devastate large sections of the city and
surrounding plain. The Government, assisted by a US$2.3-million IDA
technical assistance credit approved in FY814/, has begun to distill the
results of many engineering studies into coherent technical proposals for
land use in the Antananarivo Plain. This program includes studies of
agricultural production, water supply, and land servicing as well as flood
protection. A report issued by consultants SCET International/DINIKA in
July 1982 was reviewed by a committee supervised by the Directorate General
of Planning. On the basis of this first-stage report, only the benefits
from using land intensively--such as for urban settlement or market
gardens--seem likely to justify the substantial cost of flood protection
works.
E. Activities of Other Lenders
1.18      External commitments to Madagascar for technical assistance,
training, and studies under ongoing projects totalled US$50 million in
1980, of which France supplied 57%, the UN system 29%, and Switzerland 7%.
The largest share of this assistance was in education, followed by
agriculture, natural resources, and health. In the urban sector,
this type of assistance has been concentrated in employment and housing.
With UNDP financing, technical experts and consultants from ILO have helped
establish the National Promotion and Training Institute (Institut National
de Promotion-Formation, INPF), supervised by the Ministry of Economy and
Commerce. INPF sponsors courses locally and overseas in industrial trades,
production management, electronics, and mechanics.
1.19      In housing, France has funded technical training and fellowships
abroad for staff of the Public Works Ministry, and has recently agreed to
help support the newly established Center for Investment Policy Studies
(Centre d'Expérimentation de l'Aménagement, CEA) in the Public Works
Ministry. Major studies in urban development carried out over the past
three years include (a) the Antananarivo planning framework study and
master plan framework (see para. 1.12); (b) an upgrading study of
Antohomadinika, a small neighborhood west of the Antananarivo city center;
and (c) preparation of this project, all of which were financed by UNDP and
the Government with the Bank as Executing Agency. The Public Works
Ministry and the UN Centre for Human Settlements directly managed the first
two elements of this study program.
4/ Cr. 1086-MAG.



- 7 -
Il. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01      The proposed project, which was identified in November 1978 and
appraised in June 1983, addresses two long term structural problems of the
Malagasy economy: the deterioration of existing infrastructure, and the
inadequacy of employment in cities and towns. More specifically, it is
designed to:
(a) improve the financial and management capacity of
municipalities;
(b) strengthen the ability to maintain the most critical
municipal services at least at current levels;
(c) expand the income-earning opportunities of poor and
middle-income families;
(d) demonstrate neighborhood upgrading as a technically effective
means of improving living conditions while reducing the need
for new housing investment; and
(e) build up capacity to design and carry out similar projects on
a sustained basis.
2.02      With greater capacity for revenue generation and financial
management, the municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina could begin to
improve services and access to housing. Measures to strengthen technical
services, in addition to one upgrading operation, are therefore proposed
for each city. An employment and income generation component would help
artisan groups to participate more fully in the supply of local building
materials. Traffic management and transport planning in Antananarivo would
also be strengthened. Finally, technical assistance, training and studies
would support the agencies responsible for implementation and improve the
institutional base for carrying out programs on a larger scale.
B. Project Description
2.03      The main features of the project are outlined below and described
in more detail in Annex 1:
(a) Municipal Revenue Generation and Financial Management: In the
municipalities of Antananarivo and Toamasina, measures to
improve property tax administration; improvements in other
municipal receipts; financial management
(b) Municipal Technical Services: Vehicles, staff training, and
upgrading of equipment in the same two municipalities to
strengthen the capacity to maintain essential urban services
(c) Upgrading: Improvements in basic infrastructure and community
facilities in the Isotry district of Antananarivo and in four



- 8 -
neighborhoods (Ambalakisoa, Ankirihiry, Mangarivotra, and
Morarano) of Toamasina
(d) Employment and Income Generation: Technical and financial
assistance to artisans in the building trades and to small
contractors in construction
(e) Traffic Management: Improvements in traffic and pedestrian
flows at the main junction of Isotry and at five other
intersections in Antananarivo; creation of a Traffic
Management Bureau (BCT)
(f) Project Management and Studies: Technical assistance and
project management; studies of land legislation and means of
improving the financial and managerial capability of SEIMAD.
C. Choice of Project Elements
2.04      The most basic decisions on whether an urban project was
justified in Madagascar involved trying to answer the question: How much
policy change, in pursuit of macroeconomic goals, is it both necessary and
realistic to expect a first operation to support? During preparation, the
Government attached great importance to actions that would improve the
living standards of the urban poor. SEIMAD, assisted by consultants Groupe
Huit/BCEOM, completed designs and cost estimates for two new housing sites
and four upgrading programs. Municipal finance issues would have been
studied as the housing operations were carried out. Although the project
as designed will indeed better the living conditions of lower-income
families (see paras. 6.01 and 6.06), this was not seen as reason enough for
Bank support. Reforms in the structure of municipal revenues and services
came to be considered the central focus, so that cities could take over
from national ministries a greater role in the maintenance of
infrastructure and the financing of basic services. The two upgrading
operations were then seen not as free-standing, one-off actions but as
demonstrations of the increased municipal capacity resulting from the
project.
2.05      In a similar manner, one of the two new housing sites had been
included to demonstrate the feasibility of the serviced-site, self-help
approach to housebuilding. This site was invaded in July 1982 by
squatters, against whom existing land laws proved ineffective. These
events prompted the inclusion of the land legislation study (para.
2.03(f)), to provide a clearer legal basis for future public acquisition
and management of land.
2.06      Given the pilot nature of the civil works and the weakness of
institutions, upgrading sites in number and in type should clearly support
the policy directions being pursued. Of the two upgrading sites proposed
for Antananarivo, Isotry, the more difficult and challenging case, was
included to show that the approach would be equally feasible, and probably
even more so, at other sites and in other cities. The traffic management
measures concentrated in Isotry would be an additional practical example of
the Government's intent to reverse the deterioration of this neighborhood.



- 9 -
They should therefore strengthen the case in the minds of Isotry residents
for paying the costs of upgrading, wholly apart from the transport-related
benefits of reduced traffic congestion and fewer accidents.
D. Record of Experience with Similar Projects
2.07      Urban projects recently completed in Botswana, Tanzania, and
Zambia5/ by and large reflect the achievements and the problems of such
projects since the first Bank urban loan was made in 1972. Their role in
demonstrating a workable approach to low cost shelter and service programs
has been widely acknowledged. Beneficiaries are generally satisfied with
the housing and services provided. However, a number of implementation
problems remain. Estimates of the time required to carry out projects have
sometimes been too optimistic. This problem has been dealt with in the
proposed project by allowing ample time for completion of project
activities and for the subsequent closing out of disbursements. Cost
recovery is often poor when full economic charges are imposed on
beneficiaries used to receiving services free. In other cases cost
recovery is initially good but suffers when services are not maintained.
Strengthening of municipal maintenance capacity is a key feature of the
proposed project. A major challenge in all such projects, especially in
Africa, is translating the success of one operation into permanent gains
through repetition on a broader scale.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEKENTS
A. Estimated Costs
3.01      Total project cost is estimated at FMG 7.181.8 million (US$18
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$8.9 million, representing
49% of total project cost including taxes and 59% on a net-of-tax basis.
Since the Government has determined that goods and services procured under
the project will be subject to taxation, the total cost includes customs
duties and internal taxes amounting to US$2.9 million (16%). Baseline
costs are expressed in December 1983 prices on the basis of prices
prevailing in June 1983 adjusted for inflation. Estimated costs of civil
works have been derived from consultants' feasibility studies (15%),
preliminary designs (15%), and detailed engineering (70%). The effective
demand for housing loans at upgrading sites was estimated from income and
consumption surveys undertaken during preparation. Salaries of local staff
were valued on the basis of current civil service base pay and benefits,
plus a small incentive premium at the top grades. Other operating costs
supported within the project include office equipment and materials,
gasoline, and spare parts. The full cost of land acquisition for a total
of 67 ha in Toamasina is included as a government counterpart
contribution. Costs for consultant and advisory services comprising
travel, living allowances, fees, and overheads were estimated on the basis
of recent provision of these services.
5/ Cr. 471-BT; Cr. 495-TA; and Loan 1057-ZA. See also "Retrospective
Review of Urban Operations," March 1982.



- 10 -
3.02      Physical contingencies amounting to 5.5% of total base cost have
been estimated at 15% for building materials and toolmaking workshops, 10%
for upgrading civil works, and 10% for equipment. No physical
contingencies were allowed for technical assistance, studies, or house
construction loans. Price increases for local costs were calculated on the
basis of expected increases of 15% in 1984 and 10% thereafter. Price
contingencies on the foreign component were based on anticipated inflation
of 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% thereafter. The resulting price
escalation factor represents 23% of baseline costs plus physical
contingencies, or a total contingency of about 30% of baseline costs.
Summary cost estimates are given in Table 1 below. A more detailed
breakdown is provided in Annex 2, while detailed cost estimates of each
component are available in the Project File.



MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates by Main Component
Percent    Percent  Percent
FMG million                    US$ million           Foreign      Base     Total
Component                  Local     Foreign      Total     Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange    Cost        Cost
A. Municipal revenue generation
and financial management        216.49       214.08    430.57       0.6      0.5       1.1       50          8        6
B. Municipal technical services    600.29        875.10  1,475.39       1.5      2.2       3.7       59         27       21
C. Upgrading
1. Isotry                        549.56       369.45    919.01       1.4      0.9       2.3       40         17       13
2. Toamasina                     580.62       236.59    817.21       1.4      0.6       2.0       29         15       il
Sub-Total                   1,130.18      606.04  1,736.22       2.8       1.5      4.3        35        32        24
D. Employment and income
generation                      247.57       300.78    548.35       0.6      0.8       1.4       55         10        8
E. Traffie management                87.14       153.52    240.66       0.2      0.4       0.6       64          4        3
F. Project management
and studies                     144.41       782.93    927.34       0.4      1.9       2.3       84         16       13
G. Design and supervision           198.51         0.10    198.61       0.5       -        0.5        -          3        3
TOTAL BASE COST                2,624.59    2,932.55  5,557.14        6.6      7.3      13.9       53        100
H. Contingencies
1. Physical contingencies        150.68       154.22    304.90      0.4       0.4      0.8        50                   4
2. Price escalation              844.87       474.93  1,319.80       2.1      1.2       3.3       36                  18
Total Contingencies              995.55       629.15  1,624.70       2.5      1.6       4.1       39                  22
TOTAL PROJECT COST                3,620.14    3,561.70  7,181.84        9.1      8.9      18.0       49                  100



- 12 -
B. Financing Plan
3.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$12.8 million would cover 100% of
the foreign exchange costs and 43% of costs in local currency, or 85% of
total project cost excluding taxes and duties. The remaining cost would be
financed by the Government either directly or through budgetary allocations
to the implementing agencies. The foreign exchange risk would be absorbed
by the Government. Prior to the start of each budget year, the quarterly
reports of progress during project execution would include a statement
that sufficient counterpart funds have been included in the Finance Law for
that year. Table 2 below and Annex 3 summarize the financing plan.
Table 2                        Project Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
-(US$ million)-------
A.  IDA                             3.9           8.9         12.8
B. Government
1. Investments and
operating costs                2.3            -           2.3
2. Taxes and duties               2.9            -           2.9
Sub-Total                         5.2            -           5.2
Total                               9.1           8.9         18.0
C. Flow of Funds
3.04      The Government would make the proceeds of the credit and its own
contribution available to the implementing agencies either as grants (for
components for which there is traditionally no cost recovery) or as
subsidiary loans (where costs would be recovered). Government and IDA
contributions would be placed in a Project Account at the Treasury, from
which payments would be made by the Project Unit (BPU). Each implementing
agency would in addition maintain separate project accounts. All project
expenditures would be subject to the prior authorization of BPU. The
Government would direct the US$18 million of IDA and counterpart funds to,
implementing agencies as follows:
(a) US$5.9 million would be lent to the Municipality of
Antananarivo for upgrading civil works at Isotry,
strengthening of municipal technical services and revenue
generation/financial management, and traffic management
improvements. Funds for civil works would be lent at 10%
interest, a rate expected to be positive in real terms since
inflation during the life of the project is forecast at 10%
for local costs and 6% for foreign costs beginning in 1986.
The loan would be repaid over 18 years including three years
of grace. Terms of the funds lent for municipal technical
services, revenue generation/financial management, and



- 13 -
traffic management would be 10% for seven years including two
years of grace.
(b) A second subsidiary loan of US$3.2 million would be made to
the Municipality of Toamasina for upgrading civil works (10%
for 18 years including three years' grace) and municipal
technical services, financial management, and tax collection
(10% for 7 years including two years of grace).
(c) The Government would also conclude a subsidiary loan with
SEIMAD for house construction and sanitation loans at Isotry
and Toamasina (US$0.8 million), at 10% over 18 years
including three years' grace. SEIMAD loans to beneficiaries
would be made at 12% for 15 years including one year of
grace.
(d) US$0.6 million would be made available to CENAM in the form
of a loan for the production units, and repaid by CENAM at
10% over 12 years including two years' grace. The production
units would repay CENAM at 12% over 12 years including two
years of grace for civil works, and at 12% over seven years
including two years of grace for equipment.
(e) Finally, the Government would make available US$7.5 million
in the form of grants for components whose costs would not be
recovered. These include community facilities at Isotry and
Toamasina, the Traffic Management Unit, and technical
assistance, studies, and project management.
3.05      Repayments of the subsidiary loans and of the CENAM line of
credit would be deposited into a special account that would constitute an
Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing. With operating provisions
acceptable to IDA, the Fund would be established by December 31, 1985. It
would constitute a permanent source of lending to local governments for
maintenance or extension of drainage, sanitation, and other urban
infrastructure.
IV. IHPLEMEMTÂTION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Overview of Institutional Arrangements and Agencies
4.01      The organizational structure adopted for the project aims to
build on a few existing agencies--the two municipalities, SEIMAD, and CENAM
in this case. New units were created only where considered necessary to
get the tasks accomplished (BPU), or, as with urban transport, where a
clear gap in area-wide authority (BCT) could be filled. Reviews have been
scheduled before the project is completed to decide on the future of both
BPU and BCT, on the basis of their performance and of the institutional
priorities of the late 1980s (paras. 4.29 and Annex 8, paras. 23 and 25).



- 14 -
4.02      For each main implementing agency, the governing principle has
been concentration on strengthening one or a few functions. The foeus for
the municipalities is maintenance and rehabilitation, rather than new
investment. Because their implementation capacity is still weak,
municipalities for the foreseeable future are likely to delegate
responsibility for upgrading and serviced site projects to other agencies,
of which the most capable at present is SEIMAD. In a similar manner,
assistance to CENAM is concentrated in building materials, one of five main
branches of artisan production CENAM promotes.
4.03      Within this framework, the municipalities of Antananarivo and
Toamasina would be responsible for carrying out measures to strengthen
their financial management and service capacity. For both upgrading
operations, the municipalities will rely on SEIMAD to organize and execute
the required works, as well as to administer housing loans. CENAM would
manage the building materials production units, while SEIMAD would assist
small contractors and artisans in the context of its upgrading programs.
In addition to management and coordination of the project as a whole, BPU
would be responsible for studies and traffic management improvements, the
latter through the Traffic Management Bureau (BCT) to be established within
BPU. Responsibilities of the implementing agencies are summarized below:
Component                                            Responsibility
Management/
Supervision      Implementation  Coordination
Municipal revenue generation/       Municipalities   Municipalities       BPU
financial management
Municipal technical services        Municipalities   Municipalities       BPU
Upgrading                           Municipalities   SEDIAD               BPU
Employment and income generation    CENAM             CENAM and SEIMAD    BPU
Traffic management                  BPU               BCT                 BPU
Project management and studies      BPU               BPU                 BPU
4.04      So that operations may be fully supported by local budgets as
rapidly as possible, only incremental salary and operating costs have been
included in the project. Disbursements against these items would cease
before the project is completed, and in the case of BPU and CENAM would be
complemented by an explicit review of plans for financing follow-up
actions.
4.05      Details of the relationships outlined above were discussed at
negotiations, and would be confirmed in five agreements to be signed prior
to effectiveness:
(a) implementation agreement ("convention de travail") among BPU
and the executing agencies (SEIMAD, CENAM, and the two
municipalities) to define responsibilities for project
execution



- 15 -
(b) management agreements ("accords de gestion`):
(i) between the Municipality of Antananarivo and SEIMAD,
for Isotry upgrading;
(ii) between the Municipality of Toamasina and SEIMAD, for
Toamasina upgrading;
(iii) between CENAM and the Rural Development Bank (BTM) for
administration of loans to production units; and
(iv) between the Municipality of Antananarivo and BPU for
traffic management improvements.
Annex 7 sets out the implementation schedule for project activities, while
Annex 8 gives a detailed description of actions planned in the execution
and management of each component. The remainder of this section is devoted
to a summary analysis of the capacity of SEIMAD and CENAM. In light of
recent financial trends, the operational capacity of the municipalities is
further assessed in Chapter V, Section A.
SEIMAD: Role and Financial Condition
4.06      SEIMAD manages a stock of 7,000 rented housing units, does design
work and construction supervision, and acts as contractor or
subcontractor. SEIMAD had built about 420 houses per year prior to the
mid-1970s, when concessionary financing from the Caisse Centrale de
Coopération Economique (France) was discontinued. Since then, in addition
to managing its inventory, SEIMAD has tried to define ways to bring housing
costs within reach of the 90% of urban families not able to afford the
public housing built thus far.
4.07      With the addition of a newly-created Urbanization Unit in the
office of the Director General, SEIMAD's structure is adequate to manage
tne upgrading works and housing loans of the proposed project. The
Urbanization Unit would call upon topographers and other specialists in the
Technical Directorate to assist with specific aspects of upgrading. By the
end of the project its technical functions would be absorbed into the
Technical Directorate, which would thus gain a significant body of
experience with these types of programs.
4.08      For this to occur, however, SEIMAD must stem the financial drain
from its substantial overheads and losses on rental property. As seen from
Annex 5, the recent operating performance of SEIMAD shows a deficit in
three of the four most recent years, which reached FMG 196 million
(US$490,000) or 20% of turnover in 1982. Control of public housing rents
has been keenly felt in the Housing Directorate, responsible for rental
management, where income from rents has remained static since 1979 and
costs have nearby doubled. Given also that the workload of the Technical
Directorate diminished further in 1982 and 1983, only strong measures to
reduce costs and increase income from operations will allow the deficit to
be contained.



- 16 -
4.09      A management audit of SEIMAD would therefore be undertaken to
determine the causes of the current imbalance between rising costs from
operations and overheads and static (or even falling) receipts. Measures
to restore financial viability that would be analyzed in the audit report
include increases in public housing rents and outright sale of the rental
portfolio. An immediate increase in housing rents, even though justified
in terms of its impact on SEIMAD finances, is not recommended because it
may prove to be only a temporary solution, more a symptom than a basic
cause of the problem. Instead, the management audit would examine a broad
range of measures and recommend those which most closely correspond to the
recommended role for SEIMAD in national housing policy and its revised
organizational structure. The report of the management audit would be
available in final form by June 30, 1985. Within six months thereafter,
having consulted with IDA during its review of the report, the Government
would adopt an Action Plan for improvement of SEIMAD management and
finances.
CENAIM: Role and Finances
4.10      Support for CENAM within the project, including technical
assistance and incremental salary costs of higher-level staff, aims at
strengthening its promotional role in artisan production. Created in
19786/ with the assistance of ILO and financing from the Government and
UNDP, CENAM has encouraged a broad range of production (mainly textiles,
leather, tools, ceramics, and building materials) through 68
pre-cooperative associations and 16 cooperatives. While UNDP has financed
the national headquarters and six regional offices, funding of specific
projects has been left to Government, banks, and international aid.
Activities have slowed noticeably since 1981 mainly because of fluctuations
in Government grants, but have recently recovered (the 1983 allocation was
8 times that of 1981--see Annex 6). The fluctuations have so far been
absorbed by variations in the pace of constructing new headquarters in
Antananarivo, and by short-term borrowing. Continued support for
administration and for some projects has however been assured by UNDP,
which in July 1983 signed an agreement extending its financing and ILO
assistance through the end of 1985. To smooth the transition to full
Government support of project operations, CENAM would finance the last six
months of salaries of higher-level local staff, all salaries of support
staff, and operating costs (except vehicles) of the employment unit.
6/ Decree No. 78.244 of August 18, 1978.



- 17 -
B. Procurement
Arrangenuts
4.11      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3 below:
Table 3                     Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Not        Total
Project Element                   ICB    LCB a/ Other b/ Applicable C/ Cost
Civil Works                       3.9    0.9      0.75        0.6         6.15
(3.1)  (0.7)   (0.5)       (0.0)       (4.3)
Equipment and vehicles            4.7                                     4.7
(3.0)                                  (3.0)
Tools, materials, and                     0.5     0.35                    0.85
office supplies                         (0.4)   (0.2)                   (0.6)
Housing and sanitation                            0.4                     0.4
loans                                           (0.3)                   (0.3)
Incremental operating                             0.7         0.45        1.15
expenses                                        (0.6)       (0.3)       (0.9)
Consulting services                       0.1     4.5                     4.6
and training                            (0.08)  (3.47)                  (3.55)
PPF advance                                                   0.15        0.15
(0.15)     (0.15)
TOTAL                         8.6    1.5      6.7         1.2        18.0
(6.1)  (1.18)  (5.07)       (0.45)    (12.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ "Local unrestricted bidding" (Appel d'offres ouvert local)
,  Force account, direct purchase and hiring of consultants
CE Includes incremental operating costs and salaries, and refinancing of
PPF advance
4.12      Civil works for rehabilitation of streets and drainage networks
in Isotry (US$2.9 million, including contingencies) and Toamasina (US$1
million) would be carried out by contractors after procurement through
ICB. Because the works are not excessively complex, prequalification of
contractors would not be required. Contracts for traffic management works,
buildings for the production units, and the sewerage network at Isotry
(US$900,000 total) would be awarded through local competitive bidding
("appel d'offres ouvert local") acceptable to IDA, in which foreign firms
are eligible to participate. Additional minor civil works totalling
US$250,000 that are not likely to interest foreign bidders (washing points,



- 18 -
pedestals for water standpipes, and solid waste containers) would be
undertaken by artisans and small contractors supervised by SEIMAD. Because
of its experience, JIRAMA is capable of installing water and electricity
networks economically on a force account basis. Qualified domestic civil
works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7+% over the
bid price of competing foreign contractors.
4.13      Heavy equipment, computer hardware, and vehicles would be grouped
wherever possible into lots of at least US$50,000 and would be procured
through ICB. Miscellaneous items of equipment, materials, spare parts, and
supplies in lots of less than US$50,000 and not exceeding a total of
US$350,000 may be procured from dealers on the basis of at least three
price quotations. All works contracts over US$100,000 each and equipment
contracts over US$50,000 each would be subject to prior IDA review. In
total this represents close to 95% of civil works value and about 90% of
the value of equipment contracts. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award review.
4.14      Consultants for training and technical assistance would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Incremental operating
expenses include US$450,000 for staff salaries for which procurement is
inapplicable. The remaining expenses (US$700,000) are for vehicle spare
parts which would be procured from dealers on the basis of quotations
obtained locally.
Procedures
4.15      Procurement procedures in Madagascar are often subject to long
delays.7/ Submissions from bidders are first reviewed by a Bid Evaluation
Committee (Commission d'appel d'offres) whose chairman is selected from the
agency responsible for launching bids. Contract awards are decided by the
Central Commission for Contracts (Commission centrale des marchés, CCM).
However, CCM does not base its opinion on the bid evaluation report but on
a Decision issued by the ministry or agency authorizing the expenditure
(ordonnateur des dépenses). The Decision may differ from the bid
evaluation report, and moreover does not always have a firm technical
basis. The following measures would be applied to streamline the
procurement process as it relates to this project:
(a) The Project Director would be represented on all bid
evaluation committees.
(b) The executing agencies would react to a bid evaluation report
by issuing a Decision within ten days of its receipt.
(c) For equipment procurement, price would be given a weight of
50-70% in bid evaluation, and in-country service and parts
10-20%. Remaining factors (technical features, price of
spare parts, and standardization of inventory) would receive
a total weight of 10-40%.
7/ Ordonnance 70.089 of January 28, 1970 is the main statute governing
procurement in Madagascar.



- 19 -
4.16      other procedures not routine in Malagasy practice but which have
come to be applied to Bank-supported projects in Madagascar, such as public
bid openings and requirement of a performance bond or bank guarantee, would
also be in effect.
C.  Disbursement
4.17      The schedule of estimated disbursements given in Annex 9 is based
on a six-year implementation period, plus 18 months to hand over BPU
operations to permanent agencies and close out disbursements. It is
consistent with the disbursement profile for the urban sector in the
Eastern Africa Region. A handing-over period of 18 months is justified
primarily by the need to plan successor activities carefully and secure
commitments from implementing agencies.
4.18      Disbursements of the IDA credit would be made on the following
basis:
(a) civil works, upgrading: 80% of total expenditures
(b) imported equipment, vehicles, and materials: 100% of total
expenditures
(c) locally procured equipment, vehicles, and materials: 70% of
total expenditures
(d) civil works, employment and traffic management: 85% of total
expenditures
(d) housing and sanitation loans: 85% of total expenditures
(e) operating costs and salaries of implementing agencies: 100%
of foreign and 80% of local expenditures
(f) consultant and advisory services: 100% of foreign and 50% of
local expenditures
(g) 100% reimbursement of the PPF advance.
4.19      All disbursements would be fully documented, except for
disbursements of local expenditures for (a) promotion of small contractors;
(b) operating costs and salaries of implementing agencies; and (c) housing
and sanitation loans. Disbursements for the above items would be made
against statements of expenditure (SOEs), documentation for which would be
retained by BPU and made available for IDA review during supervision. BPU
would forward withdrawal requests to the Treasury for review prior to
dispatch to IDA. Because of its growing familiarity with the Bank
portfolio in Madagascar, the Treasury should be able to transmit requests
to IDA without undue delay. The recently established Resident Mission can
also help in this regard. Two advances from the Project Preparation
Facility totalling US$241,000 were made in March 1983 and May 1984 for
completion of detailed engineering, preparation of bidding documents for
the Isotry and Toamasina upgrading, and equipment, vehicles, and technical



- 20 -
assistance required during start-up of BPU. All items would be procured in
accordance with paras. 4.11 to 4.16.
4.20      To ensure prompt availability of funds for the project, IDA and
the Government would each make initial deposits. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that Government counterpart funds totalling FMG 150 million
(US$375,000), mainly to finance land acquisition, would be deposited in the
Project Account by the date of credit effectiveness at the latest, and that
a balance of at least FMG 150 million would be maintained at the start of
each quarter during implementation. Largely to enable the BPU to pay
suppliers without delay in the months following effectiveness, a separate
Special Account with an IDA contribution in U.S. dollars of $500,000 would
also be set up at the Central Bank. The Special Account opening balance
was calculated as the equivalent of three months' needs of the IDA share of
eligible expenditures in foreign currency, plus a 20% margin. Eligible
expenditures do not include purchase of vehicles and equipment for
technical services departments, for which the Government, through BPU, is
expected to request that suppliers be paid directly. Establishment of the
Special Account is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
B. Training
4.21      The staff of both municipalities have good job experience but
little formal training: although the majority have been in post five years
or longer, few have had instruction in skills they have acquired on the
job. Priority will therefore be given to upgrading of technical skills in
sanitation, maintenance of infrastructure, and accounting, together with
training to reduce the acute shortage of middle-level managers. The
traffic engineer responsible for BCT would furthermore observe the
operations of an applied studies unit, city traffic bureau, and public
transport corporation abroad for a period of three months. Table 4 below
summarizes this program, amounting to nearly 1,000 staff-months of
training:



- 21 -
Table 4
Summary of Training Proposals
Training
Staff            Locally/    Total
Implementing Agency             Function          No.    Abroad       s
Directorate of Financial        financial
Affairs, Antananarivo           analyst,
economist          2         L          8
Toamasina Municipality          accounting         2         L           8
Directorate of Urban            senior
Development, Antananarivo       managers           5         A           6
technical
staff and
middle
level
managers         155         L        780
Directorate of Technical        senior
Services, Toamasina             managers           1         A           1
technical
staff and
middle level
managers          44         L         192
BCT                             traffic
engineer/
unit chief         1         A          3
TOTAL                                            210                   998
4.22      Sessions regularly offered by three Malagasy training
institutions--the Public Works Training School (CATP), National Promotion
and Training Institute (INPF), and Accountancy Training Center (CFC)--
would make up the bulk of this program. These training agencies are
equipped to handle a program of this magnitude. On behalf of the
municipalities, BPU would sign agreements on the scope, duration, and cost
of training assignments with each institution by March 31, 1985.
4.23      In addition to formal training, on the job experience would be
gained by staff of the Direct Tax Department in property valuation and
analysis of property value surveys. In Isotry, the Sanitation Unit should
reach at least 2,500 families with demonstrations of improved methods of
maintaining septic tanks. Locally recruited advisers would train managers
and treasurers of the building materials production units in basic
management, accounting, and record keeping. This "stair-step" approach to
training relies on a small number of local counterparts trained on the job
to in turn train others. Although this approach does not ensure uniform



- 22 -
training for all, it is the only means possible when technical advisers
play a major role in day-to-day operations and construction supervision in
addition to being trainers.
4.24      For both municipalities, the transition to more effective
financial and technical services calls for recruitment of new staff (24 in
Antananarivo, 37 in Toamasina) in addition to training. Qualified recruits
in the numbers required would be available in the market, since local
training agencies award over 1,000 diplomas and certificates in the
specific disciplines concerned every year.
B. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements
4.25      Accounting procedures of the project would be those of the
national uniform system of accounts (Plan Comptable), which is an adequate
basis for recording project-related financial transactions ("comptabilité
de caisse"). Consolidated accounts would be maintained by BPU, while the
Municipalities, SELMAD, and CENAM would also keep separate accounts for
project-related expenditures. On the basis of these cash flow accounts,
the Chief Administrative and Financial Officer of bPU with advice from the
municipal finance specialists and project auditors would set up separate
accounts by type of activity ("comptabilité analytique"). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that this cost accounting system would be
operational by July 1, 1985. Cash flow accounts would meet the needs of
the project in the meantime.
4.26      Financial statements including cash flows of project sub-accounts
and year-end balance sheets reflecting the transactions of the main
implementing agencies would be completed within three months after the
close of the Government fiscal year. Auditors' opinions on these financial
statements would be prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
submitted to the Government and to IDA within eight months of the end of
the Government fiscal year. The auditors' opinions would be required to
contain a special reference to SOEs (para. 4.19), confirming that the
claimed expenditures were used for the purposes for which they were
intended.  Terms of reference of the first audit, of 1984 accounts, would
be broadened to include (i) guidance to BPU on the establishment of cost
accounting systems; and (ii) a separate analysis of use of IDA funds under
the Special Account.
4.27      BPU would prepare progress reports each quarter that would
briefly identify major problems and recommend solutions; review the
performance of implementing agencies; and maintain key indicators of
progress in fulfillment of project goals. Prior to the start of each
budget year, the progress reports would include a statement that sufficient
counterpart funds have been included in the Finance Law for that year. The
format for such reports was discussed at negotiations.
4.28      A Project Completion Report would be prepared and sent to IDA
within six months of the close of disbursements.



- 23 -
F. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision
4.29      The Project Director, Chief Technical Officer, and Chief
Administrative and Financial Officer of BPU would be mainly responsible for
monitoring the progress of the project toward its stated objectives (para.
2.01). BPU would also supervise two studies that would enhance the
prospects for replicating key project features on a broader scale. These
studies would assess the impacts of municipal finance reforms and of the
organizational framework of the project itself, drawing lessons in both
cases for the conduct of future operations. The local finance study would
be done in early 1988 so as to review experience with the 1984 and 1987
property revaluations and give guidance on how the Infrastructure Fund for
Urban Housing could be mobilized to support the expenditure needs of local
authorities.  The organization study (late 1988) is timed to coincide with
the period of reflection on the future status of BPU and the takeover by
Government of 50% of BPU operating costs and salaries.
4.30      IDA supervision of the project would require up to 105 weeks of
staff and consultant time during the six-year implementation period. As is
normal for a new sector, this level of involvement would be concentrated in
the first three years, after which some activities would be winding down
and BPU would have acquired greater management experience. Staff
requirements for supervision include a financial analyst and an economist
or engineer, plus specialized inputs from consultants in urban transport,
job creation, and housing.
G.  Enviroumnt and Halth
4.31      The project by its nature would have no detrimental impact on the
environment. Designs for upgrading, derived in part from aerial
photographs, have taken full account of settlement patterns to minimize
disruption to existing layouts, especially in the denser sections of
Isotry. Displacement of dwellings has therefore been reduced to a
minimum. On the contrary, Isotry and other upgrading sites would benefit
from the enhanced environmental conditions brought about by reduced
flooding.
4.32      Isotry should also receive a major share of health benefits, from
the reduction in exposure to water-borne diseases and epidemics in a
neighborhood with a mortality rate 70% higher than the average for
Antananarivo. More immediate health impacts are anticipated from the
Ankirihiry Health Center in Toamasina, where both the number of visits and
the quality of treatment from the expanded medical staff should rise.



- 24 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, COST RECOVERY, AND
AFFORDABILITY
A. Local Government Finance in Madagascar
5.01      The 1976-77 reorganization of local government8/ aimed to
decentralize responsibility for many services and to establish
democratically accountable bodies at the local level. Four levels of local
government were established:
(a) Fokontany:      the most local unit which operates at the
level of the neighborhood;
(b) Firaisana:      the next level which represents a district
of a city;
(c) Fivondronana:  covers several firaisana (six in the case of
the main Antananarivo municipality);
(d) Faritany:       the highest level which corresponds to the
former provinces.
5.02      The faritany of Greater Antananarivo comprises a population of
about 840,000 (1982) and includes four fivondronana, 35 firaisana and
several hundred fokontany. Among these authorities the Municipality of
Antananarivo (Fivondronana of Antananarivo-Renivohitra) is outstandingly
the most important, its population being over four times that of the next
largest fivondronana and its budget of FMG 2,250 million (US$5.6 million)
more than twice that of the other authorities together.
5.03      As set out during the local government reorganization, the main
tax resources of each tier of local government are as follows9/:
(a)  fokontany  -  40% of the licence duty on the sale of alcoholic
beverages (transfer from Goverament)
- a number of indirect taxes, for example on motorcycles,
dogs, traditional ceremonies, and public events;
(b)  firaisana  -  50% of the principal property tax (IFPB) when the
firaisana is situated in a former urban commune,
otherwise 75%
- 100% of the supplementary property tax (TAFB) if outside
former urban communes (otherwise no share)
8/ Ordonnance No. 76.044 (December 1976), applied by Decree No. 77.037
the following year.
9/ The revenue and tax-raising powers of local authorities are specified
in Law No. 77.005 of December 1977, modified or amplified in
Ordonnances No. 78.009 and 78.010 in 1978.



- 25 -
- a variable share of taxes on the slaughter of animals
- a number of indirect taxes similar to those received by
the fokontany
- 25% of the licence duty on the sale of alcoholic
beverages;
(c)  fivondronana - 50% of the principal property tax and 100% of the
supplementary tax (former urban communes), otherwise
25% and nothing respectively
- a one-third share of the transactions tax (T.U.T.) and
15% of the business tax (taxe professionnelle)
- a share of the taxes on motor vehicles and animal
slaughter
- 20% of the licence duty on the sale of alcoholie
beverages
- a number of indirect taxes on entertainment and public
events;
(d) faritany       - 85% of the business tax (taxe professionnelle)
- a share of the vehicle and slaughter taxes
- 15% of the licence duty on the sale of alcoholic
beverages.
5.04      In practice the local authorities are clearly dependent, for
their autonomous resources, on property taxes and indirect taxes. The
business tax and the licence duty on the sale of alcoholic beverages have
been only irregularly transferred to local government. Other revenue
sources available to local government are (i) the rents and charges
receivable from municipal property; and (ii) services and grants paid by
central government, in particular a share of the national taxes on
consumption and imports. These central government grants, which are beyond
the control of local government and which have varied in volume, have
nevertheless become an important part of local government revenue.
5.05      Property tax rates are decided locally within ranges determined
by the 1978 Finance Law. The current tax rates in the Antananarivo
municipality are within the permitted ranges for the principal tax and at
the upper limit for the supplementary tax. A factor underlying local
reluctance to levy the maximum rate in spite of the authority's shortage of
funds is the decline in service standards which has eroded taxpayers'
willingness to pay. The ceiling rates of most indirect taxes are
determined nationally.
5.06      Collection of property taxes is undertaken by the Treasury
Directorate of the Ministry of Finance. The taxes when collected are paid



- 26 -
into an account in the name of the local authority which for convenience is
maintained at the Treasury. Local officials and elected representatives,
however, play a critical role in day-to-day collection and in the pursuit
of defaulters. Indirect taxes, rents, and charges are collected by the
staff of local authorities and paid into the same account at the Treasury.
5.07       Municipal revenues and expenditures are planned on an annual
basis through the municipal budget (budget primitif), which is prepared by
the officers and approved by the Popular Council (see also para. 1.09).
Once approved by the Council, the budget has to be certified by the
Ministries of Finance and Interior and by the Financial Controller in the
Presidency. Expenditures are authorized by the President of the Executive
Committee (acting in the name of the Council) and certified by the
Treasury, and the books of account are maintained by the Treasury (a local
representative of the Ministry of Finance). An annual account (compte
administratif) is drawn up by the accounts staff of the municipality and is
approved by the same government bodies.
5.08       Total receipts amounted to about US$5.6 million equivalent for
Antananarivo in 1982 and approximately US$900,000 in Toamasina the previous
year (see Annex 10). The principal revenue sources for both cities are
direct taxes (mainly property taxes), indirect taxes (a variety of taxes
on, for example, public entertainment, advertisements, night clubs and
slaughterhouses), rents from municipal property (housing and public
buildings), charges for services, government grants, and taxes collected
centrally but transferred to local government. Property taxes are in
principle responsive to economic growth and inflation, being based on
property values, but the base is revised only through periodic surveys and
occupiers? declarations and has not maintained its real value. As shown in
Annex 10, receipts in nominal terms stagnated or even declined during the
1970s. The inevitable result has been a decline in the real value of total
receipts from direct taxes, by 16% in the decade 1971-1980.10/
5.09       The next most important source of revenue in Antananarivo has
been government grants and transferred taxes (37% in 1982, 38% in Toamasina
in 1980). These receipts are not within local government control and have
fluctuated considerably during the past decade. Their real value in
Antananarivo declined by 32% in the period 1971-80. Indirect taxes, rents,
and charges for services are within local governnent control and in money
terms have stagnated. Their real value has consequently declined rapidly:
by 55% in the case of indirect taxes and by 44% in the case of rents and
charges (Antananarivo 1971-80). Indirect taxes represented 22% of income
in Toamasina in 1980, but only 6% of income in Antananarivo in 1982. Rents
and charges represented 17% and 12%o respectively in the two cities.
Overall receipts (apart from exceptional items) declined by 30% in real
terms in Antananarivo during the period 1971-80.
5.10       The fact that neither locally nor centrally controlled receipts
have maintained their real value, combined with the expenditure priorities
10/ A. Anizon, "Rapport technique, Volet 2: Propositions pour
l'assainissement des finances des fivondronana du Grand Antananarivo,"
UNDP/UNCHS, 1982.



- 27 -
of the municipalities, have produced a differential impact on the main
expenditure headings. First priority is given to staff remuneration, the
real value of which in Antananarivo declined by 16% during the 1970s.
Whereas other operating expenditure declined by 42%, investments declined
by 71% and in 1982 represented only 7% of the municipality's normal
recurrent and capital expenditures. A lack of short-term borrowing
facilities means that expenditure programs are disrupted by cash-flow
problems as well as being subject to long-term distortions. Expenditure
priorities and declining receipts have rendered the municipalities
incapable of servicing debts; they have therefore borrowed very little to
finance major investments. In sum, the failure of all classes of revenue
to keep pace with needs, the unpredictability of receipts, and the lack of
financial planning to ensure an effective balance among expenditures are
the main reasons why municipalities have not been able to maintain
infrastructure or provide adequate services.
B. Cost Recovery
5.11      The objective of the cost recovery measures adopted is to relate
the charges to be borne by households as closely as possible to their
ability to pay and to the benefits they receive. On-site infrastructure
costs in upgrading areas would be recovered directly through a surcharge to
be levied on residents. Establishment by the two municipalities concerned
of surcharges based on property rental values and linked to the specific
upgrading investments are conditions of effectiveness of the credit. Loans
for the improvement of housing and for the cooperative workshops would also
be recovered directly through loan repayments by the beneficiaries. Costs
to be recovered directly account for 22% of total project costs.
5.12      A further 41% of project costs, relating to the strengthening of
municipal revenues and financial management, tax collection in Toamasina,
improvement of municipal technical services, off-site upgrading works, and
traffic management schemes in Antananarivo, would be recovered indirectly
through the property taxes payable by the population of each city.
Indirect as well as direct recoveries would be closely monitored by BPU and
by IDA supervision missions. Actions being supported by the municipal
revenue generation component are designed to ensure that municipal receipts
increase sufficiently to cover the debt charges and increased maintenance
costs arising from the infrastructure investments. The property tax is a
suitable means of recovering these investments since property values would
reflect the benefits received, especially as revaluations will be carried
out more frequently, and since property values are related positively
(although not very strongly)li/ to household incomes.
5.13      Together, direct and indirect recovery account for 63% of total
project costs. The balance of 37% concerns community facilities in the
upgrading areas, land acquisition in Toamasina, assistance to CENAM and
BCT, project management, studies and technical assistance. The costs of
these elements are not considered to be recoverable and would be absorbed
by the national government. Although it is customary to recover land
11/ Correlation coefficient of +0.298, where +1.0 indicates a perfect
positive correlation.



- 28 -
acquisition costs from beneficiaries, the cost of land in Toamasina is
actually a reserve against possible claims for indemnification arising from
the original expropriation and transfer to public ownership during the
mid-1970s. This item therefore appears as a counterpart contribution, but
one whose recovery from the present settlers of the area would not be
justified. Land acquisition at Isotry is included in on-site and off-site
infrastructure costs recovered through surcharges and property taxes. Cost
recovery provisions are summarized in Table 5 below:



- 29 -
Table 5                             SCHEDULE OF (DST REODVERY
(»1 million)
Absorbed by             Costs Recovered by
Ccponent              Total Cost    Government    Property Tax Lon Repayments  Surcharge
micipal Pevenue Generation
Antananarivo aixn
Toanasin  tax base    222.37                          222.37
Collection Toemasina     4.92                            4.92
Financial nBnagant    30.29                             30.29
Tech. advisers         211.55          211.55
Mm. Tech. Services
Investments            904.31                          904.31
Training                140.82                         140.82
Operating costs         175.99                         175.99
Upgrading
Land Toamasina         269.68          269.68
On-site
Infrastructure        820.06                                                       820.06
Off-site
Infrastructure        871.43                          871.43
Housing loans          322.68                                        322.68
Caimiuty
facilities             96.66           96.66
Fmployment
Works1ops               178.59                                       178.59
Assistance to CENl      66.23           66.23
Tech. alvisers         320.27          320.27
Road re-surfacing       20.38           20.38
Traffic Managenent
Improvements Isotry
Center and             144.04                          144.04
intersections
Traffic Management
Bureau              123.31          123.31
Project ManagEment
and Studies
Project Mnagent    1,080.58          1,080.58
Studies                 32.10           32.10
IOTAL                  6,036.26        2,220.76        2,494.17        501.27         820.06
US $ equivalent           15.1             6.1             5.7           1.3            2.0
%                          100              37              41             8             14
Note: Excluding taoes and duties.



- 30 -
5.14      Local authorities would levy a surcharge in areas where works are
being undertaken at a rate based on rental values that allows them to
recover the annual cost of the works. Local authorities would set the rate
and determine the period over which the surcharge would be payable.
Antananarivo and Toamasina would have the demands for their specific
surcharges computed and printed by the Direct Tax Department, where rental
values are registered for the property tax and a computer will be available
for calculating and printing the demands. The surcharges would be levied
in the name of the municipalities and collected by them. Since the
surcharges would provide the means whereby the municipalities would repay a
portion of the subsidiary loan, the product of the surcharges would be
credited to a separate account that can be drawn upon only to repay the
subsidiary loan.
5.15      Any shortfall in housing loan repayments in excess of the 10% of
annual repayments that is covered by the Guaranty Fund would be at the risk
of SEIMAD, which is responsible for allocation and recovery of the loans
and repayment of its subsidiary loan. Loans for the production units would
be allocated and recovered by CENAM. The impacts of a serious default,
which is considered unlikely because of CENAM's day-to-day involvement with
the workshops, would be mitigated by CENAM's ability to recover assets from
the cooperatives. Any losses over and above those met through disposal of
repossessed assets would be borne by the project in the form of a less
rapid buildup of the Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing.
C. Affordability
5.16      Tenant households in Isotry currently spend about 20% of income
on housing (rent, taxes, sanitation charges, and other housing expenditure)
and owner households spend about 12.5% of income according to surveys
conducted during preparation. The income distribution of households in the
two upgrading areas is presented in Annex 11. Analysis of other
expenditure categories, plus the savings of about 30% likely in non-rent
expenses (e.g., emptying of septic tanks) as a result of the project
suggest that households could pay about 10% more for housing than they do
now without affecting basic consumption patterns. The net amounts
available to meet upgrading costs under these conditions are shown in Table
6:
Table 6               Household Income Available to meet Upgrading Costs
(%)
Owners          Tenants
Gross housing expenditure
(present % in brackets)               15  (12.5)        22  (20)
less rent                                -               10
less non-rent expenses (taking
account of savings)                     8.5               7
Net % available to pay surcharge         6.5               5



- 31 -
5.17      Use of rental values as the base for the surcharge enables the
burden to be borne by owners/occupiers of commercial premises as well as
households. Households currently pay 87% of the property taxes payable in
Isotry, and it has been assumed that they pay 95% in the Toamasina
upgrading areas. Results of a survey in Isotry in November 1982 suggest
that property taxes are positively correlated with income (see para.
5.12). The surcharge will therefore include a built-in cross-subsidy in
favor of poorer households. Table 7 below is based on the average
surcharge per household and therefore presents a conservative estimate of
the households for whom the surcharge will be affordable.
Table 7             Affordability of Surcharge in Upgrading Areas
(December 1983 values)
Isotry        Toamasina
Costs to be recovered (FMG million)                 416.17            356.68
Total annual payment                                 51.66             44.26
Proportion borne by households                       87%               95%
Annuity borne by households (FMG million)            44.94             42.05
No. of households                                 4,300            5,380
Average monthly payment per household (FMG)         850               650
Minimum income required
(i)  Owner income a/                            13,385           10,000
Percentile at7which affordable                6-7              3-4
(ii)  Tenant income b/                           17,400           13,000
Percentile at which affordable               9-10              5-6
a/ 6.5% of household income available
*É/ 5.0%
5.18      Taking account of the fact that tenants will not bear the
surcharge in full and that a portion of the surcharge will be borne by
owners not resident in the area, the surcharge would be affordable by all
but the poorest 5% of households. An alternative assessment of the burden
of the surcharge and the revision of the property tax combined is provided
by comparing the overall product of the property tax and the surcharge.
The current tax product from households in Isotry is about FMG 12.7
million, which would increase by about 2% as a result of the proposed 1983
tax revaluation and which compares with the surcharge of FMG 44.94
million. The combined effect of the revaluation and the surcharge will be
to increase the average percentage of income absorbed by the surcharge and
the tax from 1.0%-1.5% to 4.5%-6.8%. This is a major increase, but an
inevitable one given the very small tax payments made currently.
Consultations with local community leaders have indicated that the payments
required will be acceptable if the improvements are as significant as the



- 32 -
proposals and the surcharge, for which the TAFB portion of the property tax
is a precedent, is fully explained to the population at the time payments
fall due.
5.19      Home improvement loans would be available for building additional
rooms at about FMG 270,000 (US$675) in Isotry and FMG 324,000 (US$810) in
Toamasina, and for building and repairing septic tanks in Isotry at about
FMG 125,000 (US$313). At 15% of income spent on house improvements, these
loans for rooms (repayable at 12% over 15 years) would be affordable by
households above the 17th percentile in Isotry and above the 32nd
percentile in Toamasina. Loans for septic tank repair would be affordable
by households above the 5th percentile in Isotry.
D. Financial Impacts of the Project
5.20      Cash flow projections for both municipalities as well as SEIMAD,
CENAM, and the project as a whole are presented in Annex 12. For the
Antananarivo municipality the projections indicate a positive balance in
each year after taking account of the repayment of the subsidiary loans
under the project, a substantial increase in the expenditure of the
municipal technical services departments, and payment of annual charges to
JIRAMA for water and electricity consumption. Arrears of the Antananarivo
municipality toward JIRAMA, estimated at US$3 million, would be paid by the
Government as part of an effort to reduce all arrears owed to JIRAMA to a
maximum of three months' billings by the end of 1985 (see also para.
1.15). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Antananarivo
municipality beginning in 1986 will have no more than three months'
equivalent of water and electricity bills outstanding.
5.21      The capacity to generate these annual surpluses depends on the
adoption of revised valuations for property taxes, increases in rents and
charges for municipal property and services, and the payment by the
Government of local taxes it has collected. Furthermore, the increased
municipal taxes and charges need to be collected effectively. Successful
execution of this program would enable the Antananarivo municipality to
raise 50% of its income from property taxes by 1990, compared with the
present one-third. Although this improvement does not guarantee that the
Isotry upgrading will be replicated throughout the city, it does
demonstrate the type of urban operation that can be supported from a
strengthened tax base.
5.22      The cash flow for Toamasina indicates that it will remain in
surplus if early increases in income are achieved and surpluses generated
at the beginning of the project are carried forward to finance annual
deficits that will arise in the years 1989-1992 when loan repayments on the
project are at a peak.  Surpluses would be deposited into a Special Account
(compte d'affectation spécial) for use in covering the subsequent
deficits. The achievement of early surpluses depends on the municipality
being able to increase its revenue by about 55% by 1986, mainly through
increases in property taxes, indirect taxes, and rents and charges for
municipal property and services. The additional income will enable the
municipality to repay the loans made under the project, to increase
expenditure on technical services by 50%, and to generate a cumulative
surplus that will allow a modest increase in expenditure on other services.



- 33 -
5.23       The cash flow for SEIMAD covers the impact of the housing loans
program. A significant surplus is generated in the years 1988-1990 when
SEIMAD benefits from a three-year grace period on its loan repayments,
compared with the one-year period enjoyed by individual borrowers. This
surplus will allow for some slippage in the disbursement and recovery of
the loans and enable SEIMAD to accumulate funds to meet the repayments at
the end of the loan period. The ongoing surplus of FMG 3.84 million that
is produced by the spread in interest rates could be reduced or even
eliminated by a higher rate of default on the loan repayments. There is
therefore a significant incentive for SEIMAD to recover payments
effectively.
5.24       As a government agency, CENAM would not handle loans in a
risk-taking capacity. As the cash flow indicates, the project should
therefore leave CENAM's net financial position unchanged. CENAM will have
received additional grants to meet the costs of staff and equipment and it
will have transmitted credit funds to enable the production units to
develop their productive facilities. It will recover repayments from the
production units and transmit the proceeds to the Project (Infrastructure
Fund for Urban Housing) and to BTM which will keep accounts for the loans.
The spread between the interest rates provides the fee (FMG 2.91 million or
US$7,275 initially and then FMG 1.14 million or US$2,850) for BTM's
services (see also Annex 8, para. 20).
5.25       In the overall cash flow for the project, the housing Guaranty
Fund and project staff not financed by the project appear as budget
allocations and as items of expenditure. The substantial surplus, which
rises to FMG 2,277 million (US$5.7 million) by 1990, derives from the loan
repayments that are made by the agencies that will execute the project.
These surpluses will constitute the Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing
that will then be available for investment in basic infrastructure.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Impacts
6.01       The project will have direct, immediate benefits for specific
groups as well as wider, longer-range impacts on the economy as a whole.
Value added and employment would be generated for about 66 members of
building materials cooperatives, 300 small contractors, 400 sidewalk
merchants at the Isotry Market, and close to 1,000 artisans and contractors
likely to be hired under loans for sanitation and house construction. By
the end of the project, living conditions will have improved, often
dramatically, for 65,000 residents of upgrading districts plus 60,000 daily
users of the five intersections in Antananarivo. The consequent effects on
labor productivity and health, although difficult to quantify, should
nevertheless be significant, since the great majority of health problems
seen in local health centers arise from poor environmental sanitation.
6.02       Apart from the immediate benefits, measures to strengthen
institutions, improve local finances, and support new policy directions
would generate induced benefits well beyond the scope and time span of the



- 34 -
project itself. As is also the case for IDA-assisted projects in road
maintenance,12/ this project would help the Government protect its
investment in basic infrastructure, whose deterioration has reached the
critical stage. Ultimately the aim is to increase the effectiveness of
public investment by ensuring a more dependable supply of urban services to
the economy. Demonstrations of the viability of upgrading are critical
elements in this respect, especially as Isotry has come to be a national
symbol that decline in the quality of living and working environments is
seemingly inevitable.
6.03      Impacts on the national budget will be felt in two ways.  First,
the savings in foreign exchange through production of local building
materials will make a small contribution to lessening the acute shortage of
foreign exchange which continues to dominate economic developments in
Madagascar. Second and more important, increasing the real resources in
the hands of city governments will relieve pressure on the public
investment program, which cannot now meet even the most urgent priorities
in the social sectors. This would effectively apply the concept that
investments benefiting residents of a city should be financed by the city.
6.04      Strengthening of financial and managerial capacity will extend
beyond the two municipalities to CENAM and SEIMAD, increasing their
ability to design and carry out national programs. Success in operating
the production units would inspire more confidence in CENAM as the leading
edge of government policy to create productive employment. SEIMAD would
gain experience with upgrading in two contrasting urban environments.
Moreover, the audit of its management and finances would be a means of
stimulating debate on more fundamental issues of housing policy, such as
rent control and public ownership of housing.
B. Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
6.05      Economic rates of return in December 1983 prices were calculated
for quantifiable project components (municipal technical services,
upgrading, employment, and traffic management improvements, including the
technical assistance required for their implementation) representing 83% of
total project cost (less price contingencies). The overall
weighted-average rate of return is 17%. Municipal revenue/financial
management measures and studies were not included in these calculations
because of the difficulty in quantifying benefits. Table 8 below gives
economic rates of return for each component and the results of sensitivity
tests showing the changes in costs and benefits it is reasonable to expect
may occur. The economic rate of return for Toamasina upgrading is lower
than that for Isotry principally because of the large amount of
compensation payable for acquisition of land. Details of the approach and
assumptions used are given in Annex 13.
12/ The Sixth Highways Project (Report No. 4399a-MAG) is one example.



- 35 -
Table 8                          Eomionc Rates of Return, Global and by CoQxment
EMployment Generation
Mun. Tech.  Isotry   Toemasina   Brick &        Tool-   Traffic   Total
Services   Upgrading Upgrading    Tïle  QCrpentry mkidng Maagennt Project
Base cse             17          16        14        20        19     17       29      17
Cost increased 10%   14          14        13        18        17     15       26       15
Benefits decreased 10%.  13      14        13        18        16     15       25       15
Costs increased and
benefits decrease1 10%  10      12       il         16        15     13       22       13
Benefits delayed
one year            12          13        12        17        15     14       21       14
C.  Urban Poverty Aspects
6.06      On the basis of household expenditure on rice, beef, and other
traditional Malagasy staples, plus an allowance for non-food expenditure,
the absolute poverty threshold is estimated at FMG 44,304 (US$110) per
capita per year. Both Isotry and the Toamasina upgrading neighborhoods
reflect the proportions of poor families, on this criterion, in their
respective cities--12% and 13% respectively. The demonstration upgrading
programs would therefore benefit slightly more than 1,700 poor families.
D. Project Risks
6.07      Concrete applications of new policy directions are inevitably
subject to the risk that the applications will not resemble the policies,
or that they will take longer to implement than foreseen. The main risks
affecting this project concern (a) the capacity of executing agencies; (b)
cost recovery; (c) possible delays in land acquisition; (d) cost overruns;
and (e) counterpart funding.
6.08       Capacity of executing agencies.   SEIMAD, CENAM, and the
municipalities have yet to realize their potential for planning and
execution of programs on a sustained basis. Moreover, many of the
implementing agencies of this project are also involved in the Antananarivo
Water and Sanitation Project, which has encountered serious problems
(para. 1.15). The inexperience of ministries and agencies entrusted with
the project will be addressed by substantial amounts of technical
assistance and training to build up local capacity, and by confining the
project to actions already within their mandate. Centralized coordination
and management by BPU should more rapidly resolve problems of
responsibility or turf, and expedite procurement procedures and Government
review of the results of studies. Close IDA supervision is an essential
ingredient in this process.
6.09      Cost recovery.   Several features of the project suggest that the
risks from beneficiaries not paying property taxes or the surcharge are
acceptable. First, subsidiary loan repayments in Antananarivo are never



- 36 -
more than 15% of municipal receipts. A shortfall in revenue would first be
absorbed by the surplus on operations, which would be generated by the
project and is expected to reach US$5.8 million by 1991. This flexibility
is however not present for Toamasina, where loan repayments in the late
1980s cause temporary annual deficits reducing the surplus. Particularly
in Toamasina, cost recovery performance would therefore be reviewed prior
to this stage (during 1986). If considered necessary, equipment purchases
would be delayed or cancelled to result in a more gradual buildup of
technical services departments. Specific recommendations were made during
preparation and appraisal on the details of collection procedures. For
example, it was felt essential that the physical improvements be undertaken
at roughly the same time as higher tax obligations come due. As for tax
collection, the project does not assume any improvement in collection
performance for Antananarivo, and only a moderate one in Toamasina despite
the resources for collection provided within the project. Finally, the
beneficiaries of upgrading works consulted during preparation declared
their willingness to meet the charges, if the works were carried out as
proposed and the benefits fully explained.
6.10       Land acquisition.   Completion of expropriation is traditionally
a major cause for delay. This risk is offset by the close attention
Government has already given to the process: in Toamasina, for example, a
declaration of intent to bring the site into municipal ownership was issued
in June 1983.  As a condition of disbursement of the upgrading component
rather than a condition of effectiveness, land acquisition if delayed would
not affect the startup of building materials production, property
revaluations, and other essential measures not tied to the implementation
schedule for upgrading. However, the process as a whole will be carefully
monitored to prevent delays from becoming excessive.
6.11       Cost overruns.  Because the financing plan (para. 3.03) is
highly levered, a small cost overrun in local currency would result in a
large percentage increase in local participation. Should domestic
inflation continue at the current 20% rate, cost overruns on portions of
the project could indeed occur. If this happens, consideration would be
given to cutting back on sewerage investments at Isotry, municipal
equipment, and housing loans. This should make it possible to deal with
any reasonable cost increases without drawing further on the national
budget (see para. 6.12).
6.12       Counterpart funds.   When viewed over a six-year period, the
amounts required from the Government to meet the implementation schedule
are well within its capacity. The initial deposit in the Project Account
of US$375,000 equivalent in local currency would be an early indication of
the timeliness that can be expected. Finally, the Quarterly Reports would
indicate before the start of each budget year that the Finance Law of that
year provides for the project's needs in local currency.
6.13      From the foregoing it is clear that the risks associated with
this project must be minimized through specific protection measures and
continuous surveillance. As described in paras. 6.08-6.12, the specific
measures proposed would keep the risks at acceptable levels.



- 37 -
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND REC(OMNDATION
7.01      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
The Government will:
(a) eliminate by December 31, 1986 at the latest all arrears on
the transfer to Antananarivo and Toamasina of municipal taxes
it has collected (Annex 1, para. 1(b))
(b) establish the Infrastructure Fund for Urban Housing, with
operating provisions acceptable to IDA, no later than
December 31, 1985 (para. 3.05)
(c) establish the Project Account at the Central Bank and make a
first deposit of FMG 150 million (US$375,000), chiefly to
finance land acquisition, no later than the date of credit
effectiveness. The balance in the Project Account at the
start of each quarter would be at least FMG 150 million
(para. 4.20)
(d) ensure that recommendations from the management audit of
SEIMAD are available by June 30, 1985. Within six months
thereafter, following consultation with IDA, the Government
would adopt an Action Plan for improvement of SEIMAD
management and finances (para. 4.09 and Annex 1, para. 10)
(e) make budget allocations available to CENAM sufficient to
support project activities, including the last six months of
salaries of higher-level local staff, all salaries of support
staff, and operating costs (except vehicles) (para. 4.10)
(f) firm up the training arrangements outlined in paras. 4.21 to
4.24 in a training program and schedule to be available by
March 31, 1985
(g) appoint a Chief Administrative and Financial Officer and a
Chief Technical Officer for BPU by December 31, 1984 (Annex
8, para. 24)
The Municipality of Antananarivo and the Municipality of
Toamasina will:
(h) keep arrears toward JIRAMA for current electricity and water
consumption to a maximum of three months' billings (para.
5.20) (Antananarivo)
(i) continue its policy of non-replacement of staff retiring from
service, with the aim of reducing technical services staff to
1,200 people by December 31, 1987 (Annex 8, para. 7)
(Antananarivo)



- 38 -
(j) carry out a reorganization of its technical services
acceptable to IDA no later than December 31, 1984 (Annex 8,
para. 8) (Toamasina)
(k) within two years of completion of the transfer of land in the
project area to the Municipality, deliver an Occupancy Permit
in project areas with terms as described in Annex 8, para. 12
(Toamasina)
(1) appoint by December 31, 1984 a Director of Financial Affairs,
a Chief of Vehicle Maintenance, and a civil engineer as head
of the Planning and Studies Division, with qualifications
acceptable to IDA (Annex 8, paras. 3 and 6) (Antananarivo)
(m) increase indirect taxes, rents on property, and other
municipal receipts as indicated in Annex 1, para. 1(b)
(Antananarivo and Toamasina)
CENAM will:
(n) appoint by December 31, 1984 a Chief of the Employment Unit
with qualifications acceptable to IDA (Annex 8, para. 19).
7.02      The following are special conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Signature of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and implementing agencies as indicated in para.
3.04
(b) Signature of implementation and management agreements as
indicated in para. 4.05
(c) Establishment by Antananarivo and Toamasina of surcharges to
recover a portion of upgrading costs at project sites (para.
5.11).
(d) Deposit in the Project Account of FMG 150 million in
counterpart funds (para. 4.20)
(e) Establishment at the Central Bank of a Special Account to
receive an IDA deposit of US$500,OOU (para. 4.20).
7.03      The following conditions of disbursement of funds against related
expenditures will also apply:
(a) For construction of the Ankirihiry Health Center, transfer of
the site to the Ministry of Health (Annex 8, para. 12)
(b) For upgrading in Antananarivo (except community facilities):
completion of land expropriation and municipal registry of
the land acquired (Annex 8, para. 12)
(c) For upgrading in Toamasina, completion of transfer of the
project sites to municipal registry (Annex 8, para. 12)



- 39 -
(d) For employment, (i) completion of transfer of the Andriantany
site (brick and tile plant) to CENAM; and (ii) transfer of
the Soanierana site (carpentry/woodworking) from the Public
Works Ministry to CENAM (Annex 8, paras. 16 and 19).
7.04      With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 12.1 million (US$12.8 million) to the
Government of Madagascar.
May 24, 1984



-40-                       ANNEX 1
Page I of 7
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Description of Project Activities
Municipal Revenue Generation and Financial Management
1.        Municipal Revenue Generation.  Receipts of the Antananarivo city
administration declined 30% in real terms during the 1970s, chiefly because
the rolls of the property tax (accounting for three-quarters of municipally
generated revenues) were not revalued and because the central government
failed to give back to the cities some receipts of municipal taxes it had
collected. Proposals for strengthening local finance therefore focus on
(a) increasing the frequency and improving the efficiency of property
revaluation and property tax collection; and (b) increasing receipts of
five other city taxes, in part through a firmer government commitment on
revenue sharing. The proposals are summarized below:l/
(a) Property tax base and collection
(i) Provide for more frequent updating of values. The period
between updates of rental values, which make up the
property tax base, would be reduced from five years to
three years. Vehicles, supplies, and staff costs
included in the project would support full revisions
of property rental valuations in both cities in 1984,
1987, and 1990. The 1984 revaluation would cover all
registered properties plus an additional 15,000 (23% of
the total) not now on the rolls.
(ii) Clarify the role of the Municipal Committee. At present,
a Municipal Committee composed of national and local
officials has the power to approve, amend, or reject the
updated values prepared by the Direct Tax Department of
the Finance Ministry. The absence of clear procedures
for resolving disputes over valuations has frequently
delayed adoption of revised valuation rolls. To remedy
this situation, the role of the Municipal Committee would
be changed to allow only one round of review of property
values as estimated by the Finance Ministry. The values
determined following this single review would be adopted
as the tax base.
(iii) Reduce the tax subsidy on new housing. New housing is
presently exempted from property tax payments for 10
years. This period would be reduced to 5 years for
/ A complementary proposal, to introduce a surcharge that would recover a
portion of upgrading investment costs, is discussed in Chapter V,
Section B.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
construction above US$15,000 in value as an experiment to
gauge the possible impacts on housing construction.
Should the reduction in the exemption period not affect
people's incentive to invest in housing, a further
reduction could be considered.
(iv) Improve collections. Collection of the property tax in
Antananarivo does not pose major problems, since about
60% of the total tax is recovered the first year, between
70% and 75% in two years, and 80% within three years.
However, to reduce the lags in collection that are
evident in Toamasina, the project would cover the
salaries of five additional assistant collectors for one
year and light vehicles for the team of collectors.
(v)  Printed materials, vehicles, equipment, and a
micro-computer would be acquired to facilitate analysis
of the revaluations as well as storage and updating of
the tax rolls. Computer hardware, programs, and training
for a local operator are included in this effort to speed
up the analysis of revaluation survey results and
issuance of tax demands (bills).
(b) Other municipal receipte
(i) In April 1984 the Antananarivo municipality doubled its
rents on municipal buildings and market stall fees.
Rentals on municipal buildings would be increased by a
further 100% in real terms, and fees for market stalls by
140% in real terms, over six years beginning in 1984.
(ii) Arrears on central Government transfers to Antananarivo
of receipts of the Business Tax (FMG 140 million or
US$350,000), Vehicle Tax (FMG 230 million), and Alcoholic
Beverage Tax (FMG 130 million) would be made up over the
3 years 1984-1986. Transfers thereafter would be kept
current.
(iii) In April 1984 the Toamasina municipality doubled its
rents on private municipal property, increased rents and
charges on public buildings by 50%, and raised charges
for municipal services by 185%. Toamasina would effect
further increases in real terns of 100% in rents from
private municipal property, 50% in rents and charges on
public buildings, and 50% in charges for municipal
services (primarily the emptying of septic tanks) during
1984-1988. Indirect taxes would be increased by 50% in
real terms over the three years 1984-1986.
(iv) In Toamasina, arrears on central Government transfers to
the city of Business Tax receipts (FMG 16 million) would
be paid over 1984-1985. Transfers in later years would
be kept current.
Assurances on the above actions were obtained at negotiations.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
2.        Financial Management.  Measures to increase revenues would be
complemented by a strengthening of municipal financial management, to
promote (a) adequate linkage between financial planning and the planning of
technical services; (b) continuous review of revenue sources and the
ability to improve the cost-effectiveness of services; and (c) adequate
financial control of municipal operations. In Antananarivo a Directorate
of Financial Affairs would be created and staffed, and a Committee for
Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation established (see organization
chart, Annex 4). Economic and financial staff of the Directorate would be
trained, and equipment, materials, and 24 specialist-months of advice in
municipal finance would be provided. In Toamasina the present Accounting
Department chief would be supported by the appointment of a deputy who
would handie much of the day-to-day management of the Department and the
project accounts. This will enable the chief to help the President of the
Executive Committee in the tasks of financial planning, coordination, and
evaluation. The chief and deputy chief would be assisted by a municipal
finance adviser (12 specialist-months), and would each receive four months
of training.
Nunicipal Technical Services
3.        To improve the maintenance of essential urban services, city
departments in Antananarivo concerned with street repairs, sanitation and
drainage, and logistical support would be strengthened through acquisition
of vehicles, staff training, and upgrading of equipment. Training, locally
and abroad, would be provided for technical staff and middle-level managers
such as repair workshop chiefs.  A similar program would be carried out in
the Street Maintenance Directorate (which is also heavily involved in
sanitation and refuse collection) of Toamasina.
lpgrading
4.        Antananarivo.  Isotry, a low-income district of 45,000 people
west of the Antananarivo city center, has suffered for decades from
frequent flooding and poor sanitation. Improvements mainly in drainage and
sanitation, described below, would drain all water in streets within one
hour of subsidence of a peak downpour, compared with the current 2-4 months
of standing water along major thoroughfares (see also Maps 17485, 17486,
17487, and 17492):
(a) Streets: Existing vehicular streets would be repaired and
additional vehicle access roads built where necessary. An
extensive network of pedestrian streets would be constructed
to a relatively high standard to ensure suitable access for
all residents, as well as complement the drainage network to
be built under the project. The high standard is also
intended to facilitate easy maintenance.
(b) Drainage: Lack of suitable drainage is the most urgent and
historically difficult problem in Isotry. An extensive
network of lined channels and box culverts is consequently to
be built. In order to offset the susceptibility to flooding,
the swampy areas in the low-lying parts of the site would be



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
retained as polders, linked to the network and each other by
unlined canals and a system of small dikes. The polders in
turn would feed into a retention pond which is to be drained
by a pumping station provided through the project.
(c) Water Supply: The existing network of public standpipes would
be increased by 26 in order to ensure a service of about one
unit per 80 households. Maximum distances to standpipes
would in general be 100 meters. Some 6U washing points (one
per 30 households) would also be constructed. All works
would conform to JIRAMA standards.
(d) Sanitation: The main road in Isotry (Route d'Anosipatrana) is
subjected to a continual discharge of sullage and overflow
from septic tanks. This is in part the result of existing
flooding problems, but primarily because residents along the
road all have private water connections resulting in high
consumption. The project would provide a sewer line (150
connections, privately financed) in the main road. The
sewer, which would include a small pumping station, would
connect to a second collector ("collecteur aval"). In size
and depth the sewer is designed to allow for future
connections as demand justifies the extension of the
network. In addition, 250 loans for the construction and/or
repair of existing sanitation units (based on the current
system of simplified septic tanks) would be provided.
(e) Street Lighting: The existing street lighting network would
be extended throughout the area.
(f) Solid Waste Collection: A total of 40 concrete and brick
containers would be provided along all roads accessible by
service vehicles. This would provide service at a maximum
distance of about 150 meters from most households.
(g) Land Acquisition: Successful execution of the works,
particularly the sanitation system, requires acquisition of
about 1.8 ha of land in private ownership. While land for
the polders would not be expropriated, some of the main
channels require expropriation, as does the retention basin
adjacent to the pumping station. Limited expropriation is
also necessary for the road network.
(h) House Construction Loans: The size of this component is
limited as a result of the large number of absentee owners
and the implementation capacity of SEIMAD. Based on surveys
of demand, it is estimated that loans equivalent to about 200
units of 12m2 (about 240 loans) would be appropriate.
(i) Community Facilities Existing schools and clinics are
adequate, particularly given the land availability
constraints. The market in Isotry Center, together with the



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
area reserved for vendors' stalls, is to be upgraded. This
total area of 1 ha includes:
a. development of the open site where about 400 merchants
(60% with parasols, 40% with movable stands) are
located. Works include:
--resurfacing of open area
--scouring of drainage canals and replacement of cement
covers
--improvement of access road near market for
delivery of goods, and
--repair of 2 solid waste containers and public toilets;
b. upgrading of 4 covered tile pavilions (500 m2), which
include 20 hardware shops, 40 grocery stores, 20 butcher
shops, and market offices. Improvements include
renovation or repair of awnings, stalls, finish, and tile
flooring;
c. improvements to the 76-table restaurant: flooring, metal
supports, roof, cooking equipment, tables, and interior
lighting.
5.        Toamasina.  An improvement program centered on basic drainage,
safe water, and secure tenure would be carried out in four neighborhoods of
23,000 people comprising nearly a quarter of the city's population
(Ambalakisoa, Ankirihiry, Mangarivotra, and Morarano - Maps 17488, 17489,
and 17491):
(a) Streets: Main roads serving the neighborhoods would be paved
(double surface dressing) or resurfaced, and 3 km of internal
streets wouldbe paved.
(b) Drainage: Cement-iîned drainage canals would be constructed
(6 km) along the main roads. In addition, the Ankirihiry
Canal, which drains surface water into the Pangalanes Canal,
would be cleaned and reshaped in order to remove obstructions
and facilitate the flow of water (450 linear meters).
(c) Water Supply: The number of standpipes would be increased
in order to avoid use of polluted groundwater for drinking.
Maximum distance to a standpipe would be 100 m, compared with
as much as 600 m currently. A total of 37 standpipes would
be added to the present 24 in the four neighborhoods. Some
112 washing points (one for each 40 families) and 7
additional fire hydrants would be provided. All works
conform to JIRAMA standards. Sanitation is assured by pit
latrines, usually metal drums buried in the sand. Given the
suitable soil conditions, this is adequate and appropriate



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
for project areas for the foreseeable future as long as piped
water rather than groundwater is used for drinking.
(d) Street Lighting: The street lighting network (medium voltage
and low voltage), which currently serves only peripheral
roads bordering the project areas, would be extended into the
neighborhoods.
(e) Solid Waste Collection : A total of 44 solid waste
containers of 1.2 m3 would be provided along the main
streets. Three container trucks would also be acquired.
(f) Land Tenure: Security of tenure would be improved through
delivery of of an Occupancy Certificate, once the project
site is transferred from the public domain to municipal
ownership. The Occupancy Certificate would become a
provisional land title ("concession provisoire") when plot
boundaries are fixed and staking is carried out.
(g) Loans for House Construction: Families in these areas do not
have credit available to them for house construction or
improvement. The project would make available to families a
line of credit for upgrading their houses. Demand for loans
is estimated at the equivalent of 1,000 12-m2 rooms, based on
preparation surveys. A take-up rate of 40% has been assumed,
resulting in a volume of loans equivalent to the construction
of 400 12-m2 rooms (equivalent to about 280 loans).
(h) Counity Facilities: Primary and secondary schools and
markets are sufficient to serve the project neighborhoods for
the foreseeable future. The maternal and child care (MCC)
center at Ankirihiry fills a specific need in these
neighborhoods, but cannot offer more comprehensive health
care to families who must therefore walk to the single,
overcrowded hospital in the city center. Under the project,
the MCC facility will be upgraded to a health clinic by
enlarging the center physically and adding new staff.
Employment and Income Generation
6.        Small businesses and artisans in the building trades would be
supported through (a) creation of three cooperatives ("production units")
to make building materials and tools; and (b) technical and management
assistance to small contractors. The production units include:
-- a facility to produce 2.4 million bricks and 600,000
compressed tiles yearly at a site north of Antananarivo;
-- a semi-industrial woodworking unit to produce doors, windows,
and roof supports; and
-- construction tools, which would be made and sold to small
contractors working under the project as well as others on
the local market.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
7.        Assistance to small contractors includes training, organization,
and technical advice to teams carrying out samall-scale civil works and
those hired under loans to reconstruct septic tanks or improve housing.
Traffic Mbnagement
8.        Measures under the project would alleviate the most serious
traffic bottlenecks in Isotry, improve traffic flows at 5 intersections,
and lay the groundwork for more systematic transport planning in
Antananarivo. The traffic management improvements consist of:
(a) Isotry Center: separation of vehicles from pedestrians and
sidewalk vendors; reorganization of traffic flows;
parking; bus shelters
(b) Signs, traffic lights, and lane markings at 5 intersections
in and near central Antananarivo.
9.        A Traffic Management Bureau (Bureau de circulation et de
transport, BCT), headed by a traffic engineer, would function as the
studies and design bureau for national ministries, parastatals, and
municipalities in the Greater Antananarivo region. During the project
period BCT would (a) supervise execution of the traffic management schemes
(para. 8); (b) for the main Antananarivo municipality, prepare preliminary
designs and cost estimates of measures to upgrade surfaces and edges of
roads and streets; (c) prepare a framework plan for traffic management in
Greater Antananarivo; and (d) carry out an organizational study of public
transport.
Project Management and Studies
10.       An Urban Project Unit (Bureau du projet urbain, BPU) in the
Public Works Ministry would manage all proposed activities. Technical
assistance would be assigned directly to executing agencies and would be
supervised by BPU. BPU would also supervise (i) a study to revise
legislation governing land expropriation and measures to increase the
supply of buildable land; and (ii) a management audit of SEIMAD, which
would recommend actions to improve SEIMAD's finances and management
performance.



- 47 -
OADAOASCO   .ANNEX 2
__------Page  l of 2
URW   DEMOELOPNT PROJECT
COMT EUTIMATES T TiE: MAIN COIWEIITS
(F08 MILLIONS)
1984                             l9m                              :1986                              1987
sU-                              sua-                              sue-                              suE-
caoIET                           LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL   TAXES   LOCAL FOREIGX   TOTAL   TAXES   LOCAL FOREIAM  TOTAL   TAXES   LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL   TAXES
1   IU iPAL REVEUE GENERATIOt
*  FIANCIAL MNbASEMENT           56.46   98.80  155.26   44.74    12.75   66.09   78.84    0.00    3.33   44.19   47.52    0.00   43.18    2.40    45.58    4.61
2  ICIPAL TECHICAL SEROUCES          10,75   52.88  363.63  210.02   21.45  197.67  219.12  112.98   21.U4  129.72  151.36   69.68    21.64  129.71  151.35   69.68
1. UPOADING:
ISOTRI                         10.27    0.00   10.27    9.00  110.25  106.68  211.93   26.30  115.09  121.51  236.59   35.49   110.02   95.14  205.16   29.22
TOIASNA                        53.94    0.00   53.94    0.00  262.37   59.58  321.°5    9.56   59.91   90.51  150.42   22.53   64.73   62.19   126.92   19.05
4. EPLYMENT                          97.32   163.12  260.44   D0.38   31.26   94.49  125.75    0.20   57.15   42.86  100.01    0.20   10.96    0.31    11.27    0.10
s. 1IRMIC WI TEM                      5.29   12.80   18.09    2.19   40.66   86.59  127.25   16.26   14.38   54.13   68.51    4.98    2.59    0.00    2.59    0.16
6. PROJECT    ENrT s STUDIES         14.29   55.69   69.98    5.97   34.53  207.07  241.60    5.80   30.72  236.64  267,36    0.00   28.20  203.14  231,34    0.60
S3--TOAL                    240.32  68,29   931,61  313.30  513.27  818,17  1331.44  171.18  302.21   719.56 1021.77   132.88  281.32   492.8s  774.21   123.42
OCOIU ARO 91WERVISIGI            42.00    0.00   42,08    .o00   40.88    0.06   40.94    6.00   40.06    0.04   40.10    6.00   43.33    0.00    43.33    6.50
TOTAL BASE COST            2%.40  683.27  973.69  31930   554.15  018.23  1372.38  177,18  342.27  719.60  1061.87  138.08   324,65  492.59  817.54   129.92
PHTSICAL coMTINsEOC!ES           10.41   42.84   53.25   26.15   20,45   43.76   64.21   23.42   21.50   37.54   59.04   16.44   15,14   27.06   42.20    11.96
BAsE COST PLUS PrYSICAL
XiNTIOEHCIES                300,61  726.13 1026.94  345.45  574.60   861.99  1436.59  200.60  363.77  757.14 1120.91   155.32  339.79  51°.95  059,74   141.33
PRICE ESCALATION                 22.62   27.60   50.22   25.92   118.94   96.79  215.93   41.53  119.25  139.32  258,57   51.14   156.63   137.50  289.21    65.41
TOAL COIT                  323.43  753.73  1077.16   71.37  693.54   958.98  1652.52  242,13  483.02  896.46  13s9.48  206.46  496.42  652.53  l1'9.?s   207.29



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
URBAN XVELOPOENT PROJECT                                                Page 2 of 2
COST ESTIIIATES Br TIME: KUN COOFOMEMTS
MFIL NIUIONS)
19E8                                0a90                              1990                                   TOTAL
SUB-                              oU UI-                                                                 SUI-
COPENT                            LOOAL FORESGN    TOTAL   TAXES   LOCAL FOREXI    TOTAL   TAXES   LOCAL FOREBN    TOTAL   TAXES   LOCAL FDREIW    TOTAL    TAIES
1. fJIUPAL REVENUE ENERATION
AO FINANCIAL NANAGEIENT            0.00     o.00     0.00    0,00      0.00    0.00     0,00    0.00    46.44    2.60    49.04      4.91   162.16   214-08   376.24    54,33
2  MICIPAL TECONICAL SERVICES         21.38   33.29    54.67    15.19    10.69   31.03    42.52    15.19    0.00    0.00       0.00     0,00   107.55   875.10    92.65   492.74
3. WPOAING:
TOOTRY                           79.13    42.44   121.57    17,45    14.36    3.68    18.04    1.91    0,00    0.00      0.00     0.00   439.11   369.45   008.56   110.45
TOMASIMA                         60.79   21.42    82.21    11.15    15,08    2.89    17.97     1.51    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00   516.42   236,59   753.41    63.00
4.   'LCtIT                            0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    0,-0     000      0.00 0o00    0.00    0.00          0.00    0.00   196.69   300.78  497.47    50,88
5. T IMFZC MANAGEMENT                  0.55     0.00     0.55     0.0     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00       0.00    0        U00    63.47   153.52   216. 9    23.67
6. PROJECT MAGSEMENENT    SrTiES      13.08   66.B6    79,94    0.63      7,46     7.30    14.84    0,63    2.50      6.15     8.65    0.00   130.78   752.93   913.71    13.63
SUS-TOAL                     174.93 1- 4.01   338.94    44.50    47,59   45.78    93.37   19.24    48.94    8.75   57-69       4.98  1616.58  2932v45  4549.03   a09.50
ESISN AD SUPERVISION               3.33     0.00    3.33      0.50     3.33    0.00     3.33    C.50    0.00    0.00    0.0         0.00   173.01     0.10   173.1l    25.50
TOTAL BASE COST              170.26   164.01   342.27    45.00   50.92    45,78   9i,70   1.74    48,94    8.75    57.69      4.98  1709.59  2932.55  4722,14   83.00
PHYSICAL CNTINGENCIES              3.9     2.90     6,0S     1.08     0.10    0.12     D,M2    0.05      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    71.58   154.22   225,80    79,10
IASE COST PLUS PHYSICAL
CONTIIGENCIES                182.24   166.91   349.15   46.0B    51.02   45.90    96.92    19.79   48.94    8.75   57.69       4.90  1861.17  3006.77  4947.94   914,10
PRICE ESCALATION                 110.62   55.25   165.,7   V,60    39.13   1I.86   50.00   15.18   46.20          4.33    50.53     4.70   613.39   474.S3  100.,32  231.48
MTOAL OST      I             2n.86   22,196 515.02    73.68    90.15    U.76   14.    N34.97    95.14    13.00   108.22    9.68  2474,56  3561.70  6036.26  1145.58
M  "6221    1.2 7.8              9.3 6,6149



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan: Main Components
(FMG million - current prices)
IDA                  Government
Component                 Total Cost        Amount        %     Amount            %
A. Municipal Revenue
Generation & Fin.         469.13         382.81   81.6         86.32          18.4
Management
B. Municipal Technical    1,221.12        1,099.01   90.0        122.11          10.0
Services
C. Upgrading               2,380.51       1,904.41   80.0        476.10          20.0
D. Employment & Income
Generation                585.47         507.01   86.6         78.46          13.4
E. Traffic Management        267.35         231.52   86.6         35.83          13.4
F. Project Management
& Studies               1,112.68       1,001.41   90.0        111.27          10.0
Total Project Cost a/      6,036.26       5,126.17   85.0        910.09          15.0
US $ equivalent               15.1           12.8    85.0           2.3          15.0
a/ Excluding taxes and duties.



- 50 -
MUNICIPALITY OF ANTANANARIVO: Organization Chart                             ANNEX 4
Chart I
PRESIDENT OF
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
| DELEGATE OF THE 
ADMINIST'RATIVE COMMIfTTEE         COMMITTEE FOR
I                ~~~~~PROGRAMMING,
I                ~~~~~MONITORING,
ANINISN                           AND EVALUATION
|DIRECTORATE, OF       |         DIRECTORA^TE     |          DIRECTOAT               DIRECTORATE         |       |DIRFCTORATE
GNERAL                       OF                          OF                          OF                      OF HEALTH
_ADMINI STRATION AND      _      F INANCIAL           _      ECONOMIC             _       URBAN              _     AND CULTURAL
PROOEDURE S                  AFFAI RS                    AFFAI RS                 DEVE LOPMENT                  AFFAI RS
Pe rmanent                 Department                 DepartOent                  Planning and
Secretariat of          _         of        ._      _        of                        Studies    |
Executive              Financial Affaire            Economic Affairs                                             Health
Committee
Supervision  AccountingUrban Services
Liaison                                                                            a PlaPlanning  ndingAssistance
l         l          l ~~~~~~Expenditures                                          Electricity   
|Correspondence  |                         I              Commercial
-|and Goverument                  Cs                 -|Sites and Marketsl               Parsad                  Cultural Affairs|
| Supervision   |          LAcutn                                                     pnSae   _  
|Procurement                                               Urban Planning
Procedures                                      L 0  Urban Transport              and Housing
Building
Personnel   j          l     Budget      l                                      | ToPermit t
Topographie
Surveys
Receipts     l                                 l   l    Land
|Collections                                                Poiy      é
Logistical
Support
||Materialse
Equipment and
Vehicles
Street
Maintenance
Sanitation
and Drainage
Firefighting



- 51 -
SEIMAD: Organization Chart                                 ANNEX 4
Chart 2
MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
GENERAL
DIRECTORATE
.                             ~~~~~~~       ~~HOUSING  FINANCE AND 
SUPPORT              TECHNICAL           ADMINISTRATION         ADMINISTRATION         URBANIZATION
_   STAFF         _ DIRECTORATE          _DIRECTORATE            _ DIRECTORATE   .UNIT
Secretariat       -     Research               Housing               Personnel
Inspection        -   Supervision             Agencies            Land Titles and
Adjudication
Low-CosIlt
Data                                    Housing Office           Accounting
Processing                                    (O.H.E.)
Long-term                                                             Supply
Programming



CENAM: Organization Chart                                                   ANNEX 4
Chart 3
MANAGEMENT|
| COMMITTEE 
r NATIONAL 
|DIRECTORATE
PROGXAMNING            ADMINISTRATION                                         REGIONAL                 TECHNICAL
AND MONITORING              AND FINANCE               MARKETING                 OFFICES                 DIRECTORATE             PROJECT UNIT
El,,at  |           -            |    Market                                        | Product i             | Assistance to  |
Planning                 Administration              Studies                   Research                  Studies    l     Production tTnlts|
Evaluation                  Management                 Sls                        ures                   Prototypes   j    |     Training 
project Deaign  |            Finance                                          g | SpL        xtension work  |  Training    l -  Admtnistratton|
r   l                         l      r   ~~~~~~~~~~Financial   | Fomtn
_   Audio-vi s ual   _      Suppl i es         _     Management             of Cooperatives           Field Training
Promotion                  Coordination   l      | Monitoring
IREGIONAL FIELD 
L OFFICES 



- 53 -
ANNEK 5
Page 1 of 2
SEIMD
Irraome Statements, 1979-1982
(FM millim)
Table 1
Expenses                1979      1980      1981     1982     Receipts                     1979     1980      1981     1982
Opening stock                                                 Closing stock
of studies              1.50      0.78      9.26     8.63     of studies                   0.78     9.26     8.63      8.26
Staff                  214.58    246.77   290.25   307,82    Rents                        548.07   559.61   559.49   558.64
Taxes                   31.49     40.22    45.80    49.04    Other receipts               124.91   168.94   157.62    86.41
Work & services by                                            Interest receivable          22.13    33.40    10.48    23.40
third parties         115.17    135.48   160.57   121.87
Wtbrks for own arcount a/  139.98   153.91   129.76   107.21
Travel                   5.92      7.66      7.39     8.65
M2ugoent
expenses               19.01     32.11    42.22    43.87
Finacial charges        52.61     48.09    43.58    42.90
Depreciation
& provisions           403.65    403.85   397.87   396.89
Result                            10.16                       Resuit                        8.06              130.96   195.75
Total                  843.93    925.12   996.94   979.67    Total                        843.93   925.12    996.94   979.67
a/ Value of services pravided by staff on SEIMD housing stock
Source: Published accounts 1979-81
Unpublished draft accounts 1982



- 54 -
RMI 5
Page 2 of 2
SEMDW
Balace Sheets 1979-1982
(FM mi1Uic>
Table 2
Assets              1979      1980    1981      1982    Liabilities               1979     1980    1981    1982
Fixed assets                                            Stockholders' capital    610.35   642.03   726.46  579.52
- productive a/ 2,780.19  2,535.99  2,318.36  2,116.57   legal reserve            1.38     3.05      7.50   ]O.00b/
- unproductii;F    63.12    81.54    79.70    78.95
- other            87.15    87.19    88.99   101.21   Grants reeived            547.65   509.11   474.22  442.28
Stocks & work in
progresa            1.93    10.37     9.29      8.63   Reinvestnt fuxns         350.25   369.90   387.73   409.18
Current assets    524.34   544.77   717.45 1,046.27   Provisions                 597.44   636.13   709.28  805.01
Liquid assets      542.25   830.82   684.78   550.15  LIxi-term liabilities   1,271.16 1,139.10  1,009.60  875.44
Current liabilities     587.40   702.48   738.23  979.81b/
Result              -         -      154.45c/ 199.46c/ Pesult                     33.35d/  88.88d/  -         -
Total            3,998.98  4,090.68 4,053.02  4,101.24   Total                 3,998.98  4,090.68 4,053.02 4,101.24
Source: Publishld accounts 1979-81;
Unpublished draft accounts 1982. Differences in procedures for classification and recordirg of expenses apparently
expLin the sEal residual discreparcies between results of incoe statesents and balance sheets.
Notes:  a/ net of depreciation
-  interpolated fram incOEiplete record
mi overall accuwalated deficit
_i overall acclmiated surplus



- 55 -
ANNE( 6
CENAM
Balance Sheets 1979-1981
(Fr million)
fable 1
Assets               1979     1980    1981      Liabilities              1979    1980    1981
Fixd assets
(gross value)       47.80   141.11  158.71      overrnnent grant a/    173.28  106.94     -
Stocks & work-in-                               Equipent grants
progress             0.15     5.30    4.31      received                47"95  141.11  158.71
Current assets      181.98   110.85   37.50    Current liabilities       8.70    4.59   25.30
Iovt. & other borrowing    -      4.62   16.51
229.93   257.26  200.52   j                        229.93  257.26  200.52
a/ Carryover from previous period, due to processing of grants late in each acounting period.
Source: PublisIed acounts 1980, tnpublished accounts 1979 and 1981.
CENAM
Operating Expenses 1979-1981;
Government Grants Received 1979-1983
(FMG million)
Table 2
1979       1980      1981       1982       1983
Operating Expenses
Staff                     38.83     100.07   114.71
Taxes                      0.31        0.54      0.86
Supplies & services
purchased                 7.46       19.34     22.29
Transport                  1.24        4.29      1.52
Other management
costs                     6.21      16.29       5.39
Other expenses                -        0.23      0.54
Total                 54.05     140.76   145.31
Government Grants
Received                235.00      160.00     35.00     88.00      277.00
Source: Published accounts 1980; unpublished accounts 1979 and 1981.






- 56 -
ANNEX 7
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR          1984               1985               1986              1987               1988              1989               1990
QUARTER   1   2 13   4   1   2   3   4    I   2   3   4   1   2   3  4    1                    3   4   1   2     3   4   1   2   3   4
A, MUNICIPAL REVENUE GENERATION!
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
ANTANANARIVO
l. Property Revaluations
2Computeruationi of TasxRolls
4 Issuance ofTaxDemonds... ....... ......... .
5 Municapai Finance Aavisor.......
TOAMASINA
1 . Property Revaluations                               ................
2  ocalcStatisticîanforRevaluationSurveys                 ....              ...m......                                             ......
3. lssuance ofTaxDemanrds                                     ...                                                              .        ..
4. Municipal FincanceAdvsor
B. MUNICIPAL TECHNICAL SERVIACES
ANJTANAN4ARIVO
1 Recruit New Managers &Technical Statff      ~
2 Streets & Sanitotion Equipment
3.Equipmrent Rennainirig Urnts
4. Trco ning
5.Chutf Engineer-Adviscr
6 Ma ntenance Advisor
TOAIMASINA
I Recruit New Managers & Technical Staff
2 War'Ks Departrnent Equipment
3.Equipment Rennaining Units
4. Training
5. Ma ntenance Advisor
C. UPGRADING
ISOTRY
I Land Acquis tion
2 Streets & Peaestrian Parthss.. ...
3. Drainage
4 Sewerage. Connectar
5. Se-werage Sanitation Unir
6. W.ater SuopIy
7 Street Ligntîng                                    .
8 lsotrr Massker. Washnirg Points, etc.
9 Hausing &, Sarritation Loons
50 SFIMAD Engfrreer.ng Advisor- -                              - - - - -                   -
TOAMASINA
1. -and Acqu sitian
2. Street Impravements
3. Drainage
4 Water Supply                                      .
5 Street Lightiirg
S SoIra Waste Bins & Dispasal
7 Ankirjiiiry Heatrh Center
B. HorîIg & Sanrtatian Loans
D. EMPLOYMENT/PRODUCTION UNITS
I Plant & Buî dings
2 Equipment & Maîerials
3Bnîck &, T le Access Roaa (Andriantany)
4 Operation                                                                                                                                                       ..         .
5.Training ot Managers/Treasurers
6. inaustrial Engineer-Adeisar
7 Products Engineers... ................
E TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
I Isotry Center Improvements
2 Eau pment & Warks 5 intersections
3 Raad Surfaces Sfudy
4. Traiffic Pramework Plan
5. Pua ic Transport Sfuoy
6 Trattic Management Advisa                                   ~* 
F. PROJECI MANAGEMENT & STUDIES
Advisar fo Project Director
Auaits & Evajluarions                                                                                         ........... ..
L.and Legisariion Study:
Secon n/Reporaf on......Ta &Cntat wr
CoeSEIMAD Management Audit
CalsgrforTendersto                      Bdeve  o Ev qutionmCntacAwd             ...       Canstucton/Pxecurion                                         * Bank Dsaurssan 0f
Ca 1 for Tenders  Delivery of Equipment                         Banik Tev,ew of Designs. Bic Documenrs, Or DraPt Conrracts.        Camnp erea Srudy
Wor d Bankr-25705






- 57 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
ADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Execution and Management
hunicipal Revenue Generation and Financial Management
1.        The municipalities and the Direct Tax Department (Ministry of
Finance) will focus during the first two years of implementation on
improvements in financial management and on the 1984 update of the property
tax base.l/   In Antananarivo a revision of a portion of the tax base
(rented properties) based on 1978-79 values has been completed, but has not
yet been approved. The project would meet the cost of temporary valuers to
work with existing staff for five months during the 1984 revaluations,
which would cover the entire tax base, plus a local statistician to
supervise execution of the revaluation survey. A micro-computer would be
acquired to assist with survey results and the storage and updating of the
tax roll. With the 1984 survey completed by end 1984, tax demands for
80,000 properties (compared with 65,000 now) would be issued by May-June
1985. Since the Ministry of Finance is planning to computerize all its
fiscal operations, the single micro-computer would be shared between
Antananarivo and Toamasina. Three months' time of a fiscal adviser is
included for assistance in the valuation process, analysis of survey
results, and review of the valuation scale. A computer expert would help
prepare tender documents for the micro-computer, and would then advise on
the evaluation of bids. Temporary valuers, equipment, and supplies would
also be furnished for the 1987 and 1990 surveys. Cost estimates of the
later surveys allow for an increase of 2 1/2% yearly in the number of
taxable properties.
2.        A similar range of equipment, supplies, and staff for property
surveys is included in Toamasina for a total of about one-fourth the
properties now on the Antananarivo rolls. In addition to temporary
valuers, two surveyors/tax officers would be recruited to strengthen the
permanent staff of the Direct Tax Department, and a local statistician
hired to supervise the first two surveys. Collection of the property tax,
which has been inadequate in Toamasina, is the résponsibility of the
Municipal Treasurer, who relies on members and officials of lower level
(firaisana and fokontany) governments to deliver the tax demands and pursue
payments. To improve collection performance, the project would cover the
salaries of five additional assistant collectors for one year and seven
light motorbikes for the team of collectors.
1/  The property tax actually comprises a principal tax (Impôt foncier sur
la propriété bâtie, IFPB) and a supplementary tax (Taxe annexe à
l'impôt foncier sur la propriété bâtie, TAFB). The supplementary tax
was originally a charge for sanitary and waste disposal services,
but as cities have not been able to maintain these services, taxpayers
now view IFPB and TAFB indistinguishably as general revenue taxes.



- 58 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
3.        The Directorate of Financial Affairs in Antananarivo would
centralize all financial operations of the city, including staff
remuneration. A total of 58 people, including 3 Department heads and 22
tax collectors, would comprise the staff of this Directorate. Much of the
responsibility for day-to-day management would be vested in the Assistant
Director, so that the Director can focus on issues of programming,
monitoring, and financial review. With such an arrangement, the Director
of Financial Affairs is expected to be the main source of agenda items for
the Committee for Programming, Monitoring, and Evaluation, which comprises
the Chief Administrative Officer (Délégué Administratif) and all
Directors. This Committee would be the formal channel for city-wide issues
to be reviewed and proposals prepared for submission to the President of
the Executive Committee. The project would support the cost of the
Director of Financial Affairs and two professional staff for two years, in
addition to training (see para. 4.21) and 24 months of advisory assistance
in municipel finance spread over three years. A Director of Financial
Affairs would be appointed by December 31, 1984.
4.        In Toamasina a Deputy Chief of the Accounting Department,
supported initially through the project, would handle project-related
accounts and much of the management of the Department. This will enable
the Chief of the department to assist the President of the Executive
Committee in the tasks of financial planning, coordination, and
evaluation. As technical adviser to the newly-formed Investment and
Finance Committee, for example, the accounts chief would prepare studies
and proposals for consideration by this Committee. The project would
support the salary of the new deputy chief for two years, training for the
chief and deputy chief (see para. 4.21), and a municipal finance expert for
12 months.
Municipal Technical Services
5.        Building on the present organization, units in  Antananarivo
handling street and building maintenance, sanitation, and vehicle repair
would be strengthened. Equipment and materials would be ordered in two
tranches, in late 1984 and in 1986-87, to match the necessarily gradual
buildup of technical capacity within the units. A street maintenance
brigade would repair 400 meters of streets daily, which allows for a
circuit of the 168 km of paved and 24 km of paving-stone streets in the
city every two years. In addition to schools and other public buildings,
the building maintenance unit would repair retaining walls, critically
important in this city built on hills. Numerous retaining walls were
destroyed during 1982 floods, and have not been rebuilt. Moreover, new
equipment and staff training would rejuvenate the capacity for emptying of
septic tanks, to eliminate the present backlog of over 2,000 unsatisfied
demands. A planer/trimmer and other equipment would help the woodworking
unit handle the large volume of carpentry work from primary schools in
addition to the city. At present, good quality stones and aggregate are
produced at the municipal quarry, but in very low volumes. Spare parts to
be acquired would permit the existing stone crusher to be repaired. For
solid waste disposal, the collection trucks, bulldozers, other equipment,
and training provided under the Antananarivo Water and Sanitation
Project2/ meet the city's needs over the medium to long term.
2/ Cr. 1002-MAG.



- 59 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
6.        The one essentially new unit in the organization of technical
services is the Planning and Studies Division (PSD), responsible for design
and coordination of urban investments and monitoring of municipal projects
carried out by others (e.g., SEIMAD). The engineering adviser to the
Director of Urban Development would also assist the civil engineer heading
PSD. Prior to project completion, the engineering adviser would recommend
whether the performance and potential role of PSD justifies its being given
more prominence, such as Department status, in the organizational
structure. By December 31, 1984, the civil engineer heading PSD and a
Chief of Vehicle Maintenance, both with qualifications satisfactory to IDA,
would be confirmed in their posts.
7.        Maintenance units would be fully staffed, and training programs
well underway, by the end of 1986. Although the staff for certain tasks
needs to be strengthened, more generally the staffing needs of technical
services units with the project are some 35% less than present totals.
Antananarivo has introduced a policy of non-replacement of retiring or
departing staff, which has reduced the staff complement by about 3%
annually for the past two years. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that this policy would continue, which would result in a reduction of
technical services staff from 1,337 to about 1,200 by the late 1980s.
8.        All technical services in Toamasina are currently grouped into a
single Street Maintenance unit. Ten distinct services have
informally evolved within this grouping, many without even nominal
leadership. During preparation and appraisal a reorganization into Works,
Maintenance, and Technical Design Departments was proposed, and is now
being considered. As agreed at negotiations, Toamasina would put into
effect an organization plan satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1984.
9.        A road surface team to be created would maintain the 64 km of
hard-surface streets and 26 km of sandy roads in Toamasina, while
additional teams would scour the drainage canals. For any large-scale
repairs the city would continue to rely on the local Public Works
department. As in Antananarivo, vehicle maintenance workshops would be
furnished with repair equipment, gasoline pumps, and materials. The major
focus in Toamasina however would be on solid waste, since collection now
covers only 60% of the city and there is no organized dumping. Under the
project, collection would be extended to the entire city through the
introduction of movable metal containers, operated with container trucks.
Following a review of designs prepared by the city, the presently scattered
dump sites would be consolidated and maintained at a new public site 8 km
northwest of the city.
10.       The above measures would permit Antananarivo and Toamasina to
ensure adequate maintenance of project operations as well as other
municipal facilities.



- 60 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
Upgrading
11.       Supervisory responsibility for all upgrading would lie with the
two municipalities, which however would delegate actual execution to
SEIMAD. JIRAMA would install water and public lighting networks.
Construction of standpipes, washing points, and solid waste containers
would be done by local contractors and artisans supervised by SEIMAD.
Administration of housing and sanitation loans, recovery of loan charges,
and construction supervision would also be the responsibility of SEIMAD.
12.       About 1.8 ha of land in private ownership would be acquired for
drainage channels and roads in Isotry. In Toamasina an Expropriation
Decree would also be issued, as part of the process of transferring
land in the project area to municipal registry. The city would then
regularize land tenure through delivery of an Occupancy Permit to all
residents who at present have no written evidence of tenure. The Occupancy
Permit, to be delivered free, would (a) confirm occupancy status, and (b)
indicate that the steps required for obtaining title to the plot would be
defined by the municipalities at a later date. The Occupancy Permit would
be upgraded to a provisional land title ("concession provisoire") when plot
boundaries are determined and staking is carried out. When in addition,
the city is paid for the plot itself, the provisional title would become a
full title. Transfer of land for the Ankirihiry Health Center to the
Ministry of Health would be a condition of disbursement for construction of
the Health Center. Completion of land expropriation procedures would be a
condition of disbursement for the upgrading component (except Antananarivo
community facilities) in each city.
13.       Training in construction and improvement of septic tanks at
Isotry would be handled by a Sanitation Unit comprising 1 unit manager and
4 technicians/trainers, to be created in the city Directorate of Health and
Cultural Affairs.  Incremental operating costs and salaries would be
supported for a period of two years for this unit, which would be launched
in late 1986 after the bulk of drainage investments are completed.
14.       SEIMAD would recover housing loans from beneficiaries at 12% over
15 years, including 1 year of grace. The 2% spread of repayments over the
subsidiary loan obligations of 10% should provide an adequate reserve
against arrears. A Guaranty Fund equal to 10% of repayments of principal
and interest would however be established to supplement the 2% risk
allowance. This Government grant of FMG 6 million would be a callable
reserve, transferable to SEIMAD and non-recoverable in the event of use. A
14% markup on sales of materials to loan recipients would cover SEIMAD's
administrative overheads.
15.       When expanded to a Health Center, the Ankirihiry facility would
be staffed with a doctor, 4 midwives, 5 nurses, 1 social assistant, and 6
support staff. Assurances on these points have been received from the
Ministry of Health, and would be reconfirmed at negotiations.



- 61 -                             ANNEX 8
Page-5 of 7
Employment and Income Generation
16.       The three production units (brick and tile plant, carpentry
workshop, and toolmaking workshop) would be managed as cooperatives with a
manager and treasurer, assisted by CENAM technicians. A cooperative
already constituted ("Tsy Resy") employing 45 people would produce extruded
bricks and compressed roofing and flooring tiles at a 25-ha site 22 km
north of Antananarivo. Transfer of the site to CENAM is nearly completed.
The access road leading to the site would be resurfaced along the final 8
km by the Public Works Ministry, and would be maintained thereafter by 2
skilled workers hired by the production unit. Portions of the site would
be raised through filling, to further lessen the risk of flooding from the
adjacent Ikopa River. A Hoffman oven, extruder and mixer, and other
equipment would be acquired to produce high-quality bricks to be sold at an
estimated 16% profit margin. The yearly output of the carpentry workshop,
employing 9 people, would be 1,200 windows, 600 doors, and 130 m3 of
planking for roof supports. It will share a 1,500-m2 site in southern
Antananarivo with the toolmaking workshop, in which 12 people would produce
about 200 wooden wheelbarrows, 800 shovels, 100 picks, 200 hammers/mallets,
200 pairs of pliers for formwork, metal supports, saws, and other tools.
Transfer of the carpentry/toolmaking site from the Public Works Ministry to
CENAM is underway.
17.       Studies carried out during preparation show satisfactory market
prospects for each production unit. Engineering advisers specializing in
each product will be hired on a short-term basis to update these marketing
studies prior to the start of operations, and again, if required, after
full production is reached. Half of brick and tile sales are expected to
go to large customers and half to small. Based on the market study for
wood products completed in April 1983, a 2% market penetration would be
required for the carpentry workshop to meet its sales targets. This is
achievable after 2-3 years of operations. Production costs for toolmaking
were estimated using the current, historically high prices for scrap metal.
18.       SEIMAD would form small contractors into 16 teams to carry out
smaller civil works such as washing stations, concrete solid waste bins,
and improvements at the Isotry Market (see also para. 4.12). This
involvement of about 130 semi-skilled and 170 unskilled workers would total
close to 850 man/months, not including those contractors and artisans hired
by residents under housing and sanitation loans.
19.       An employment unit chief responsible to the CENAM Director
General would coordinate activities of the production units. Designation
of a unit chief with qualifications satisfactory to IDA would occur no
later than December 31, 1984. The unit chief would rely on existing CENAM
divisions, notably those of accounting, product studies, marketing, and
testing workshops, for specialized help.  An engineer would advise the unit
chief for a period of three years. The products engineers (para. 17 above)
would participate on a periodic basis, mostly during formation and startup
of the production units. Creation of the carpentry and toolmaking
cooperatives would be conditions of disbursement for the respective
sub-components.



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
20.       Use of loan proceeds by production units would be monitored
directly by CENAM. Records of loan approvals and repayments would however
be kept by the Rural Development Bank (BTM), which has good experience in
records management. CENAM advisers and staff would ensure that loans are
repaid on time, since further financing would be jeopardized in the event
of arrears. For this reason and because artisan credits are generally
recovered more readily when artisans work together at one location rather
than individually around the city, recovery of amounts lent to the
production units is not expected to pose major problems.
Transport and Traffic Management
21.       As its first priority, BCT would supervise the traffic management
improvements in Isotry Center and other junctions in Antananarivo. Works
at Isotry Center include placement of metal stanchions along Rue
Raketamanga to separate pedestrians from vehicular traffic; displacement of
street borders and repair of sidewalks; painting of crosswalks and parking
areas; and construction of 6 bus shelters. Lane markings, signs, and
automatic traffic lights would be installed at 5 "blackspots" around the
city that have been responsible for numerous traffic injuries and property
damage. These actions should be completed by the end of 1985.
22.       Shortly before completion of the traffic management schemes, BCT
would launch a series of studies of traffic and transport problems in
Greater Antananarivo. A study of street conditions in central
Antananarivo, on behalf of the Directorate of Urban Development, would be
the first to be carried out. This study would assess the deficiencies in
surfaces and foundations of streets and roadway edges in the central city,
and would prepare preliminary designs and costs of improvements. A local
traffic engineer heading BCT, who would be supported for three years wtthin
the project, together with survey teams would prepare a framework plan for
traffic management in Greater Antananarivo. Based largely on
updates of existing information for the central city3/ and on new surveys
in the suburban municipalities, this framework plan would identify the most
urgent traffic measures and regulations required for the central
municipality and for "blackspots" in the other municipalities. This study
would also be conceived as a feasibility study, producing designs and cost
estimates of the recommended measures. The third study, of the
restructuring of public transport, would have a more limited objective,
that of diagnosing management and financial problems of the two bus
companies operating in Antananarivo. The main objective would be to lay
the groundwork for a more informed discussion of the future of public
transport, taking account of the macroeconomic environment and the need to
reduce operating subsidies of public companies.
3/ Couillaud, "Diagnostic pour la préparation d'un plan de circulation et
d'un plan des transports en commun dans l'aire métropolitaine
d'Antananarivo," 1981; E. Dimitrov, "Rapport de mission," 1978; E.
Dimitrov, "Recommandations sur la prévention des accidents de la
circulation à Antananarivo," 1973, and "Rapport mission de retour,"
1974; Meyer, "Le Transport en commun à Antananarivo," 1972.



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
age 7 of 7
23.       A transport and traffic adviser would assist the head of BCT and
his 3-person staff for a total of 12 specialist-months spread over two
years. A review of experience would be undertaken by the end of 1988, so
that BPU could recommend an appropriate framework for traffic management in
Greater Antananarivo into which BCT would be integrated.
Project Management and Studies
24.       BPU would consist of 6 people: a Chief Administrative and
Financial Officer, Chief Technical Officer, Accountant, Secretary, and
Driver in addition to the Project Director. While the Director would be
assisted by an expatriate adviser over the first four years of the project,
BPU would assign other technical advisers directly to the implementing
agencies. Terms of reference for technical assistance are available in the
Project File. Selection of a Chief Administrative and Financial Officer
and Chief Technical Officer would be completed by December 31, 1984.
25.       The Public Works minister would exercise supervision ("tutelle")
over BPU activities to ensure that they conform to the letter and spirit of
agreements reached on execution of the project. Salaries of BPU staff
would be fully supported within the project over the first four years, then
at 50% for the remaining two years during the evaluation of its performance
and transition to the status of a fully integrated governmental service.
Estimates of BPU operating costs and salaries that would be met by the
Public Works Ministry during this period amount to FMG 4 million
(US$10,000) in 1988, rising to FMG 10.2 million (US$25,500) yearly by
1991.
26.       In addition to the SEIMAD management audit (see para. 4.09), BPU
would supervise a study to revise legislation governing urban land
management. Because this study affects several branches of Government,
discussion of draft terms of reference with the Finance and Interior
Ministries, the main Antananarivo municipality, and the Planning
Directorate was made a condition of negotiations. The study would be
carried out in two phases, beginning in 1985. A first report would review
the current situation and outline what instruments (land taxation;
anti-speculation measures; public acquisition in advance of need;
improvements in the expropriation process) could be brought to bear to
improve public land management. The Government would react to the report
within three months of receipt, after which a second report would describe
in detail the resource requirements, staffing, and organization required to
put into effect the measures adopted.



- 64 -
ANNEX 9
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA                                                 Cumulative        Undisbursed
Fiscal      Semester            Disbursements    Disbursements          Balance
Year        Ending              Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount    %
1984        December 1983        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      12.80  100.0
June      1984       0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       12.80  100.0
1985        December 1984        0.70    5.5        0.70    5.5       12.10   94.5
June      1985       0.50    3.9        1.20    9.4       11.60   90.6
1986        December 1985        0.69    5.4        1.89   14.8       10.91   85.2
June      1986       0.70    5.5        2.59   20.3       10.21   79.7
1987       December 1986         1.17    9.1        3.76   29.4        9.04   70.6
June      1987       1.28   10.0        5.04   39.4        7.76   60.6
1988        December 1987        1.32   10.3        6.36   49.7        6.44   50.3
June      1988       1.26    9.9        7.62   59.6        5.18   40.4
1989        December 1988        1.17    9.1        8.79   68.7        4.01   31.3
June      1989       1.05    8.2        9.84   76.9        2.96   23.1
1990        December 1989        0.89    6.9       10.73   83.8        2.07   16.2
June      1990       0.72    5.7       11.45   89.5        1.35   10.5
1991        December 1990        0.57    4.4       12.02   93.9        0.78    6.1
June      1991       0.41    3.2       12.43   97.1       0.37    2.9
1992        December 1991        0.37    2.9       12.80  100.0        0.00    0.0



- 65 -
Akrmx 10
1BWCASCAR                                      Page 1 of 2
llmfcipality of haitwmivo: Fesee  S Fx EPntioe 1979-82
(FM million)
REVENUE                                        1979           1980           1981       1982
Property taxes
- principal (IFPB)                            185.3          356.3         279.3       244.8
- lard (IFT)                                    1.0            4.2           6.1         11.0
- supplementary (IAFB) (a)                    119.4          278.0         354.0       30B.8
Coemircial taxes (b)                              -            -            52.8           -
Other dirert taxes (c)                         52.8           44.0          73.6        28.0
Indirect taxes (d)                             64.5           74.5          82.2        74.9
Income frcm property and services             144.7          157.3         161.1       162.5
other receipts                                623.7(e)        23.6          20.7        30.5
Government grants and transferred taxes       282.7          586.5         475.0       496.4
TOTAL CilERAL REVENUE                       1,474.1        1,524.4       1,504.8     1,356.9
Exceptional and additional receipts (f)       603.9          478.5         711.5       910.4
TCIAL REVENUE                               2,078.0        2,002.9       2,216.3     2,267.3
ilmicipal services
- personnel                                   828.5          932.8         842.1       891.3
- operatirg                                   330-.0         402.1         322.9       333.7
Investments                                   42.1            70.1          62.0        93.1
Various                                        25.6           14.0          28.9        35.6
Grants to others (g)                          175.7          177.5         173.0        77.2
IOTAL GENERAL EXPENDITURE                   1,401.9        1,596.5       1,428.9     1,430.9
Exceptional expenditure (h)                   595.3          405.7         703.9       817.9
TOTAL EXPENITURE                           1,997.2         2,002.2       2,132.8     2,248.8
SURPLES                                        80.8            0.7          83.5        18.5
(a) inixluding formerly separate taxes on drainage, cleansirg and weste disposal.
(b) turnaver tax
(c) mainly vehicle tax
(d) a variety of taxes on entertainnent, advertisemerts and the sale of alcoholic beverage
(e) mainly an exceptional governrent grant
(f) the sarplus from the previous year and (mainly) special governentgrants for stocking and
distributing edible oils
(g) mainly grants to low-er tiers of local geverrment
(h) mainly special edible oils programs.
Source: Administrative Accounts



- 66 -
Ahnx 10
Page 2 of 2
»mitciplity of 2as1im: fve6 am Emmiibae 1977-1981
(FM million)
REVENUE                                1977         1978       1979    1980     1981
Property tames
- prinripal (IEP8)                     27.8       16.0        2.1     33.3     21.6
- land (IFT)                            2.1        0.7        0.2      0.2      0.2
Ca.ercial tames (a)                     8.8        0.5         -       4.5     66.1
Other direct taxes (b)                 19.7        17.1       4.9     23.2     17.5
Indirect taxes                         49.4       54.0       62.9     59.1     59.6
Inxw.e fran property arnd services     35.4       31.4       39.7     45.7     48.9
Other receipts                          3.0        0.8        1.0      0.7      1.2
Governrent grants and transferred taxes  103.8    94.8       96.9    104.3     86.5
TOAL ERAL REVENE                      250.0      215.3     207.7    271.0    301.6
Exceptional receipts (c)                4.8        19.6     195.7    127.0     42.7
TOTAL REVENUE                         254.8       234.9     403.4    398.0    344.3
EXPBNDI1U1E
kmicipal services
- persomel                             87.7       88.5       94.1    107.5    104.5
- operatirg                           125.4       108.2     164.4    187.8    101.2
Investoents                             0.7        0.1      11.3      29.8     38.7
Variooe                                11.6        1.6        3.5      3.5      2.8
Grants to others (d)                    9.9        3.7       17.6     20.5        -
TTAL GE2ERAL EXPENDITUÆ               235.3       202.1     290.9    349.1    247.2
Exceptional experxliture (e)               -      12.7       29.1      6.2     53.8
OTAL EX>ENDITUPE                      235.3      214.8      320.0    355.3    301.0
StRPUJS                                19.5       20.1       83.4     42.7     43.3
(a) turnover tax in 1981
(b) including supplemntary property tax (AFB) and its predecessor taxes
(c) mainly the surplus fran the preceding year, also gevermîent ahvances in 1979 and 1980.
(d) minly grants to lioer tier authorities
(e) ircludes soe infrastructure investment
Source: Administrative Accounts.



- 67 -                       ANNEX 11
NADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Distribution of Household Income: Isotry and Toamasina (unserviced areas)
(FMG per month)
Percentile                   Isotry                Toamasina
1                         5,360                     5,955
10                        17,865                    17,270
20                        25,011                    22,034
30                        30,966                    25,843
40                        35,730                    29,775
50                        41,686                    33,944
60                        48,236                    38,832
70                        57,169                    44,663
80                        68,483                    52,641
90                        89,326                    65,505
100                       238,200                   178,650
Source: Preparation surveys by consultants updated to December 1983
on basis of 6% average annual increase.



- 68 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 10
NADAGA SCAR
UltDAH DEVE1.OPMENT PROJECT
NUNICIPALITY GF ANTHIANARIVO - SOURCES AHOD APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(FmG MILLION)
1983     1984     1985     195J     1987      1988    198?      1990     1991      192      1993     1994
A. SOLURES                                                 -          -                                            --        -
CURRENT:
1. PROPERTT TAYES                 548.00   o37.00   825.00  1015.00  1205.00  1285.00  1350.00  1410.00  1490.00  1590.00  1690.00  1775.00
(INCL, LAND TAX)
2. CO.MMCRCIAL TA'ES               60.00   110.00   105.00   105.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    60,00    60.00    60.00
3. VEHICLE TAX                    120.00   330.00   325,00   325.00   250.00   250.00   250.00   250.00   250.00   250.00   250.00   250,00
4, INDIRECT TAXES                 147.00   200.00   190.00   190.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150l00   150.00   150.00
5. INCOIE FR0. PROPERTI
AND SERVICES            180.00   226.00   252.00   284.00   324.00   364.00   364.00   364.00   364.00   364.00   364.00   364.00
6. OTt4R FRECEIPTS                 30.0N    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    20,00    30.00    30.00
,. EOVE?.R.ENT GRP.NTS            500.N   500.00   500.00   500.00   500.00   500.00   500 00   500.00   500.00   SO.00   503.00   500.00
8. SURCHAREE                        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    25.93    38.74    46.49    4t.49    46.Ai    46.49    46.49
SUD-TOTAL                    1585.00  2033.00  2227.0  2449.00  2S19.00  2664.83  2742.74  2810.49  2890.49  2990,49  30i0.49  3175.49
CAPITAL - SUBSIDIARY LOAN
DISEURDBEhEETS
9, TECHNICAL SERVICES               0,00   585.90   295.24    48.37    48.37    48.37    38.54      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
lO.ISOTiR  UPERADIF.G -             0.0-SIE  0.0  3.87   120.59   182.39    53.67    55.65  0.00    0.00     0.00    O0.0       0.00     0,00
11.ISOTRY UiREFADING - OFF-SITE     0.00     6,40   152.83   170.07   210.10    35.40      0,00     0,00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
l2.TRAFFIC  ?.NAGEtOE'NT            O.N       . 0.00   108.4B    35.96   0.00     0,00     0.00     0,00     0,00      0.00     0.00     0.00
13.MUNICIPAL REVENJUE               O.N    22.88      5.19     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
14.ISOTRe - CC.i. FACILITIES        0.00     0.00    31.61     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.0*     0.00     0.00
SUP-TOTAL                       0.00   619.05   713.94   436.79   312.14   13S.42    38.54      0,00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0,00
TOTAL: SOURCES               1585.00  2652.05  2940.94  2885,79  2831.14  2804.25  2781.28  2810.49  2890.47  2990.49  3090.49  3175.4?



-69 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 10
a. APPLICArIONS
CURENT
15.ADMlINISTRAtIVE SERVICES       110.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00   114.00
16.MEOICALY SOCIAL 1
EDUCATIONPAL         117.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00  150.00
17.TECHNICAL SERVICES 1 GARAGE
STAFF:               663.00   643.00   623.00   605.00   566.00   569.00   552.00   536.00   519.00   504.00   489,00   474.00
OPERATING:           174.00   300.00   438.00   438.00   4iB,00   438.00   438.00   438.00   438.00   438.00   438.00   438.00
18.OTHER SERVICES                 162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162,00   162.00
19.IMVESTMENTS                     93.00    93.00    93.00    93.00    93.00    93.00    93.00    93.00    93,00    93.00    93.00    93.00
20.GRA.NTS t OTHER                113.00   113.00   113,00  '13.00   113.00   113.00   113,00   113.00   113,00   113.00   113.00   113.00
21,JIRAMA SUPPLIES                150.00   400.00   400.00   400.00   400,00   400.00   400.00   400,00   400.00  400.00   400.00  400.00
9UE-TOTAL           1582.00  1975.00  2093.00  2075.00  2056.00  2039.00  2022.00  2006.00  1989,00  1974.0  1959.00  1944.00
LOAN REPAYMENTS
22.TECF'NICAL SERVICES              0.00     0.00     0.00   154,56   232.44   245.20   257.96   270.72   126.33    48.45    35.69    22.93.
23*UPGRADINS - i; SITE              0.00     0,00     0.00     0*00     0.51    16,37    40.35    47.41    54.73    54,73    54.73    54.73
24,UFGRAGINri - GFF SITE            0.00     0,00     0.00     0.00     0.84    20,94    43,30    70.93    75.59    75.59    75.59    75.59
25.TRAFFIC M4sNAGEMENT              0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    14.27    18.,9    18.99    18.99    18.9?    18.99    18.99
26.JUNICIPAL REVENUE                0.00     0.00     0,00     6,04     7.40     7,40    7.40      7.40     7.40     1.37     0.00     0.00
SUR-TOTAL                       0.00     0.00     0,00   160.60   241.19   304,19   368.00   415.45   283.04   199,13   185.00   172.24
CAPITAL - PROJECT IM.VESTMIENTS
27JTECHNICML SERVICES               0.00   585.90   295.24    48.37    48.37    48.37    38.54     0.00     0.00     0 , 1     0,C     0.00
8.UPGRA8ING - ON-SITE              0.00      3.87   120.59   182.39    53.67    55.65     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00
29.UPGRADING - OFF-SITE             0.00     6.40   152.83   170.07   210.10    35.40     0.00     0.00     0.00  3.00        0.00     0.00
30.TRAFFIC   NAr3GENENT             0.00     0.00   108.48    35.96     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
31.MUNICIPAL REVENUE                0.00    22.88    5.19      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     00       0.00     0.00
32JS1TRY - COrnf. FACILITIES        0.00     0.00    31.61     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
taU-TOTAL                       0,00   619.05   713.94   436.79   312.14   139.42    39.54     0.00     0.00     0>00     0.00     0.00
TOTANL APPlCTIONS            1582.00  2594.05  2806.94  2672.39  2609.33  2482.60  2428.54  2421,45  2272.04  2173.13  2144.00  2116,24
EALACE:  PANKLAL)               3.00    58.00   134.00   213.40   221.81   321.65   352.74   389.04   618.45   817.36   946,49  1059.25
BALANCE: (CUMULATIVE)           3.00    61.00   195.00   408.40   630.21   951.96  1304.60  1693.64  2312.09  3129,45  4075,94  5135.19



- 70 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 10
MADA6ASCAR
URBAN DEUELOPMENT PROJECT
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS - ?WNICIPALIIY OF TIDAASIN
(FMG NILLION)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987        1988   l99       1990     l991     1992     193      1994
A. SWRCES 
1. PROERTY TAXES                                    57.77    69.53   125.95   127.53   120.74   112.03   116.05   121.15   126.00   131.04   136.28   141.73
(INCL. LANO TAX)
2. COMECIAL TAXES                                    5.00   13.00    13.00      5.00    5.00     5.00     5.00    5S00      5.00     5.OO     5.00     5.00
3. VEJICLE TAX                                       6-00     6.00     6.00    6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00     6.0
4. INDIECT TAX                                      60.00    70.00    80.00    90.00    90.00    90.00    90.00    90.00    90.00    90.00    ".00    9.0
5. INCOCE FRON PPOPERTY
AND SER'C'ES                              50.20   60.20    78.20    78.20    78.20    78.20    78.20    78.20    78.20    78.20    78.20    78.20
6, MguOEONIT GRANTS                                 94.00    94.00    94.00    94.00    94.00    94.00    94.G0    94.00    94. 0    94.00    94.00    94.00
7. SURCARSE                                          0.00     0.00     0.00    22.13   33.20    39.83    39.83    39.83    39.83    39.83    39.83    39.B3
SUD-TOTAL                                      272-97   312.73   397,05   422.86   427.14   425.06   429.08   434.18   439.03   444.07   449.31   454.76
CAPITAL: SJPSIODART LCAN
OISIREBSENNTS
h. TECHNICAL SERVIOES                                0.00    43.90    63.08   187.79   187.79   21.49    19.17     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
9. oPGRAZING - LAN2                                  0.00    53.94   215.74    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.10     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00
10.LIPGPAOI#G - ON-SITE                              0.00     0.00   103.98  203.33    49.37     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0v
11.UPGRADIMG - 0FF-SiTE                              0.00    0.00      0.00    17.10    82.40    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.»0
12.PROPERTY TAX - CCU.ECTION                         0.00    4.76    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
13.FINANCIAL MANAKEMENT                              0.00    27.73    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.N      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
SU-TOTAL                                         0.00  130.33   382.80  409.22   319.55   21.49    19.17       C*Xv    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
TOTAL SORCES                                   272.97  443.06   779.85   831.08   746.69   446,55   448.25   434.18   439.03   444.07   449.31   454.76



- 71 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4of 10
I. AffllCATIONS
14.HAYOR'S OFFICE I COECTION SERVICE                17.79    17.79    17.7?    17.7?    17.79    17.7?    17.7?    17.79    17.7?    17.7?    17.7?    17.79
15JHYGIENEF SANIlATION I
EDUCATI.i                              16.76    16.76   16,76   16.76    16.76    16.76   16.76    16,76    16.76    16.76    16.76    16.76
16.TECHNICAL CERVICES S YEH. iAINTENANCE           141.12   165.19   189.26  2i3.33   213.33   213-33   213.33   213-33   213.33   213.33   213.33   213.-83
17.CVERHEADS I GEN. ADMINISTRATION                  30.10    30.10    30.10    30.10    30.10    30.10    30.10    30.10    30-10    30.10    30.10    30.10
18.IN)ESTKENT                                       38.68    31.68    38.68    38.68    38.68    38.68    38.68    38.68    38.68    38-6U    38.68    38.68
19.OTHER                                             2.82    2.92    2-82       2.82    2.82     2.82     2.82     2.82    2.82      2.82     2.82    2.82
LOI REPAYHENTS
20JTECHNICAL SERVICES                                0.00    0.00    0.00    11.58    28.22    77.76   127.30   138.03   126.45   109.81    60.27    10.73
21.UPGRADING - ON SITE                               0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00    13.67    40.41    46.90    46.90    46.90    46.90   46.90
22.UPGRADING - OFF SITE                              0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0,00    2.25    13.09    13.07    13.09    13.09    13.09
23.PROPERTY TAX t FINANCIAL
MAWAGEMENT                              0.00    0.00    0.00       8.54     8.54     8.54     8.54     8.54     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
WI-TOTAL                                       247.27  271.34  295.41   339.60   356,24  419.45   497.98   526.04   505.92   489.28   439.74   390.20
CWITAL: PROJECT ACTIVITIES
2O.TECMICAL £EFvICiS                                 0.00    43-90   63.08  187.79  187.78   21,49    19.17        0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
25.UP5RADING - WU                                    0.00    53.94   215.74     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
26.UPGRADING - C-I'E                                 0.00    0.00   103.98   203.33    49.37     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.N      0.00     0.00     0.0
27.UPRADlING - OFF-SITE                              0.00     0.00     0.00    17.10    82.40    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0-00     0.00     0.1D
2M.PROPERrY TAX - COLLECTICN                         0.00     4.76     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0      0.00     O.h
29.FINANCIAL iIANAGENENT                             0.00    27.73     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0      0.00     o.0
Sui-TOTAL                                        0.00   130.33   382.80   408.22   319.55    21.49    19.17    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.'J
TOTAL ArLICATIONS                              247.27   401.67   678.21   747.82   675.79   440.94   517.15  526.04   505.92   489.2e   439.74   390.-2
:MAL B" CE                                      25.70    41.39   101.64    83.26    70.90    5.61   -68.90   -91.86   -66.89  -45.21      9.57    64.56
N1JLATIVE BALANCE                               25.70    67.09   168.73  251.99   322.89   328.50   259.60   167.74   100.l8    55.64    65.21   129.77



72 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 10
Assumptions concerning Financial Forecasts for Municipalities
A. Municipality of Antananarivo
1.        Forecasts of revenue and expenditure are based on actual
performance over the years 1980-1982, with exceptional features during
those years eliminated.  Items that have been independently estimated and
projected are described below:
(a). Estimates of property tax revenue (line 1) assume that tax
demands for 1984 will be based on the revised scale of
values based on 1978-79 surveys, and that a further revision
of values derived from the proposed 1984 survey will be
incorporated into 1985 tax demands. Property taxes are
estimated to be recovered at the following rates:
-- 30% in the first year following the issue of tax demands
=- 35% in the second year following the issue of demands
-- 10% in each of the third and fourth years.
(b). Government payment of arrears of municipal taxes over the
years 1984-1986 as follows:
=- Commercial Tax: FMG 140 million (line 2)
-- Vehicle Tax: FMG 230 million (line 3)
-- Alcoholic Beverage Tax: FMG 130 million (line 4).
(c). Revenue from municipal property and services (line 5) is
assumed to increase as follows:
-- leasing rents: plus 100% over five years beginning 1984
-- market rents and charges: plus 140% over five years
beginning 1984
-- revision of charges for municipal services (e.g.,
emptying of septic tanks) in proportion to half the
increase in costs.
2.        The surcharge (line 8) is levied on residents of Isotry, the
capital expenditure being recovered over 30 years at 12% per year.
3.        Expenditure on technical services and garage (line 17) reflects
the project proposals. Staff costs are reduced 3% per year throughout the
project period and operating expenses are increased over two years to the
level required by the project.



- 73 -
ANNEX 12
Page b ~of 10
4.        No change in current collection performance is assumed.
5.        A payment to JIRAMA (line 21) for annual water and electricity
supplies is included at FMG 150 million in 1983 and at FMG 400 million (the
estimated amount billable by JIRAMA) thereafter.
6.        Project components appear as funds made available by the
Government from the IDA credit and its own resources (lines 9-14), as
matching items of expenditure (lines 27-32), and as repayments of funds
loaned (lines 22-26).
B. Municipality of Toamasina
1.        Forecasts of revenue and expenditure are based on actual
performance over the years 1979-1981, adjustments being made to eliminate
exceptional features. Items that have been independently estimated and
projected are described below:
(a). Property tax receipts are based on the following schedule of
tax demands being issued:
== 1984: September 1984
== 1985: March 1985
-- 1986 and thereafter: March of the year
(b). Recovery of taxes is expected to improve in the following
manner:
-- demands issued in 1980-1983: 35% recovery in the first
year after issue of demands; 25% in the second year; 5%
in the third year
-- demands issued in 1984 and onward: 40% recovery in the
first year after issue of demands; 30% in the second
year; 5% in the third year.
2.        Tax revenue estimates for 1980-1983 are based on current property
values and tax rates. The product for 1984 assumes an increase of FMG 50
million (estimate of Provincial Direct Tax Department and of appraisal
mission) of which the municipality's share is expected to be 82.9%. In
1985 and subsequent years the product is estimated to increase 4% per year
as a result of additions to the housing stock.
3.        It is assumed that Government arrears of commercial taxes (line
2) will be eliminated (FMG 8 million in each of the years 1984 and 1985).
4.        It is further assumed that indirect taxes (line 4) will be
revalued to 1983 levels, implying a 50% increase implemented over three
years 1984-1986.



- 74 -
ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 10
5.        Revaluation and slightly more effective recovery are expected to
yield the following increases in the product of rent and charges for
municipal property and services (line 5):
-- rents for private property: plus 100% over 1984-1986
-- rents for public property: plus 50% over 1984-1986
-- charges for services: plus 100% over 1984-1986
These increases reflect partial achievement of revenue targets
that the municipality expects to achieve.
6.        Expenditure on technical services and the vehicle maintenance
workshop (line 16) is increased over three years to the level required by
the project.
7.        The surcharge (line 7) represents the repayment of the investment
for upgrading that is chargeable directly to the residents benefiting
(terms are 30 years at 12% per year).
8.        Project components appear in the accounts as funds made available
by the Government from the IDA credit and its own contribution (lines
8-13), as matching items of expenditure (lines 24-29), and as repayments of
these funds that are in the form of loans (lines 20-23).
9.        Cash flows for both cities are in December 1983 prices and
include all taxes and duties.



- !5 
ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 10
INAN DE9EOPIIENT PROJECT
SDURCES MHD 4PLICUTIONS OF PROJECT FUNDS: SEINAD
(FMi MILLION)
1984   1MB      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    IM          1993    19Y4    19
SMIDIART LOMD  DISWRSIENTS
1. DUSINIG LOANS ISOTRY                                      0.00    0.00     0,00   25,58   61.41    15.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2. nUSING LONS IOA1SI                                       o0.e oo 0.00    0.00   44.76   89.52   14.91    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
LON REPAIbNTS
3 ISOTRI                                                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.38   11.4`    13.52   13.52   13.52    13.52   13.52    13.52
4, TOAIASINR                                                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.91   17.74   19.71    19.71   19.71   19.71   19.71   19.71
AULOCATIONS FRON 6UARANTT FU14
5. ISOTMi                                                    0,00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.38    1.28    1.5         1,50    1.S0     1.50    1.50   150
6. TOAASIMA                                                  0.00   0o00    0.00    0.00    0.66    I.S?    2.19         2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19
TOTAL e8R36                                    0.00    0.00    0.00   70.34  1c1.26    62.75   36.92   .6.92   36,92    36.92    36.92    36.7T.
APIICATIONS
DIStlSSENT OF NCUSIN1 LOUES
7. NWISING LOANS ISOTRYe 000    0.00    0.00   25.58   61.41   15.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.FM.
S. NOUSIHG LOUAS TOANSIKA                                    0.00    0.00    0.00    44.76   89.52    14.91      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    o.m
USIDIARY LCOA REPAYIDNTS
9. ISOTRT                                                    0.00    0.00    0,0r    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.36    11.44    13.46    13.46    13.46   13,4.
10.TOUIASINA                                                 0.00    0.00    0.00   0o00    0.00    0.00 o        ,89   17.66    19.62   1.62    19.62    1?.
TOTAL APLICATIONS                              0.00    0.00    OO0   70.34  150.93   30.27    9.25   29.10   33.08    33.08   33.09   33.01
NiWt.ALA NC                                             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.33   32.48   27.67    7.82    3.84    3.84    3.84    3.EA
CWUTIVE 3IMOCE                                          0.00    0.00    0.0      CiOO    10.33    42.81   70.48    78.30   82.14    S5.98   89.82   93-c



- 76 -
ANNEX 12
Page 9 of 10
IRIAN DLOPMIET PROJCT
SOURCS N3 APUICATIONS Of PROjCCT FmDS' CEA1
<FIÇO MILLION)
19M3    1904    1985    186    1987    1918    1909    10    1;             IM      IM       I994    1995
SUPFRT FOR CEtM
t. E00FItENPT ANTI VEHICLES                         0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0o00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.            0.00    0.00
2. LOrAL EXPERIS                                    0.00    4.70   18.27   18.27   10.96    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
'. '«UCLE OFPtATINO costs                           0.00    0.41    0.79    0.79    0.41    000    e-o0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
WISI J.L0CATIffS RIm FRGO£CT
4. 01CK rMO TITLE PLMT                              e.00   129.66    0.00    0.00    0,00    0,00    0.00 o    1.00    0.00    o.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
5. CPNTRY UR(SU                                     0.00   43.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    X.00        .o00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
6. TOOLAIKie I0DRKSAOP                              0.00    37.48    0.im    0.00    0.00    0.0      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
MYrw  lE ppFtQMtt3N URITS
7. CIVlT «i.S                                       0.00    c.00    0.00   14.10   14.10   14.10   14.10   14.10   14.t0   14.10   14.10   14.10   t4.10
8. Ir.  E9UIl. S MAFERI.S                           0.00    0.00    0,00   36.15   36.15   36.15   36.15   36.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
9T PJOCLT ALi.IAT1  FGF
565T hOT IN lRuDJCT                           0.00    1.74    8.40    8.38    8.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
TOTAL S£91                            0.00  226.87   27.46   77.69   70,00   50-25   50.25   50.25   14.10   14.10    14.10   14.10   14.10
8. WI1CÀT51tS        '
Hbl £IPmnT AI.D OpEn1T1   £ES
N0. EMIPET AND EHICLES                              0.00    9.00    0.00    o.-    0.00    o.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- i l, LOcL £Xporis                                 0.00    4.70    18.27   18.27   10.96    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
12.  EH1ICL  OPERATIKS COSTS                        0.00    0.41    0.7o    0.77    0.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 0o00    0.00
13. OpATINS COlTS         r
3UTSITE FRLICI                        0.00    1.74    0.40    8.38    8.38    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0-00    0.00    0.00    0.00
RE1tlSURS£HNT OF CREDIT
14, CIvL OCRAS                                      0.00    0.00    0.00   12.96   12.96   12.96   12.96   12.96   12.96   12,96   12.96   12.96   12.96
15. PL"lT. F3USP. Z RA(ERIALS                       0.00    0.00    0.00   34.38   34,38   34.38   34,38   34.38    0.00    0.0         0.00    0.00    0.00
l6. FU TO BTH                                       0.00    0.00    0.00    2.91    2.91    2.91    2.91    2.91    1.14    1.14    1.14    1.14    1.14
tISWliSiM0T OF CR£DITS
Tg PRD3UCTION UNITS
17. 1RIK MOD IlIE PUfT                              0.00  129. 6     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
18. tARFBTRt OOTTHIp                                0.00   43.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1t.31lNuimlti 6SP                                   0. ---    .00   37.48    00 0.00    0.00  O XDQ 0.00 N X    00    e.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80
10T1L P.PpLICAION)S                   0.00  226.87   27.46   77.69   70.00   50.25   50,25   50.25   14.10   14-10   14.10    14.10    14.10
LAl U ffla                                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    e.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0c



- 77 -
ANNEX I2
______>R                                     Page  10 of  10
MI      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRECT CASH FLOI
<FN6 MILLION)
1904    1985    1996    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    lm             m3
9011<S OF FLUS
l.  IDA CREDIT                              376.78  1219.12  1198.62   972.01   279.27   74.54    46.79    0.00    0.00    0.00
2. GOYERNJET  COUNTEART                     479.91   421.21   323.07   270.11    98.38   31.55    14.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
-U UET ALLOCATIONS
3. HOUSINS LUAN 6UARANTY FUND                 0.00    0.0 0 0.00    0.00         1.04    3.25    3.69    3.69       3.69    3.69
4. PROJECT UNIT STAFF /1                      0.00    0,00    0.00      0.00    3.97      5,13    9.11   10.26   10.26   10.26
lAtENYT OF SUSIDIARY LOANS
5. ATANANARO MUNICIPALITT                     0.00     0.00   160.60   241.19   304.19  368.00   415.45  283.04   199.13   185.00
6. TOMASINA NUNICIPALITY                      0,00     0.00   20.12    36.76    99.97   178.50   206.56   196.44  169,80   120.26
7?  SEIMA                                     0.00    0.00    0.00      0,00    0.00    0.00    9.25   29.10   33.08   33.09
h. CENM LINE OF CREDIT                        0.00    0.00    47.34    47.34    47.34    47.34    47.34    12.96    12.96    12.96
TAL SOURCES                          856.69  1640.33 1749.75  1567*41  834*15  708,31   752.93   52549   428.92  365.25
APMICATION OF FUNOS
9. MNM, REENUE 6ENERATION                   198,74    78.00    47.52   48.96     0.00    0.00    52.78    0,00    0.00    0.00
10. MUNICIPAL TECHNICAL SERVICES            229.80  358.33   436.16   436.15    69.86    57.71    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
Il. IPRADINf:
- ISOTRY                              40.63  305.43   336,98   286.28   138.61    16.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- TOAMASINA                           69.58  365,73  205,66   174.24   87.73    16.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
12. EDPLOYNENT                              235,61   129.95  150.22    61.37    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00
13. ,TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                      20#68  154,62   76.89    2.88    0.69    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,00    0.00
14 PROJECT MANAGEMNT 1 STUDIES               61.65  248,27  268,26   232,24   80,76    15.66    8.65       0b00    0.00    0.00
15. eUARANTY FUND                             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.04     3.25    3.69     3.69    3.69      3.69
16. PROJECT UNIT STAFF                        0.00    0.00    0,00      0.00     3.97    5.13    9.11    10,26   10.26   10.26
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                   856.69  1640.33  1521.69  1242.12   382.66   114.47   74.23    13.95    13.95    13.95
BALANCE 1RASFERRED TO
IFWRASTRUCTURE FUlID                   0.00    0.00  228.06  325.29   451.49  593.84   678.60   511.54   414,97   351.30
COMLATIVE BLACE                        0.00     0,00   228.06   553.35  1004.84  1598,68 2277.28  2788.82  3203.79 3555.09
NOTE: DECENDER 1983 PRICES, INCUDES TAXES,
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES 1 DESIGN 1 SUPERVISION.
/I NOT SUPPORTED DY PROJECT.



- 78 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
UILAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Estimation and Economic Rates of Return
A. Shadow Prices
Shadow prices were used for skilled labor, unskilled labor, and
foreign exchange in all calculations as follows:
a. skilled labor: 1.15 x skilled labor cost (15% of total cost)
b. unskilled labor: 0.5 x unskilled labor cost (10% of total
cost)
c. foreign exchange: 1.2 x all foreign costs.
B. Upgrading Isotry
1.        Capital costs included were all costs of installation of
infrastructure, including off-site; land acquisition; technical assistance;
design and supervision; and physical contingencies.
2.        Costs of operation and maintenance were estimated at 1.5% of
capital costs for the year following startup of works (1986), and 3% of
aggregate capital costs thereafter, land acquisition excluded.
3.        Benefits were estimated as increases in average rental value of
dwellings generated by the project. The increase is assumed to be
proportional to the increase in the total capital stock of housing
imparted by the project. Since project costs represent 25% of the current
value of the housing stock, the increase in average rental value was taken
to be 25% on average. Closer-in residents (of Anatihazo district) directly
adjacent to the improvements would experience a 30% increase in value;
residents in the next zone 25%; and those farthest from the improvements
17%. Average rental value was FMG 6,670 per month in December 1983 prices
without the project, a figure determined from survey estimates in mid-1981
and adjusted for inflation. Although the survey has yielded the best
available estimates of rental values, the results may be subject to
sampling problems and should therefore be interpreted with caution.
4.        The assumed time path of benefits was as follows:
1986: 50% of benefits
1987: 75% of benefits
1988: 90% of benefits
1989 onward: 100% of benefits.
C. Upgrading Toamasina
1.        Capital costs included were all infrastructure costs, including
off-site; the full estimated cost of land acquisition; technical
assistance; design and supervision; and physical contingencies.



- 79 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
2.        Costs of operation and maintenance: (same as upgrading Isotry).
3.        Benefits were measured in the same manner as for for Isotry.  For
Toamasina the increase in average rental value was 50%. The starting
average rental value (December 1983 prices, without project) was FMG 3,860
per month, derived in the same manner as for Isotry.
4.        Time path of benefits: (same as upgrading Isotry).
D. Employment
1.        Capital costs included were costs of physical plant, equipment,
vehicles, and management advisers for each production unit.
2.        Costs of operation and maintenance: assumed 3% of capital costs
yearly. Provision for replacing the Hoffman oven and other equipment after
10 years is included in estimates of annual input costs for the brick
plant.
3.        Benefits are local value added generated by the production units,
measured as estimated turnover less all input costs including salaries and
amortization of equipment. The alternative earnings of cooperative members
in previous employment that would be foregone (estimated at one-third of
benefits) were subtracted from benefits. For the toolmaking cooperative an
additional benefit in local value added, considered equal to 15% of input
costs, represented the savings in foreign exchange from using local inputs
to produce tools.
4.        Time path of benefits: Full benefits would not be reached before
year 4.
E. Municipal Techbncal Services
1.        Capital costs included all vehicles, equipment, technical
assistance, materials, and supplies.
2.        Operation and maintenance cost: equal to operating costs covered
under the project through 1989. Half the total vehicle fleet was assumed
to require replacement every 7 years.
3.        Benefits were considered to be the impacts on property values, as
represented by average housing rental values, stemming from street repairs,
garbage collection, emptying of septic tanks, maintenance of schools, and
other amenities. Numerous studies demonstrate the impacts of amenities on
property values, although direct measurement was not possible in this
case. The question was asked instead: What increase in city-wide rental
values would justify the investments at a 15% rate of return? It was found
that a rate of return of 17% was associated with a rise in rental values of
5%. This is a reasonable increase to expect, given the importance of
efforts to improve services and the resulting difference in physical
aspects of neighborhoods with and without the project.



- 80 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
F. Traffic Management
1.         Capital costs included were all civil works and equipment costs,
technical assistance, design and supervision, and physical contingencies.
2.         Costs of operation and maintenance: Assumed 3% of investment
costs per year, beginning in year 4 (50% in year 2, 75% in year 3).
3.         Benefits were measured as (i) savings in fuel (as a proxy for
vehicle operating costs); and (ii) time savings.
Fuel savings benefits.  Details of calculations:
Gasoline price FM 400/liter. Consumption of average vehicle
(1000 cc) 1.5 l/hr, or FMG 600/hr. Time savings 1 minute at
Isotry, 30 sections at 5 intersections. Number of vehicles per
day (at peak periods only): Isotry 10,462; 5 intersections
51,993. Peak days per year 313 at Isotry; 200 at intersections.
Time savings benefits. Details of calculations:
Savings of 1 minute at Isotry and 30 seconds at intersections,
valued at one-third the wage rate (one-third of FMG 250/hr).
Same number of vehicles per day and peak days per year.



- 81 -
ANNEX 14
MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Aide-Nemoires
Preappraisal mission (December 1982)
Appraisal mission (June 1983)
Preparation Reports
SEIMAD with BCEOM/Groupe Huit: "Etude de factibilité - projet de
développement urbain Madagascar: Rapport Final," 1982.
"L'Organisation du projet et le renforcement des institutions," J.
Nahmias, SGS/SID, 1982 and 1983.
"Report of Technical Mission," I. McDonald, Roger Tym and Partners,
1983.
Mission reports, A. Konye (ILO), 1982 and 1983.
"Analyse économique," A. Anizon, 1983.
"Rapport technique Volet 2: Propositions pour l'assainissement des
finances des fivondronana du Grand Antananarivo," A. Anizon,
UNDP/UNCHS, 1982.
"Discussion of Sanitation Proposals for Isotry," B. Ellis
(consultant), 1982.
Legislation
Ordonnance 70.089 (procurement)
Ordonnance 78.010 (local government revenues)
Ordonnance 74.021 (public acquisition of property)
SEIMAD - statutes
CENAM - statutes
CENAM - BTM Protocol of Agreement
Data and Working Documents
Detailed cost estimates by component
Project costs by time, each component
Terms of reference for technical assistance
SEIMAD: Annual Reports and Financial Statements 1979-1981
CENAM: Annual Reports 1980, 1982
Municipality of Antananarivo: Administrative accounts 1979-1981;
budget 1982
Municipality of Toamasina: Administrative accounts 1977-1981;
budget 1982






MADAGASCAR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRoier To  oeVeOPPCMeENr TURBAIN
ANTANANARIVO: LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
ANTA NA NA P/ VO: LOCALISATION DES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET
-M    ISOIRY-ANAlIHA2O                           EXISTING DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
s,                                                      /5/rlRfF-I ATMNAZ oMO                      [4'"F, "(lf,1OA/tv V t ,(STA,vrT
- ,,                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOIRY CEllIER                ClIANNEL
CENTRVE O/SOI 9f                          CANAIL
O CAfP,frfkS ,FI E RCUATIINO              ERISTING SEWERAOE SYSTEM
OSO5 N C;RCtaîATîa                 F.SS.A' DVEAUX USESS EXISTANT
NEXISTING WATER SUPPLY SSSTEM .        . PIPES
PEt/  EuPOTABLE EXISTANTp           /ItA/IX
PIPES                                j.  PUMPtNG STATION
AfOIù&O.      O/tAUX                                   ~~~~~~~~~~STAViON OF P0MPA4GE
RATRAIENT WORKS                           MAIN   D
SrA T/ONO£ETetv1/EMECVT          e......... M  IN  EVOAD 4Z
-                   -\  \  StA/ON0VPUMPING STATIONS               R EPRNCAPAIE
> \ 9Ej.Æ-» ; ~~~~~~~~~T AVUN/s rE PO,UPAGE                                         f          RA LWAT 
5JUTIOIV   r.£7 "(),VP,4GECtEMIN DE (FR
\  .-\(S   _     RRESEtRVOR                     jCt %  BUSINESS DISTRICT
CENIVrE, 0CMM/ePC/A
RIVE ES
s     ANTANANARIVO FIVONDRONtNA BOLINDARY
_=== _rlwmnM                      (     \  Aehoxîmrrar.nm / Alarabla çÀ\ .  AA*uoj
'         `\0SIZ                                                                               
y                    Q N           l/s//9h-/ teet /O;e//rJ t1y
!   x   X   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,     "i.1            t    4,
4t/t Arl//Ctoet wsE'v-. /                                     /    t cth.e t//e
<i~~~~~~~~~t/ O/t/r0// I/ArdsaT/s                 k Iv,/          nA ',R X O b  lV \  tlpu. 
-d> .       f,, th./                        sif"0
-  -rt..e.îîctt'M    to  0/ y   -p /t/0///t/0/,. ,,   h
? M     NT/                           -    W,'tJ/   -   -_ th.___              _ 






"\                          ~~~~~~~~~~TANZAN>          SEPIEMABER 1983
b-eg a Ceerg,cby                                                                                                                                                        COMAOROS
Éh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>
sud theetrntestise 
Crgcstp  The denem,nt,es                  e.,
-ed ana ,, b-dnôste eeee                                                                                                                                 .52.
psnt th, t-Ce Sc BanC I ai tP                                MOR4FENO
tttetest Cnet t-etsnce Corgetst,en                                                                               W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
_aCTteetetu n es tse                                                                                                                                  0                                      20'
etsCyterntey C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ sttt  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eedCneementC, aCt~~~~~egtsCcsCt                  xT                       y.AKb'
SCCÀ eCUCO,teen          4                          c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADAG    SC    
/7         c.c ~           ~       ~ ~ ~ UBNDEEOPETPRJC
7  j            N..~~~~~POFrD   EVZPPMNUP,1
J                                                                                                                ;'OAM,45" URBN,  DEVELAOPMDEN ST PROJECTJE
j/cc  i  K                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SITES TO BE UPORADED
-r,  ''  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          L   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI TES A 2(H6MB/LITER
/~~~~~~~    "                                                                                 -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADIS
jvc' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                            I                                F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUTES
TAN tMA                                                                                                               CANALS
TANA'MBAO                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA NA UX
ct%K<'  -                                                          .                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANJLtMA  NEIGHBOURHQOD NAMES
ABOLOMADI5RKA
TA     MANOMA< 
S,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                              20       40       9        y       00mt'






t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F.ADAGAS CA R
-____  --                                                                               URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.  -____- - -?   .              -                                            PROJET D,F DEVEZOPPEMENNT URBAIN
ANTANANARIVO: ISOTRY- ANATIHAZO
ROADS AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION,
SEWERAGE, AND STREET LIGHTING
VO/R/F FT COUECrF D0S DFCHtFTS, FAUX USES,
i  -- O-    j    _                                                             FT EECA/RAGE PUBLIC
--ADS AND 5O0 WAt7E 0,,tECTION
r<_  |                                                                                               t . I---  -  > iro+ >l- Frr I' DrFDES vecHÉ r
-1 . .  | I _ 1 1 : RDr!SED 4; rr rlTrl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PG1-1,I
POFrI',f -._'FrF .4' S     T 04
-- _  .                                                                                                          7,77. 7,4497450,4,7 0,70,74447 071774.EK
IA9 UI,17SÉESCES7,.;
GÊ0,   Ua, 7777  7
57W TRAH   PlEE lI 
s      -ACF    r 4 CF
Il.  -f,7         E -l7- IRI
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                                                                                                               ~          ~           ~          ~~~~~~~~ .1Z  588E .  IO  H!       7 ? UG?
'  (   ,                                  | « >           <     - -         j                         __   ;               , g   0                        STRE ET LIC H1 ING-~~~~~~~~~~07,4'40.49707097
i                                          i                    I       >    4                  1   ,;g5;                      fl         -               FA   T roCr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  77474744
I~~~ 7404  1  `                                                                                                                    *7907  07/1- J e,U"nE a,
t                                      t    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r                                                                              t J   1 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0777,,N  7,7R0771,O70 0  7710
TyS7r  Ix  '17  707f, ,I147 t                                                                                                                                          -77  h                                                                         n     vr        h
.T  r  . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ - ~~~~~~~~~~ 1 '-°j! cr :r F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~011'71  7.C
4~~ ~                            _
_ _  _                                               _          _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~77777                                77~   .7   ,747'



- - - - - -



IBRD 17481
- I               -R              -          1       -                                                                        I.                                   .                                       \pDAGASCARIED14
#               __                 -                    -a                        URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVEZOPPEMENT URBAIN
ANTANANARIVO: ISOTRY- ANATIHAZO
STORM WATER DRAINAGE
DRA/INAGiE
I      UMPGADING OF EXOSTAGE   CHANuI L R CSTSAEIFI]
E j AN»tT;HA201 \ .\                                                           M/  L   IN  S lA                  I_                                                                         -   PC =  TURE ACIIITE(
I                                                                              CO,NSTRUCT.CC üF I    TU          CE
UNINED (HAN_NED S
ANAUX EN TjERE
_NE CHUANNES1 POEN
,~~                                             ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~                                                           ~~            ~ ~~~~~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~~ I  045 VEAU CI/E -  >^!  :i      00    `:
L 60 C \ANNE   C `OVE RE: 
CANIVEAUX nCOUEr TS         S
I  J  I                I             -                                                            PHASE,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PII  TAU
I  J           I                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNCARY 0F TNJMP NG S OFAGE BASIN
I            r                                             Il/AlEC C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E BACCU CE TOm VASICA EXCITE CUTURCI
**I                                                     I                        I                                          N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUN CARI OF RIEENTION BA, NI
I                                                          TRUI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EST S11N P5    D C4 CA
-      EMOLI.TCN CF 181TINO DRA NS
'5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-~~~~~  5                                N  I~~~~~~0 do 8          82                                               EUE20
Ni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
,'~~.I.,,                                     I                  I               .---------M-TER






BEC 17486
MADAGASCAR
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
f                       T- -  - 0 :-;: r - PROJET D/f DEVEIOPPF/4MENVT LRBA IN
ANTANANARIVO: ISOTRY-ANATIHAZO  WATER SUPPLY
ANTANANAR/VO: ISOTRY-ANAf//HAZO' EAU POTABLE
a E :                        7                                  o                                   X                        ; 4TAt9Dp:r wlrH rlRT IlYreRANr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"IDP-E WfHFif DRN
-r1,15 b AU11 - T
7|STIE LLA' K IFI
I   !   f   _  1,  T  N  C7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LET~ 
m                                                                                                                                     E~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WITH    F RE    -M)RANT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AII    FF  ,AIA
- -   r9      0             x    l        :              0               X                               a   1Ub ,, *UN"R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, a  ",si
e   SAND (FAAA'TA.A  A/S ILAS(ASAA
o    PA  LLAF  A,
TAL-/AT  A     S  a
A                                                US5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                                                                 A        5h r  n SnHroe:.h:a Y e  h ovr> eL  '  è -, ;
_~~~~~~~A -----  ---                                                                                               _T                                                             IL TP  T  T






IBRD 17488
SEPTEMBER 1983
TANZANIA l4 9         7   nI 5 0                                                                                                  -PMARE
fI            1051---, --                                                                                          o-10'_---                                            URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
t  7  s59  ft                              -           _ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                MCjFRut, Dt uEVcCLQPFEMEf'TN uRBA;N
TOAMASINA: MORARANO- AMBALAKISOA
9 . ;t ,S   t É  f'                                        -         z                                                            <<;WATER SUPPLY, STORM WATER DRAINAGE, ROADS AND
lVo1,>f    95              /                                                                                                                             *7r1JrbAn  .~<'  ,.''''  |  |l  SOLID   WASTE   COLLECTION, AND   STREET  LIGHTING
2<  ~~~~  j  *il~~~~~anilsaa5~~~~~~~~.                                                                                            EAU  POTABLE,  OIA/NAGE*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/A/E   ET COLLECTE  QES OECHETSGLkOkIL  OLS   FCY)'
-                                                                  /                                                                    t2nrann/iz / f N;\1 SC_5éétEr ECZA/RAGE PUBI/C
WATER SUPPEY
FAUI POTABLE£
-a,,                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSIES (ON-S TE
---NET,VIORK
faana lasb bI R     y /RIlSf                                                                                                                                                                                    STATID/ PES
file Vbrd. flaaaSfef i sba~r7 amvI iS    OFNFST bNrAi//tS
Thl, WII B-II OlIS 0f thd             /    /TANFP1PES W lTH F/RE Hv/DRANITS
51f aIllaibùOdb" 10f fie ,51                                               :rna                                                                C ,                                                        *     P BEIC LAJNO DRY FA- L T E'
f Th                                                                                                                                                 PAv5l,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JIT i
aaaiiafîlaiffadnbl,ilafi onill h- '                                                                                                                                                                               E T I  rETWORK
PIAf If Thes Wlor/d Ban/ ana f15                                                                                                                        \\FEFz
pIlailnlal fIl 1da.                                                                                                                                                                                              STANfîPIP P S WTS H  FIRE 5«1 /ANIS
c,,aanOEOA Il/ A,F E  'PISE I sENOEIU/
oIlS flIIfBI,15a1 niy frar sOIf a'afc                                                                                                                    | I                                                    STORM  WATER DRAINAGE
blanlf or l  'IPyla,I          I                                                                                                                                                                                D7AINAGE
budR/TJ 11 ON OF   UONUTROEIION DF
S                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNED -HANlaEia
.5                                                                             S                                                                                                           C   ;)ANIVEAUXT
/i /E                                                                                                               l `   \s   t  sOX CUtVERT-
I  *             O-                                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EI5 El RiAN ORObaSîffOT
/i                    I                                                                                                    Ii                                                                                       PROPfOSEz (i.N UTF I
i / . .~                                                                     1E13 \ 1 ONSTRUCTION 15F
f 0ED EnANNPLS
lOI  C TRIANC01  N
ROADS AND SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
VOI/RIE  F CO/IIPrfF DFS DECIF f5
/RIOPOSLD ,SF15S TE)
MCII                                      _                                                                                            O_ . ._ _ - / \ \ URAS NG OF / XEaaABIT/APRA OF  SE
"                                                                                                                                       PI _AIN __ _____  PRE4lARcYf-CCESZS RPOIASD 11E RESURFACED)
--  I                                                                                                                    110115~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e U,ICSaAWS ESA 15E- A   PEXC' OTIIER
PR MARY ACCEUS 10/IAD TO RBF1 RA RETS.
f) /  5 I                 \                                                              \   \ I                                      /ROPOSYR  F   ,iON-DISRitAA5op>rEtyFCFCsÉLE&~N EIN
/                          ".                                                            \ Q                                          PTISSTEON  51f Il
/  <" _. .      _   S,                                             \                                          PRA  N -C CZF RETNU.A/F  ACCEFS POADS
R SIIAII\TT  I HINE IES
1                                   a                                                l                                                                                                             TON/SI. \SISN 0/ UaAR//ITaE TOLECîNA   iîJS
PR .Apy 1       lOEST
r /                   . i                                                                                                                                     S 4:  \  1 ]    TRENSS EEOS R:T[N
FCIA 1RAOFG 501/C
PRCTO1lSET CN-TE)
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~C jPaIT V SU//i 
Il                                                                                                                                                E/W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EISAFlI!C OS
/   /   |                                                 '                                                                                                  \   <                  0                OO              203 METER,~~~~~~Tif/11555
LOINESl VO TAGE NETWORI0
Olli ~~M10/1V10.%E NEIWPORKT
I11,-  *                                                                                                                                                                                                 *        -@e*-*        O  '  TI*v -*-  C' '''P 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
E       SI              TED~~~~?0  MET//~






____              ______           _________________I18RD    17489
-b                           __*= t e * * * !  SEPTEMBER lORS
I-      -   -  -   -   -  -    -  -                           I                                    I                                                         i-\'O\
'L~~~ ___ n\N
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t    - `
j-        -          ' s                         -       -                                 '     _     -   -   -   -           à                     ô \--
, + . . S . D ---G
-  _ --                  _                                                                 __.=oa t                                                                                        ";'  ~--O- _ 
|                   .-                                              M A  A   A S A                                     -' --   -:-~   _    _- -                                                                                                                    -
.,-                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~URBAN   DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                           WAT .ESFDAAWER                                     DRAINAG
UP BAN                                                        OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATE SPPl?      5508RM WATER DRAINAGE
P Z  , ROJET Df Df VROf,' OE % N TRURBA/N                                                   rRZp-7rE- Ir                            ________ 117g,>p IN  M JF P              ROADS AND OLI WASTE COLLECTION
(_  TOAMASINA:  ANKIRIHIRY- MANGARIVOTRA                                              __   NETWOREK                                 CNSIRJCT N'Ô OT  OOXRTROClRON P'ROES  ON
WATER  SUPPLY, STORM  WATER  DRAINAGE, ROADS  AND                                           U       014 9D5PE                                                                     SCOSDARY ACEESEROA
0--             ~~SOLID  WASTECOL TIN   AND  STETLIGHTING                                                                                               -1
FAU  POT4ABE, DPA/NAGE, VO/IPE  ET COLLECTEL                                                                 l DEIS d2ECIITSR                    54 ,RSEI5N'
f -ECAIRALAG,                                                             LC LAI,YRDPY FAC LIT E S               AT4pnL, ES'C N                         FISANt
I a  l     \    5                                                                                                              r TrANrk                                 LlT  E  HANN LS                       PR MORS . CCFSS ROA  TE
R,  o   f  S _g>AU                 L          _ l U             5ér            E'                                O    TANL E I StRE                            E    ;AN,EA CR  S riris                owSTREET LIGR TINO
L    --  °e   ) ~~~~~b/!'"°°a '                           MrltR.~~l'  d'TN -r/NSAlER5DRANN/                                                                     _4,t                                   PROPOSEEDIS    TD SITE
,  ,.rpSIod bt TTEE                                  W"".d 'ON uE X5~ 0 . 0 6 45oh :;r tre f « . f f rDAArNT zDAN/oPv /DrC                    D'ÂON/ S OLTAGE N"ETIORCR
SOE E1  E W'/ tH IRE  D5RA aTS          UPGROSN  0 F Il58 4R Rt                       r
4 555 ['0554545  5455 SNCYNS4   ~ ~~ENAL 455N NJEDI                  ERI1STIIIGO
h  /                  Fe,eçr~~~~~~ 55/M PS'Od!] th 'rt,-tsAttA5; s: n Ah pz.s ,st'  554 "st 55a4 055 9tLO  VOLTAGE NFTAh E5
W-                                                                                                                    F, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~~~ EtSS
i J / f pr, n t  R-pa.s o5 '   J  v_______P_    ____               ______________1_____                __r"___ _ C___po            __ _I A_ _ _    _____1 _ __ _4 _                                           DTr
t   8,  r e ,6p sStO1anVeHllje ., mV ,`.1",500)CE'0 acç pr  us Loe.n1Jnes                              1,wlud m POIe;. '> '    d9r/ssdoe v e.-/v                 TRANS OPMg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
}   C  50  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TR S~   






1,. N m                    /  X                       /     /       /Xx,Z  X   X                l@RD 174t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOD 7
éy~~~~~~~~~\ MADAGASCAR/ '/,< 
/          EROJErA Dff DE OVEl OPPEfENT URP I         S /</<//11                                          //T
> i       ~~~ANTANANARIVO: ISOTRYrC,ENTE IPROVEEr N'/0TS                                        /n{V
'      X         ,, f                       M. `                     --<e                       v                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,IA
\i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I E t~ 1 1   / :v 



