TP    CREDIT NUMBER 1497 MAG
Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CENTRE NATIONAL DE L'ARTISANAT MALAGASY
Dated                       2      , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1497 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          q4        r        , 1984, betweeT.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC ATION   (hereinafter called the
Association) and CENTRE NATIONAL DE L'ARTISANAT MALAGASY (herein-
after called CENAM).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Republic of Madagascar (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,100,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that CENAM agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CENAM (hereinafter called the CENAM Sub-
sidiary Agreement), part of the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to CENAM on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS CENAM, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CENAM declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿-2-
Part F.1 through F.3 of the Project described in said Schedule
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b) CENAM shall enter into an agreement with Bankin'ny
Tantsaha Mpamokatra (BTM) under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association for purposes of carrying out of Part F.1
through F.3 of the Project.
Section 2.02 (a) CENAM shall cause all good and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the project.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Cre-
dit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CENAM shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports and contract documents for Part F.1 through F.3 of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) CENAM shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part F.1 through F.3
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the faci-
lities and construction sites included in Part F.1 through F.3 of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Part
F.1 through F.3 of the Project, their cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expenditures of
such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) CENAM shall fully cooperate with BPU in the carrying
out of its responsibilities under this Agreement and in the
preparation of the completion report referred to in Section 3.04
(c) of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. CENAM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, CENAM shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the CENAM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CENAM shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part F.1 through F.3 of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the CENAM Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Credit.
(b) CENAM shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of Part F.1 through F.3 of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CENAM of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the CENAM Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CENAM
Section 3.01. CENAM shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. CENAM shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property and, from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. CENAM shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. By December 31, 1984, CENAM shall appoint a
chief of the Employment Unit whose qualifications and experience
shall be acceptable to the Association.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CENAM shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) CENAM shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. CENAM shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than eight months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4,01 (b) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of CENAM thereunder shall terminate on the ear-
lier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify CENAM of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required-or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CENAM:
Centre National de l'Artisanat Malagasy
B.P. 540
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:
CENAM Antananarivo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CENAM may be taken or executed by
the Directeur General or such other person or persons as the
Directeur General shall designate in writing, and CENAM shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By'       Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
CENTRE NATIONAL DE L'ARTISANAT MALAGASY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto      3         day of          ,
198
FOR SECRETARY


