Page  1
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (PRSC-III) 
 
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB2275 
Operation Name 
PRSC-III 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (40%); Other social services 
(40%); PSD (10%), Sub-national government administration 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P098964 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 23, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 6, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 12, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Senegal is located on the West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and 
Monetary Union (WAEMU).  With a population estimated at about 10 million, its economy is 
dominated by a few strategic sectors, including groundnuts, fisheries, and services.  The informal 
sector accounts for about 60 percent of its economy.  Its rural economy frequently suffers from 
drought, and lacks access to basic services and infrastructure, leading to low productivity, high 
emigration and higher poverty rates in rural areas. About half of the population lives in cities, 
including 30 percent in Dakar. 
Senegal continues to benefit from political stability and strong macroeconomic performance.  The 
economy is expected o continue to grow at a 5-6 percent level in the next few years, pushed by 
higher public investment expenditures and gains in productivity in a few key sectors (electricity, 
groundnuts, water) derived from on-going reforms.  The main risks consist of the political cycle, 
with important elections in 2007, which may slow down the reform process, and external shocks 
such as climatic catastrophes and oil price increases.  In spite of a marked reduction in the level of 
poverty over the past decade, Senegal remains a dual economy, with about half of its population 
living in absolute poverty and an average income of less than US$640 per capita.  
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
PRSC-III would be the third of a planned series of three PRSCs in the amount of US$30 million 
each.  The general thrust of the first series of PRSCs is to: (a) improve the effectiveness and 
transparency of the national budget process and expenditure management, including at the 
decentralization levels, as the main instrument to achieve national development goals and reduce 
poverty; and (b) support attainment of PRSP outcomes for improved living conditions of the poor 
Page  2
within the PRSP time horizon.  To the extent feasible, depending on country performance, these 
credits would be aligned with the budget cycle. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The PRSC-III will aim to consolidate reforms in the five priority areas of the PRSC program: (a) 
strengthening budgetary and financial reforms of the State; (b) enhancing financial decentralization 
toward local Governments; and (c) improving health services delivery; (d) promoting wealth 
creation; and (v) increasing the protection of vulnerable groups. These areas were selected in view of 
their contribution to the PRSP objectives and of their complementarities to other assistance programs 
carried out by the  Bank and other donors, notably at the sectoral level (see PRSC-I program 
document for fuller details on the process). 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
In terms of environmental safeguards, it is proposed that the credit be rated as a Development Policy 
Lending (DPL) and therefore will not require an environmental assessment rating as was in PRSC-1 
and PRSC-2. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: (IDA) 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
30 
 Total 
30 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact:  
 
Jacques Morisset 
Title:  
 
Lead Economist 
Tel:  
 
(202) 473-0127 
Fax:  
 
(202) 473-8136 
Email:  
 
Jmorisset@worldbank.org 
 
