Page  1
SENEGAL 
 
THIRD POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT 
 
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2276 
Operation Name 
Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC III) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central Government administration (50%); Other social services 
(40%); Sub-national government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P098964 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 6, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 6, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 14, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Senegal is located on the West Coast of Africa and is part of the West African Economic and 
Monetary Union (WAEMU).  With a population estimated at about 10 million, its economy 
is dominated by a few strategic sectors, including groundnuts, fisheries, and services.  The 
informal sector accounts for about 60 percent of its economy.  Its rural economy frequently 
suffers from drought, and lacks access to basic services and infrastructure, leading to low 
productivity, high emigration and higher poverty rates in rural areas. About half of the 
population lives in cities, including 30 percent in Dakar. 
Senegal continues to benefit from political stability and strong macroeconomic performance.  
The economy is expected o continue to grow at a 5-6 percent level in the next few years, 
pushed by higher public investment expenditures and gains in productivity in a few key 
sectors (electricity, groundnuts, water) derived from on-going reforms.  The main risks 
consist of the political cycle, with important elections in 2007, which may slow down the 
reform process, and external shocks such as climatic catastrophes and oil price increases.  In 
spite of a marked reduction in the level of poverty over the past decade, Senegal remains a 
dual economy, with about half of its population living in absolute poverty and an average 
income of less than US$640 per capita.  
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
PRSC-III would be the third of a planned series of three PRSCs, of which the  general thrust  
is to: (a) improve the effectiveness and transparency of the national budget process and 
expenditure management, including at the decentralization levels, as the main instrument to 
achieve national development goals and reduce poverty; and (b) support attainment of PRSP 
outcomes for improved living conditions of the poor within the PRSP time horizon.  To the 
Page  2
2
extent feasible, depending on country performance, these credits would be aligned with the 
budget cycle. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC-III will aim to consolidate reforms in the five priority areas of the PRSC program: 
(a) strengthening budgetary and financial reforms of the State; (b) enhancing financial 
decentralization toward local Governments; and (c) improving health services delivery; (d) 
promoting wealth creation; and (v) increasing the protection of vulnerable groups. These 
areas were selected in view of their contribution to the PRSP objectives and of their 
complementarities to other assistance programs carried out by the Bank and other donors, 
notably at the sectoral level. 
4. Financing 
 
Source: (IDA) 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The implementation of the PRSC-III is subject to the achievement of a set of prior actions.  
Such achievements, together with other reforms and improvement in monitoring indicators, 
will indicate that several key program benchmarks have been met in the areas of fiduciary 
reforms, decentralization, delivery of health services, wealth creation, and the protection of 
vulnerable groups.  
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
By focusing on economy wide policy and institutional issues, the proposed PRSC is expected 
to help Senegal to implement its PRS in three ways:  First, the reforms supported by the 
operation will help maintain economic growth and improve living conditions of the 
Senegalese population.  Second, the program associated with the Credit will enhance 
ownership and functionality for the Government in policy planning and budget management 
and, so, help it make progress towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). Third, the reforms associated with the Credit will promote coordination and 
collaboration within the Government and among donors, and lead toward a comprehensive 
approach to the delivery of basic social services.  
There are several risks associated with PRSC-III, which can be grouped into three main 
categories: (i) vested interests and the political environment; (ii) vulnerability to external 
shocks; and (iii) weak capacity.  All of these risks could lead to a smaller-than-estimated 
poverty impact of the policies supported by PRSCs.  Yet, the design of the PRSC program 
with a relatively focused agenda and a sequencing approach should help mitigate these risks. 
Page  3
3
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed PRSC program supports Senegal in its effort to alleviate poverty through at least 
four ways.  First, it aims at promoting wealth creation through specific actions in the labor and 
justice sectors, which are viewed as two of the most important obstacles to private sector 
development.  The better functioning of justice and the increased availability of skilled labor, 
with more appropriate regulations, should help improve the investment climate and mobilize 
further private investment.  The expansion of private activities will then fuel economy growth, 
which in turn is expected to reduce the poverty level in Senegal.
1
Second, it seeks to improve the effectiveness of public spending.  By supporting budgetary and 
fiduciary reforms, the PRSC program will help to increase the allocative and operational 
efficiencies of public expenditures in sectors such as infrastructure and social services, which are 
directly linked to the growth and poverty alleviation agenda.  The emphasis on decentralization 
also responds to the need to strengthen the delivery of public services in the regions and local 
communities, where can be found the highest percentage of poor households.  
Third, it improves the stock of human capital, not only through reforms in the labor market but 
also through a set of actions that should yield to better access and quality of health services.  
Over time, a healthier work force will increase labor productivity and, thus, enhance economic 
growth.  
Fourth, it aims at improving directly the living conditions of the most vulnerable groups: 
orphans, single pregnant women, handicapped, and beggars.  These groups, because of their low 
income levels, are often excluded from national and sectoral programs, justifying a targeted 
action to include them.  The link between equity and economic development has been advocated 
in the 2006 Bank’s World Development Report.  The focus of the Bank’s support in the health 
sector to pregnant women and young children should also reduce poverty levels and inequalities. 
The Bank has determined that the specific actions supported under the proposed PRSC-III are 
not expected to have a significant effect on Senegal’s environment and natural resources.  
Although PRSC-III provides some support to measures aiming at strengthening the 
Government’s capacity for environmental and natural resource management such as the 
development of MTEF for the Ministry of Environment, most of the Bank’s support has been 
directed through other projects.  . 
8. Contact 
point 
 
Contact: Jacques Morisset 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-0127 
Fax: (202-473-8136 
Email: jmorisset@worldbank.org 
 
1
Recent analytical work reported by the Government in the PRSP First Progress Report indicates that an increase of 
1
percent in the income per capita is likely to induce a reduction of households living below the level of poverty of 1 
percent. 
Page  4
4
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
