For Phase II Loan Appraisal of Xiaolangdi Proiect
REPORT ON THE REVISED RESETTLEMENT PLAN
AND IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS
Yellow River Water & Hydroelectric Development Corporation
Reconnaissance,Planning & Design Institute, YRCC
February 1997






PREFACE
This report has been prepared, in conformity with the requirements on preparation for Phasell
loan appraisal for Xiaolangdi project in the Memorandum of International Development
Association mission for resettlement of Xiaolangdi project (December 26,1996) as well as in
letter dated January 10, 1997 from the world bank, by YRWHDC YO and RPDI jointly, Section
1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12 have been prepared by YRWHDC YO and the other sections by
RPDI. It has been reviewed by Mr. Scott G. Ferguson from CIPM and Mr. Zhao zhipei from
the world bank, and Mr Scott G. Ferguson put forward revision guidelines for the report
preparation. Here we express our hearty thanks for their help.






Table of Contents
1.   Introduction
2.   Review of Project Impacts
2.1   Damsite Construction Area
2.2   Reservoir inundation Impact
3.   Resettlement Organizations and Management
3.1   System of Organizations and Management for Resettlement Implementation
3.2   Terms of Reference of Resettlement Agencies at Each Levels
3.3   Relation between Resettlement Agencies and Other Departments
3.4  Institutional Capacity of Resettlement Implementation Agencies
3.5   Management and Supervision Status of the Resettlement Project
3.6  Information Management System
3.7   Financial Audit
4.    Resettlement criteria and Planning Principles
4.1   Overview
4.2.  Resettlement Criteria and Compensation Measures
4.3   Resettlement Guiding Ideology and Planning Principles
5.    Resettlement of the Construction Area
5.1   Resettlement Planning For the Construction Area
5.2  Implementation of Construction Area Resettlement
6.   Revised Resettlement Implementation Plans
6.1   Process of the Revision
6.2   Phasing and Schedule for Resettlement Plans
6.3   Phase I Reservoir Area Resettlement Plans
6.4   Phase II and III Resettlement Planning for Reservoir Area
6.5   Summary of Resettlement Planning Changes since 1994
7.    Resettlement Implementation Progress in the Reservoir Area
7.1   Phase I Resettlement Implementation Progress
7.2   Special Items in Agricultural Development
7.4   Rehabilitation of Non-agricultural Activities
7.5   Efforts in Income Rehabilitation in Host Villages
Page 1



7.6   Procurement and Fund Allocation
7.7   Evaluation on Resettlement Progress
7.8   Next Plan for the Resettlement
8.   Revision and Approval of the Resettlement Cost Estimates
8.1   Revised Compensation Standard
8.2 Revised Resettlement Cost Estimate
8.3 Progress of Resettlement Planning and Budget Approval and Necessary Measures
8.4   Approval on Price Difference Adjustment Index
8.5   Temporary Measures of Resettlement Cost Estimate and Compensation Cost
Adjustment
9.   Assessment of Resettled Households' Incomes
9.1   Progress in Survey of Household Incomes
9.2   Survey Methods
9.3  Income Survey for Dam Area Resettlement
9.4  Survey for Phase I Reservoir Resettlers's Incomes before Resettlement
9.5   Organization and Plans of Surveys for Resettlers' Incomes
10.  Social Adaptability Adjustment
10.1  Measures for Social Adjustment
10.2 Non-government Organizations
10.3  Agricultural and Industrial Servic  Organization
10.4  Combination of Relocatees and Host Area Residents
10.5  Women, the Old, Children and Special Poor Families
10.6 Preferential Policies
10.7  Public Participation and Consultation
11   Complains and Grievances and Settlement
11.1 Legal Basis of Complains and Grievances
11.2 Channels and Procedures of Relocatees' Complains and Grievances
11.3  Settlement of Relocatees' Complains and Grievances
12.  Training
12.1  Resettlement Ofricials Training
12.2  Relocatees' Training
12.3  Training Plan
Page 2



Sketch Map of Inundation in XLD Reservoir Area Counties (Cities)
N   1   1          Yl~~~~~~Vianqo coutll^yI
Xiaxia,s county               15                                                         Jiyu,nt city
1322   2.3 |246  428 |                                                              I           '
58.74   0 12                20.49  3.'     _                                              5 1.11
3152  0.05                           5- -' -\   l9(1   34
,   sx           ,,  \;  1jIs \)                 X 0    9kj,j/- -I-!
pintglu county   $        1         &JXJ0                               !        '     )     
I 1 16   8 1 8                    (_I#        \        9 + J  . - _  jl   J8)        /                 eijl'      
5260  81 a3                  '* ')                       '                                                                i    ,?
\~~~~~~~~~N) __¢ >l                        f_>X;    eFltr|                                 _        _
1588 1     1       \2      ,\       /                                     ;aIOIIYI}A  H111*14 1111J6|..IA
P6glu county                              ii   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cOIU  I  t  
555  X   A 1E I         136)3  | 3413          116()~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ | 83     (II))IgI;  -y,0  2/)v
21.92  0.11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II A-F-N /                                 ~        A
52.60  0.3.                                                  . _~ . . r  /  u~U~          O
i1*~~~~~~~5ti                         N la c  licoill
34.A0   N 8 ~      ' 
113?fl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    /                                                   ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.a I~fj
3  132  1  26 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,3     2I            15)t4(S   y4ISSL2



Sketch Map of Host Site for Phase I Resettlement from the XLD Constructi on A rea
noi~~~~~~~~~~~ 
38 861
Tonishun           l\383
252,121                                                                                                  I 
-(,    \T<r | LIe*Jnd,                                                               I ansferplJatfolu l nt
e)                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~355                 1
L lau                 Shuan tang
H._
j.                                                                       WiA                        T'I~~~~~~~~~  N  1  W
Shi men ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~eetlmn
3041495 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Oulto
S10   yu 



g  tfl (180m mA ) f   c R
Sketch Map of Host Sites for Phase II Resettlement (EL 180 m)
iN                                                               Resttemei
(yl  D.ihe  .o                                      -                     _ 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JA _                     _ 
Loiwq~~~~~~)w n
I. // SC_)  X}
X~~~~~~~~~X'9~~~~~~~~~~~                                           I[V" W  .w






REPORT ON THE REVISED RESETTLEMENT
PLAN AND IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS
1.   Introduction
1.1   The purposes of Xiaolangdi multipurpose dam project, a key state project, is for flood
control. ice control, sediment control as well as irrigation. In accordance with the evaluation
opinions of the world bank, the project costs include loans from the world bank, 1.166 billion
U.S dollars. Phase I loan proceeds of 460 million$, approved with Loan Agreement 3727-OCHA
signed, has been put into the main civil works, the tenure is from 1994 to June 30, 1996. In
order that Phase II loan agreement can be signed as soon as possible and the loan (about 430
million$) can be used timely in 1997 to ensure the construction progress of the main works, this
report has been prepared by YRWHDC and RPDI pursuant to the world bank's requirement that
a report on physical resettlement implementation as well as a overall plan report must be
submitted for evaluation of the world bank.
1.2   Based on the appraisal report on resettlement of Xiaolangdi project, this report, composed
of 12 sections, emphasizes the changes and optimization during resettlement implementation and
has been prepared and organized according to the requirements and comments in the
memorandum of international development association mission for Xiaolangdi resettlement on
November 26, 1996, including introduction, review of project impacts, resettlement organization
and management, criteria of resettlement and resettlement plan, construction area resettlement,
revised resettlement implementation plan, progress of resettlement implementation, resettlement
cost estimate and approval, evaluation of household income, social adjustment, process for
complaints, appeals of resettlement, training, etc.
2.    Review of Project Inpacts
2.1   Damsite Construction Area
Construction area refers to the locations of the main works, earth and rock material area, dredge
area, living area of the contractors, roads, water and power supply system at the site, accesses
on northern and southern banks and Liuzhuang railway station, involving 40 administrative
villages in 10 townships in Mengjin city and Jiyuan county rural area of and Jili district of
Luoyang city with the land requisition area of about 23.6 km2 (35503 mu), of which cultivated
land is 21300 mu(accounting for 60%). The affected population were 10574 persons,
representing for 1. I% of total populations of the city/county. Total area of houses and kilns
affected is 302100 km2.
2.2   Reservoir inundation Impact
2.2.1 Resurvey of Physical Indices of Reservoir Inundation
since the preliminary design of Xiaolangdi project, people's living standard has been improved
Page 1



greatly with the development of the economy of China. Required by Henan and Shanxi
provincial government as well as the local govermnents, MWR arranged RPDI to conduct review
of physical indices of reservoir inundation to reflect authentic data, which began in March 1994
and ended in December 1994. The results passed the preliminary review of MWR in December
1995 and the review of SPC subsequent to the selective examination, review of YRWHDC RO
and consultation of the experts. Database of physical indices as well as physical item registration
cards have been established in household.
2.2.2 Results of the Resurvey
Overview: 29 Townships in 8 counties in Henan and Shanxi province are affected, including 12
locations of township governments 174 administrative villages, 787 industries and mines, 13
small-scaled hydraulic power stations, 587 pump stations for irrigation, 1657 Km long canals,
1022 km long roads, 917 km long electric lines and 778 km long communication lines. See table
2.1.
Population impacts by phase: totally 177591 persons are affected by inundation, representing for
5.79% of the total population in 8 counties in the reservoir area. 18%, 15.4%, and 6% of the
total population in Yuanqu, Xin'an and Jiyuan are affected respectively, and less in Mianchi
and Mengjin county, least in Pinglu, Xiaxian and Shanxian (only less than 1 % of the total
population). The standard for the reservoir area resettlement is at El.276 m (the normal storage
level is 275m plus Im of superelevation by stormy waves), below which the people must move.
By the moving year, there will be 188138 persons in the reservoir area. Based on the
characteristics of the reservoir operation, Phase I reservoir area resettlement involving 46133
resetters (below 180 m and the other affected population) will finish before June 1997; Phase
II resettlement revolving 118985 resettlers at El 180-265m will move from 1997 to 2000 and the
last resettlement affecting 23637 persons was planned to begin in 2010-2011, but now based on
the direction of SPC, it must be implemented together with that at El. 180-265m and finish in
2003. See table A.1
Population Impacts by category: in the plan base year, total population affected by inundation
is 188138 persons, of which 89504 are labours. The impacts are divided into two categories:
general impact(impact on production) and impact on livelihood. The first impact involved a)
agricultural population of 169640 persons, of which were 784 labours who lost production
material, and loss of land resulted in impacts on both production and livelihood, thus plans must
be made for the labours for production rehabilitation and for housing of the resettlers in
residential sites as well. b) non-agricultural population of 18498 persons, of which were 11104
labours who were engaged in industries, mines, agencies in township and schools and need to
be resettled with their units. There are 1798 teachers and retired workers in the rural area whose
houses should be taken into account in the residential area. 118498 non-agricultural persons who
have salaries revolved in the second category are comparatively in better condition; 29868
persons(17.6%) of the agricultural population used to take part time jobs in county and township
run enterprises or have temporary non-agricultural incomes may not feel very difficult with
compensations for the enterprises and change of production, livelihood for the remaining 82.4%
Page 2



of the agricultural population will be rehabilitated and developed through implementation of
resettlement plan. Table 2.2 indicates population impacts by categories.
Land to be inundated by types: water surface area at the normal reservoir storage level is 272
Km2 and the total land area affected by inundation is 278 kun(inundation+landslide, bank
collapse+stormy waves). Appendix A.2 shows the details about the land inundation in the
reservoir area. The cultivated land represents for 48% of the total land area, of which irrigated
land accounts for 45% and dry land 44% , vegetable field and flood land accounts for 11 %.
Forests account for 8% of the total inundation area, of which timber forest for 75%, fuel forest
for 12%, bare hills, slopes and grazing area account for 17% and others account for 16%.
Housing impacts: there are two kinds of housing in the reservoir area: houses and kilns. The
total inundation area is 7.43 million m2, of which 92.5% is in the rural area (6,87 million m2)
and 6.7% in townships, 0.8% for enterprises and institutions not under the control of the
township. In the rural area, dwelling caves cover 45% of the total area, brick and stone kiln
cover 23.9%,earth kiln 31.1%. Housing area per capita is 37.6%. See table A.3
Impacts on Industries, mines and workers: 787 enterprises, mines are to be affected by
inundation, of which 69% are mines, 31 % are industries , with 54499 staff and workers. Except
4938 non-agricultural persons (official workers and staff), the rest are all workers from rural
area on basis of contract and temporary workers engaged in township run enterprises whose
incomes are main sources of their family incomes. The survey and statistics show that 30% of
the workers(14865 persons) live outside the reservoir area(above the water level 275m),
resettlement of the enterprises will affect their livelihood temporarily, but compensation
measures for them have been taken into account in the plan, such as compensations for idling
period of the enterprises and changes of production line.
Impacts on culture, education and health facilities: table A.6 gives the descriptions of the
inundation of the facilities relating to culture, education and health, including 186 schools, 1
agriculture training center, 199 hospitals and clinics, 15 epidemic prevention stations, 177
facilities for education and culture(cinemas,libraries and cultural stations. With the development
of Chinese economy, the compensation cost for the education and culture facilities in the
inundation area can not meet the needs. MWR has agreed that each one in the culture and health
agencies can have additional subsidy of 100 yuan.
Impact on infrastructure: infrastructure in the reservoir area include highways, power supply,
communication, broadcast, etc, as indicated in A.5. Rehabilitation of infrastructure in the host
area doesn't mean compensations for physical item affected by inundation, it has been planned
and designed on basis of physical needs of resettlement and the cost has been incorporated into
total resettlement budget.
2.2.3 Comparison of Changes to Physical Indices: Resurvey of physical indices in 1994
demonstrates the changes in the economic development in the reservoir area, see table
2.3.Compared with 1991, total population has increased 16.93% in the reservoir area, rural
Page 3



population has increased 16.38%, cultivated land changed 8.9%, houses and kilns increased
62.07% and industries, mines have increased 212.3%, number of staff and workers increased
91.54%. Such rapid speed of increment of industries and mines has caused great attentions of
MWR and SPC, a working group consisting of 10 persons has been organized to perform further
survey in the reservoir area, the survey is supposed to finish in April
Summery of Xiaolangdi Reservoir Inundation Impacts
Table 2.1
Order                    Descnption                                          unit                      amnount
A.                       Reservoir uRmdation impact                        |
I                        Total atea of dhe reservoir                         km!                       272
2                        Length of the reservoir                             km                        130
3                        Area of Inundated bnd                               mu                        416823
4                        lnurnated cultivated land                           mu                        200745
5                        Cultivated land per capita                          mu                        1.27
6                        Affected population-. 1994)                         Nos                       175591
7                        AffecXd population(n dhe  moving year)              Nos                       18138
8                        Proportion b de popublon of dhe county              %                         5.97
9                        Area of itudated houses and kilns                   Br                        7431700
10                       Affecting township                                  Nos                       29
11                       Affecting administrtive villages                    Nos                       174
B.                       Impact on the constuction area
1.                       Lad requiitidon(aout 23.6 km')                      mu                        35503
2.                       Culivated bnd requisition(60%)                      mu                        21300
3                        Cultivaed had per capita                            na                        2.1
4.                       Affected population by Land Usein the moving        Nos                       10574
____ ___ ____ ___ _ _ year)
5.                       Pfoponion ot dte population of the county           %                         1.1
6.                       Aa of houses atd kihts to be mecostucmed            Mr 30206K
7.                       Townships affected                                  Nos                       10
Adminisutive villages                              Nos                       40
Page 4



Population Impacts by Categories
Table 2.2
Order                      Descnpuons                                    In plan base year
Population            Labour
A                          General Impacts
I______________________    Agricultural population
Population who loss houses and land           164334
Population who loss land
Population who loss houses
Population who loss roads to the villages     5306
Sub-total                                     169640                78400
2                          Non-agricultural population
Inhabitants in the township (loss houses)     9598                  4702
Popuation of industries and mines and the third  4948               4948
industries
Rural teachers and retired staff and workers(lost  179              361
houses)
Population in institutes not mnaged by townships   436              421
-|___________________ tPopulation in institutes managed by the province   1717                   672
]  Sub-total                                    18408                  11104
Total population                              188138                 89504
Page 5



Table 2-2 (continued)                                 Population Impacts by Category
Order                 Descnpwon                                                 In plan base year
Population         Labour
B.                    Livelihood inmact
1.                    Agruculural populaion
Be engged in planting (sideline activities)               134466             46079
County mna enmerprses(workers on basis of contact         3412               3412
Township nmenterpnses                                     2418               2418
Agriculural population with temporary non agricultural    24033              24038
incomes
Sub-total                                                 164334             75948
(Population who only  st roads                            5306               2452
Sub-total                                                 169640             78400
Non-agricultutal population
Rural eachers                                             361                361
Retired slaff and workters                                1437
Staff ad workers enpged in township goverment             10035             5123
Towsip en_rprises(dstries, mtes and comnerce)             3119               3119
____________ jCouty-un sae owned eterprisesindustres and mines                   1829               1829
Instituons at the provincial kvel                         1717               672
Sub-mtal                                             _ 1498                  11104
Totia                                                     188138             39504
Page 6



3.    Resettlement Organizations and Management
3.1   System of Organizations and Management for Resettlement Implementation
The management system adopted for resettlement of Xiaolangdi project is as follows: MWR
(acting as leader) employer(for management)---the revolving two provinces(take each one's own
responsibilities)---county(as base).MWR RO, acting as leader, is responsible for coordination
and micro-control over RS of Xiaolangdi project; YRWHDC RO (the employer) is responsible
for resettlement management. The inundated area and host areas cover Henan and Shanxi
province, where resettlement agencies at provincial level, city and county level have been
established to perform resettlement management under the leadership of the government at
various levels. Table 3-1 shows the organizations.
3.2   Terms of Reference of Resettlement Agencies at Each Levels
3.2.1 Leading Groups: Leading groups (LG) have been established at central government level
and at Henan and Shanxi provincial levels to develop strategies and provide general oversight
of the planned resettlement. The LG at central government level consists of a Deputy Chairman
of SPC, Vice Minister of MWR and Vice Governors of Henan and Shanxi. The main function
of the LG is to coordinate the project at the central government level and to resolve any policy,
legal, funding, land use, agricultural and nonagricultural registration matters. The Provincial
LGs include about 25 people, headed by Vice Governor of the Provinces. The leading groups
liaise with YRWHDC and YRCC RO. These groups have been instrumental in reaching
agreements on key components of the resettlement plan, such as the approval for sending
relocatees to the three downstream host counties. The LGs are responsible for direction Henan
and Shanxi Resettlement Offices. Leading groups have also been set up at the municipal level
and have been established in each affected county to facilitate coordination between departments
and to accelerate approval of interdepartmental issues
3.2.2 Resettlement office of MWR (MWR RO): MWR RO will oversee the overall
implementation, such as making survey and research, drawing up policies, summarizing
experience, coordinating the resenlement implementation, controlling the resettlement of the
construction projects managed directly by the central government, organizing training (by
entrusting YRWHDC RO) of persons responsible for provincial, city and county resettlement
as well as supporting work in the subsequent 5- 10 years after completion of the resettlement
of the project.
3.2.3 YRWHDC RO: it is responsible for management and supervision of the resettlement
implementation, including planning and financial management, information interchange, as well
as review of proposals of any resettlement component put forward by the local government,
coordinating and checking, and monitoring work performed by the local governments and the
design unit, checking and accept a project after completion.
3.2.4 Provincial, Prefecture (municipal) and Resettlement Office
Page 7



It is responsible for coordinating resettlement in the area, especially for drawing up plans and
appraising the overall resettlement plan, controlling resettlement progress, finance and material
supply plan, organizing and coordinating the implerhentation of special project that county can
not manage and of a project developed independently, giving directions to the resettlement at
lower level, inspecting and supervising their work, conducting socio-economic evaluation after
resettlement of the relocatees, monitoring and appraising implementation of resenlement and
relating policies.
3.2.5 County Resettlement Bureau (Office): county resettlement bureau (office) is responsible
for assisting the county government in organizing the resettlement implementation, drawing up
the overall resettlement implementation plan of the county, carrying out agricultural and non-
agricultuial measures, verifying and recording physical inundation items of resettlers, handling
land requisition and cashing compensations, publicizing the relocatees, organizing the resettlers
to build new sites, to move and resettle, organizing the rehabilitation of infrastructures. It is also
responsible for management of funds, materials and the solution of the remaining problems as
well as coordination and handling of various problems during the resettlement implementation
of the county, reporting resettlement progress and assisting to supervise and monitor the
resettlement.
3.2.6 Township Government: with coordination of village leaders, it is responsible for land
allocation and readjustment, livelihood rehabilitation, village reconstruction, small-sized
hydraulic project, land preparation and move of resettlers, etc. In order to facilitate monitoring
and supervision of resettlement implementation and solve daily problems, persons from county
resettlement office have been sent to the resettlement stations in each township in the affected
area.
3.2.7 Under the leadership of village and group leaders, all the households are responsible for
house construction, move arrangement and land preparation.
3.2.8 RPDI: as designer of the project, it is responsible for design of the implementation,
preparing cost estimate, putting forward alternative designs to he design variations, participating
in check and acceptance of the project.
3.2.9 YRCC RO: entrusted by YRWHDC RO, it acts as supervision engineer and is
responsible for monitoring on progress, quality and funds of the resettlemnent implementation.
3.3 Relation between Resettlenent Agencies and Other Departments
Resettlement office(bureau) is functional agency of local government, other department at the
same level as planning, finance, water conservancy, power, agriculture, , industry,
communication, education and health, city (county) construction, transportation and grain,
entrusted by resettlement offices and Bureaus or under the guidance of local government, may
undertake the design and construction of corresponding infrastructure (such as new township and
village construction, water and power supply, road constuction, school construction,
Page 8



communication, agricultural and industrial development).
3.4   Institutional Capacity of Resettlement Implementation Agencies
3.4.1 There are 430 persons engaged in the resettlement agencies, of which 316 persons
graduated from college and special schools, 114 persons are with or below middle school
education. See the attached table 3-1 for details. Directors in the resettlement agencies are
mostly transferred from other units who have rich management experience and they are qualified
for the resettlement management and will work more efficiently through training as well as
culmulation of practice.
3.4.2 In recent several years, with the resettlement progress, the office buildings of the
resettlement agencies at different levels are built with 15m2 per capita and are equipped with
computers, duplicators, telephones and vehicles to create the better working environment and
to basically meet the resettlement requirements.
3.5   Management and Supervision Status of the Resettlement Project
3.5. 1 Management
3.5.1.1     Central Leading Group:  In February, 1994, a the first joint meeting for
Xiaolangdi project was held in Beijing with the participants of SPC, MOF, state land
administration bureau, MWR, Henan and Shanxi provincial governments, YRWHDCRO and
YRCC , at which report on the project construction including the resettlement implementation
was given, the problems such as funds, resettlement and management were discussed. Mr. Niu
Maosheng, minister of MWR emphasized that in view of general layout the project, integrate
considerations should be given to the relationship between the project construction and
resettlement implementation, special attentions must be paid to the resettlement. As far as
payment was concerned, he said, the payments newly occurred mustn't be postponed and the
former ones be paid off step by step. At the meeting decision was made that Xiaolangdi
resettlement should be under the leadership of YRWHDC instead of YRCC, so the relevant
relations, responsibilities became clearer and the leadership can be strengthened. The participants
of meeting were from SPC, MWR, Henan and Shanxi provincial government, YRWHDC and
YRCC. On several occasions Deputy minister of MWR in charge of resettlement exchanged
opinions with the vice directors of the two provinces on funds, compensation, land use taxes and
so on. In order to guarantee the river closure, Mr. Zhang Jiyao, the Vice Minister of MWR and
General Manager of YRWHDCRO, pays high attention to the resettlement and plans to hold the
second joint meeting in February 1997 to summarize and plan the resettlement, study and
research the potential problems during construction.
3.5.1.2     MWR RO:    Since the beginning of the implementation of the project
construction, the officials of MAR RO often go to the construction sites and resettlement
agencies at different levels for inspection, giving directions and solving problems, they also
participated in the preparation of Management Method for Resettlement Implementation of
Page 9



Xiaolangdi Project and Outlines of the Design for the Resettlement Implementation Plan of
Xiaolangdi Project, they have played a very important role to promote the successful
resettlement implementation.
3.5.1.3     YRWHDCRO: It has 4 departments: planning and resettlement, resources and
environment, plan and finance and comprehensive departments with total staff of 30 people.
In these years, YRWHCDRO has organized and coordinated and carried out resettlement
planning and design, prepared and issued the annual tasks and cost plan; checked, supervised
and resolved the problems found in a coordinative way in the course of the implementation such
as design changes and social adjustment; organized to develop the enviromnental protection and
resettlement supervision and monitoring, etc.; worked out "Methods on Plan Management for
the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project","Method on Industries and Mines Management", "Method
on Completion Acceptance for the Resettlement Project", "Financial Disbursement System",
"Credit Disbursement and Withdrawal Method", "Accounting Method", etc. and preliminarily
established the infonnation management system to gradually introduce the resettlement into the
scientific, specific and systematic way.
3.5.1.4     Provincial RO: The Henan and Shanxi provincial offices have developed orderly
and effectively the work according to their responsibilities to make the resettlement conducted
smoothly. Especially, Henan provincial resettlement office holds the provincial resettlement
mneeting at the beginning of every year to conclude and arrange the resettlement and sign the
annual target assigmnents with the municipal government to make the resettlement agencies at
various levels take the responsibilities respectively.
3.5.1.5     The World Bank: The WB not only provides the loan which relieves the pressure
of the local construction fund, but also inspects the Project twice every year and provide good
suggestions to improve the resettlement management level.
3.5.1.6     International Environmental and Resettlement POE
According to the World Bank requirements and after approval of Ministry of Water Resources
(MWR), YRWHDCRO engages international environment and resettlements POE for Xiaolangdi
Multipurpose Project which is made of 3 environmental experts (I foreigner) and 6 resettlement
experts (1 foreigner), 9 in total. The POE holds meeting once every six months since the first
meeting in June, 1994 and has held 5 meetings in total up to now with focus on reviewing the
environment and resettlement related works' constuction progress, evaluating the problems
raised during the construction, making recommendations for RO in improving work and usually
spends 10-15 days for every meeting, provides consulting report to YRWHDCRO who submits
it to the World-Bank and issues it to resettlement agencies at different levels.
3.5.2 Supervision and Monitoring in the Reservoir Area
3.5.2.1     Resettlement Implementation Supervision in the Reservoir Area
Page 1 0



To supervision resettlement is the need to keep the project construction identical with
international standards and is also great tendency of resettlement implementation in China. In
accordance with the Document No.[19941468 issued by the Resettlement Office of MWR and
instructions of MWR's leaders as well as requirements of the World Bank, the construction
supervision system is used in the XLD reservoir area resettlement. According to the first joint
meeting held at the end of February, 1994, the resettlement office of YRCC was entrusted to
monitor the construction of the XLD reservoir area resettlement and started the work in
September, 1996 with more than 20 people involved. The supervision is placed the basis on the
resettlement planning and design approved by the State, annual plan and signed relevant
agreements and takes resettlement natures into consideration and is performed in an inspection
tour way monthly with focus on inspecting and pressing the work progress, examining and
supervising quality to know the resettlement cost allocation and utilization and will be further
improved in the future with the progress of the work.
3.5.2.2     Social and Economic Monitoring and Evaluation
It is entrusted by YRWHDCRO to the resettlement monitoring department of North China
Hydropower Institute which submits a report every six months since the start in 1993 and has
submitted 6 monitoring and evaluation reports (Nos. 1 --- 6) which are respectively distributed
to IDA, project implementation units (provincial, city and county resettlement offices),
competent agencies of MWR (resettlement office of MWR, General Institute and International
Cooperation Department, etc.) and POE members. These reports are to provide information and
suggestions to above mentioned departments so that these departments know resettlement
progress, understand relocatees' social and economic development status, carry out resettlement
plan and perfect resettlement work.
The monitoring and evaluation work contents relocatees' livelihood settlement (including
relocation progress, facilities construction such as houses, water supply, power supply, road and
school, compensation fulfillment), social adjustment (including relocatees training, public
involvement, complaints, income assessment, preferential policies, special masses,
nongovernment organization activities), production development ( including land adjustment and
development, village-run enterprises, non-agricultural resettlement).
The monitoring and evaluation work has 6 methods: (a) sampling new villages at Phase I and
generally surveying new villages at Phase II; (b) having an informal discussion with resettlement
staff; (c) investigating the status of houses, farmland, public facilities and infrastructures in
relocated villages; (d) selecting typical households in relocated villages to know family income,
living conditions, neighborhood relationship, opinions and requirements on resettlement; (e)
having an informal meeting and discussion with nongovernment organizations to understand their
attitudes to and requirements on the resettlement; (f) having informal discussion with city and
county resettlement officials.
3.5.2.3      Follow-up Investigation of Relocatees' Family Incomes
Page 11



In order to evaluate relocatees' income before and after relocation in a tracing way, since
December, 1995, YRWHDCRO has entnusted the Jiyuan, Mengjin and Xin'an where the Phase
I and Phase II relocatees have resettled to investigate relocatees' income of the all villages in a
tracing way. The sampling method is used in investigation, i.e. 10 households are selected every
village, of which 3 high-level income households, 4 middle-level income households and 3 low-
level income households. There are 37 villages (460 households, 2149 people) involved in total.
The family standing account is set up to count every household's input and output of the
domestic planting and incomes from nonagricultural jobs, domestic sidelines and other sources.
Such investigation is summarized and reported quarterly to YRWHDRO who summarizes and
analyzes it and prepares another report hereon and submits the final report to international POE
members and related agencies.
3.5.3 Monitoring on the Complementary Projects of the Resettlement
3.5.3.1     Supervision on Wenmengtan River Channel Training and Warping for Soil
Improvement
YRWHDCRO entrusts this work to the Wenmengtan monitoring sector of monitoring division
under Water Conservancy Science Research Institute. This sector has 10 staff who are usually
on the site since monitoring work started in June, 1995 and effectively control the Wenmengtan
project's quality, progress and cost and submit monthly supervision report.
3.5.3.2     Supervision on Houhe Dam
The tendering work of Houhe dam was over in September, 1996 and the awarded contract was
signed in the middle of October and the contractor mobilized into the site in December. Shanxi
Provincial hydropower Construction Monitoring Company takes the responsibility of the
monitoring the construction of this dam and has caried it out.
3.6  Information Managmt System
3.6.1 RWHDCRO started to develop the management information system for Xiaolangdi
resettlement project in 1994 and prepared Information Report Systemfor Xiaolangdi Resettlement
Project in August, 1994 and finished Information System Development and implementation
System for the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project in October which was reviewed by the Second
POE meeting after revision in March, 1995. Meanwhile, 13 computers and their outside
auxiliary facilities and system development support software have been procured (see Annex
equipment list) and the 5 proposed subsystem have been put into operation, i.e.
---   base information and geological information system (GIS) development, including
establishment of inundation affected physical indices database and GIS in the reservoir
area;
----  resettlement planning subsystem development, including resettlement project planning and
compensation. resettlement planning GIS diagrams;
resettlement project management subsystem development, including project cost estimates
Page 12



management and project progress, etc;
----  resettlement project social and economic monitoring subsystem development, establishing
preliminarily trace monitoring system for relocatees' income;
----   YRWHDCRO public affairs management system development, including labor wages,
documents and files management, etc.
See Annex information development guarantee and organization structure
Up to now, over 150 databases have been established including physical indices, project
management, supervision and monitoring with IOMB information, over 250 GIS graphic
databases also established with 100MB information, over 40 functional modes also developed
with the specific contents of database operation and 40000 program code commands prepared
to ensure the system to service with the resettlement implementation.
3.6.2 The management information system has been developed for 2 years and can not be
timely confirmed by the higher agency and not operate normally due to the changes of physical
indices and cost estimates of the Project. In 1995, the information reporting system was formed,
and the contents, format and arrangement of the report were also specified (see Annex), but the
system does not still operate.
3.6.3 The State Planning Commission reviewed the compensated items and cost estimates for
the Xiaolangdi resettlement project submitted by the MWR in November 12 - 22. 1996 and has
the clear opinions hereon. The system will be netted and applied immediately after the
confirmation letter is issued by the State Planning Commission.
At present, the training on the information managers in the provincial, municipal and county
resettlement offices is beginning to carry out and the information staff in Henan and Shanxi
provincial resettlement offices are to be trained overseas (in America) to encourage the system
application. According to the memo's requirements, the MIS operation manual will be finished
in the first half of 1997.
3.7   Financial Audit
3.7.1 In line with the WB requirements, the borrower should submit the annual financial
statement attached with the independent auditor's report hereon to the World Bank during the
whole project implementation. Therefore, the Zhengzhou special office of China National Audit
Office (CNAO) carries out the audit on the resettlement project after annual financial settlement
every year is over. Up to now, the auditor's reports in 1994 and 1995 have submitted to the
World Bank and the report in 1996 will be finished in the first half of 1997. The CNAO was
satisfied with the cost use of the Project.
3.7.2 The audit by CNAO includes the whole items of the Project and performance, plays and
important role in ensuring the resettlement cost to be properly used so as to ensure the
resettlement to be carried out as scheduled.
Page 13



3.7.3 In order to facilitate the financial audit, YRWHDCRO worked out the internal control
system such as 'Financial Management Method for the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project, Credit
Disbursement and Withdrawal Method, Monthly Statement of Cost Allocation and Utilization
to lead the financial management to the systematic, specific way and to speed up the availability
and utilization of the resettlement fund.
3.7.4 Henna provincial resettlement office formns the financial auditing department with special
financial staff who are responsible for auditing the cost utilization of the municipal and county
resettlement agencies so as to guarantee the audit quality.
Page 14



Chart 3-1         XLD Resettlement Project Management Organization
Central Leading Group
l       l     |      ~~RO, MWR: ::
YRHD    |Henna Leading| 1YRWHDCRO                              LGax
RO         Group for  L
Henna Gov                                      rShanxi
Henna      Henna PRO          ----------------Shanxi PRO              Shanxi
RTB      Il                 l                    l        I       l  WCB
1   5 Cities LG    --------------- Yucheng LG
WMTPO  Municipal R0 -Yuchang RO    IDH of
I                        T    -       ~~~~~~~~Houhe
Couny LG     ---------------|County LG 
|County RO        ---------------|County RO
Township Gov    --------------- Township Gov.
Township RC    --------------- Township RC
|Village                               V |ilage
Committee         ----------------Committee
Notes: _           administrative relationship
---         coordination relationship
LD:         leading group
RO:         resettlement office
Gov.         government
RTB:        river training bureau
WMTPO:       Wenmengtan project office
RC:          resettlement center
IDH:        irrigation district headerquaners
EMO:        environmental management office
WCB:         water conservancy bureau
Page 15



Director of YRWHDC RO
MIS Developme roup
I Departments of YRWHDC RO I                       Other Resettlement Constitutes
Fig. 3-2    XLD Resettlement MIS Development Guarantee System
Page 16



|XLD) Resettlement MIS|
Base           Resettlement    Resettlement Project    Social-economic &     Office
Information &        Planning         Management           Environmental       Subsystem
GIS Subsystem       Subsystem          Subsystem             Subsystem
Information                                  nm                   Io t                     In_rmaio
Source and / _/\\
Its using                                                                                         \
LDepartment|                                                 X      _         
Pag  17           '
Information \/\/1//
Contents /\t  
Office      Resettlement      Schedule and       Environmental and       Project Implementation
Informatio       Planning          Progress         Social-economic           and Supervision
Information       Information          Information              Information
Fig. 3-2 -2 Organizational Structure of the MIS
Page 1 7



Table3-1 Equipment Provision for XLD Resettlement MIS
NO.           Equipment                Model            Manufacturer      Amount(set)
1 IBM Computer               DX4/33            IBM Corporation
2 AST Computer               SX4/25             AST Corporation
3 Compaq Computer            DX2/66             Compaq Corporation               4
4 Compaq Computer            XL5/60             Compaq Corporation               2
5 Compaq Portable Computer   DX2/40             Compaq Corporation               4
6 Compaq Portable Computer   DX2/25             Compaq Corporation               2
7 Compaq Sever               PROLIANTIOOO    Compaq Corporation                  I
8 HP LaserJet Printer        HP4V               HP Corporation                   2
9 HP LaserJet Printer        HP4PLUS            HP Corporation                   2
10 HP Color Ink Printer       HP1200C           HP Corporation
11 SHARP Projector            SHARP2480         SHARP Corporation
12 CALCOM Digitaler           CAL34480          CALCOM Corporation
13 HP Scanner                 ScanJet IIcx      HP Corporation                    I
14 UPS Power                  SantaklOOOKVA    SANTAK Corporation                 3
Page 18



4.    Resettlement criteria and Planning Principles
4.1   Overview
Resettlement criteria and planning principles are guidelines for resettlement plan and design of
all the concerning counties. Through summery of the experience from resettlement of other
Chinese hydraulic projects and Xiaolangdi construction area, the resettlement criteria and
planning principles for the resettlement of Xiaolangdi reservoir area are being perfected. Design
for resettlement implementation since 1994 has been performed on basis of the resettlement
criteria and planning principles formulated during the assessment of 1994, but followed by
further research, great changes have taken place in the compensation criteria with changes of
policies and deepgoing of the design, which has now become more practical and in conformity
with the resettlers' wishes.
4.2.         Resettlement Criteria and Compensation Measures
4.2.1 Resettlement criteria: 17 resettlement criteria have been formulated by RPDI in
accordance with relevant Chinese laws, regulations and rules, policies regarding resettlement and
on basis of summery of lessons and experience from resettlement of other domestic reservoirs,
as indicated in table 4.1.
4.2.2 Compensation Measures
Inundation of large and medium-sized hydroelectric project often results in impacts on all kinds
of population. Table 4.2 list the compensation measures to all sorts of population when by RPDI
when they budgeting for the resettlement cost. In order to guarantee each household to obtain
reasonable compensation, during the physical indices survey, the survey included property
registration card for each household signed and sealed by the head of each household,
resettlement chief, responsible person from the local government and village leader as well as
persons in the design unit, and database for each household was established. Database of
resettlement compensation has been developed by RPDI and property compensation card for each
household can be printed. Considering that most resettlement is implemented in administrative
village, the compensation funds for each household should be transferred to:
a:    host area. (for land acquisition);
b:    the household directly for house construction, move and compensation for property loss
(with cash);
C:    local responsible agencies who on behalf of the relocatees assign some resettlement works
to others on basis of contracts.(house construction, for rehabilitation of pubic facilities
as transport, medical care, culture and education, special facilities as highway, power.
broadcast and communication);
Page 19



d:    resettlement villages ( for production development);
e:   industries and mines (for move and change of production lines.
4.3   Resettlement Guiding Ideology and Planning Principles
4.3.1  Resettlement Guiding Ideology
In accordance with the Regulations on Compensation for Land Requisition and Resettlement of
the Large and Medium-sized Hydropower Projects issued by the State, the actual conditions of
counties and medium and long term development planning, the resettlement guideline is defined
as taking the interests of the state, the collective and the individual into account, following the
principle of the development resettlement. By means of carrying out the policy of compensation
in the early stage, and support in the later stage, the rural resettlement is based on the land-based
agriculture, follows the multiple aspects development in agriculture, forestry and husbandry on
the basis of the land so as to gradually form the multivariant production structure and the
complex resettlement in multiple channels and also to make the relocatees go in for farming and
the labors play their roles and to improve relocatees' income.
4.3.2 Principles for Resettlement Planning
(a)   The main principle of XID resettement is to carry out agricultural resettlement for most
of the inundation-affected population as many as possible. The host area whose residents are
willing to share the land with the relocatees will be selected on the premise of that relocatees'
and host residents' incomes will not be affected. Meanwhile, in order to minirnize the impact
on the relocatee's living practice, the new residential sites should be firstly selected within the
village/town, secondly within the county and then outside counties.
(b)   To strictly follow the policies and principles, specifications and stipulations issued by the
State on reservoir inundation treatment and resettlement to prepare the resettlement planning in
line with the Outline of the Reservoir Inundation Treatment and Resettlement Implementation
Design for the XLD Multipurpose Dam Project on the Yellow River;
(c)   To analyze and verify the resettlement programs proposed by the counties and optimize
and decide the rural resettlement programs for villages submitted by the counties to work out
detailed planning and design on the basis of the approved inundation-affected physical indices
recheck results in the reservoir area in 1994 and the state-approved overall resettlement program
in the preliminary design;
(d)   To insist on the principles of being responsible for the country, resettlement, seeking
the truth from facts and keeping conformity with the related policies, to combine the resettlement
closely with resources development, environmental protection. social and economic development
planning with putting the resettlement into the local economy development planning so as to
accelerate the local economy development. to correctly handle the relationship between the
Page 20



individual, collective, local authority and the state;
(e)    For the rural resettlement, to focus on the land-based agriculture with the basis of the'
land, on the basis of optimizing the planting planning, to fully play the advantages of the local
resources to develop the forestry and fruits, aquaculture, town and village run enterprises and
conduct resettlement in various channels, industries and models, to economically analyze and
verify the program of the relocatees' production measures so as to restore and surpass their
previous living level after resettlement.
(f)    According to the national policies, to transfer the official staff's dependents who are
contractual and temporary workers into nonagricultural ones if they agree and the units are
willing to receive them so as to reduce the agricultural resettlement pressure, but the related
agreements must be signed.
(g)   To minimize the impact on the host residents and to make up their losses caused by the
land allocation by way of proper economic compensation and making the production
development measures.
(h)   To conduct necessary economic analysis and verification on the industrial and mineral
enterprises which actively ask for accepting the relocatees to select the better ones to resettle the
relocatees, which should have reliable fund sources, labor concentration and good benefits, the
ones which are enlarged or newly built should have the written informnation above the level of
feasible reports or the reviewed and approved documents by the competent authorities.
(i)    For all planned items related to resettlement, to take the environmental impact into
consideration and pay attention to the environmental construction of the host area, work out the
clearing methods and implementation plan for the pollution sources in the inundated area in the
light of the requirements of reservoir clearance and diseases control and combine the
development with training closely in making the relocation and production measures planning
for towns, residential sites and industrial and mineral enterprises in conformity with the laws and
regulations on forestry, water and soil conservation, river channel management so as to cause
the ecology and environment in the host area to develop in virtuous circle.
4.3.3 The details of resettlement planning guideline are included as follows:
(a)   to resettle in similar living style
(i)    100% nonagricultural population remain unchanged
(ii)   If possible, the agricultural population remain changed, otherwise, less than 20% of the
agricultural population can be transferred into nonagricultural ones (within the counties).
(b)   to improve the affected population's and host residents' living levels to a certain extent
(10%)
(i)    The income difference between the residents in various villages and in the host area is
not more than 25 % (according to the planning). otherwise the income of the low-income
Page 21



people should be improved accordingly.
(ii)   The population who share land with the relocatees can make up the income losses by way
of intensive farming. The specific methods are as follows:
to develop irrigation
to plant crops with high economic value
to improve soil quality
to develop orchards and a diversified economy.
(iii)  The land per capita of agricultural resettlement:
--    is more than 1.7 mu if all the land is rainfed
is computed according to the proportion of 1:2 when some is irrigated land and
some is rainfed land
---   is more than 0.8mu if all of the land is irrigated
(iv)   The host villages should provide 5-15% of their land to the relocatees and obtain the
compensation money (investment) to make up their income losses for the purpose of
improving income levels.
(c)   the long term economic activities not to be impacted by the environmental capacity in the
host area
(i)    Generally speaking, the land per capita of every village should not be less than 0.8mu
(irrigated land), otherwise the nonagricultural resettlement can be conducted to settle this
condition.
(ii)    There are three methods to meet this standard:
--   to change much waste land into farmland
to find living means beyond the agriculture
=-- to transfer the people to the places with low population density
(iii)   The land per capita of every village selected as host village should be higher than the
average level of the county and still be not less than that average level and every
relocatee should have the land not less than 0.8 mu (irrigated land).
(d)   to resettle the relocatees in the vicinity of the previous residential areas
(i)    The order of the new residential sites selection is as follows:
--    within villages
--    neighboring villages within towns
other villages within towns
neighboring towns
other towns within county
--    specially planned host areas outside county with a short distance
(ii)   The sites selection should be in conformity with above (c).
(iii)  to increase the people employed in nonagricultural sectors in order to resettle the
relocatees nearby.
(e)   to relocate the relocatees in village groups (natural villages) so as to reduce the loose of
the social structure
(i)    The whole village group should be resettled in one village or near villages. In most
Page 22



cases, one new village is to be built;
(ii)   The relocated villages should be resettled in the collective way; if scattered, they
should be in the neighboring villages or near villages;
(iii)   The administrative staff should be relocated to the new village to keep the togetherness.
(iv)   exceptional cases of above principles:
---    nonagricultural population who must live in other places (such as factory);
----   some people who are transferred  from  the agricultural registrations into
nonagricultural ones and employed ( in factory, mineral and commercial sectors,
etc.);
----   few families who have relatives in other places within the county where there are
a lot of land or employment chances.
(f)   the employment standards met by the people who are transferred from the agricultural
registrations into nonagricultural ones.
(i)    above the education level of junior middle school (for industrial employment)
(ii)   between 16-35 years
(iii)   healthy in the mental and physical aspects
(iv)   if married, their spouses should have the similar qualities, so both of them can ask for
transferring agricultural registrations into nonagricultural ones at same time
(v)    separating oneself from the agricultural on a voluntary basis
(vi)  if having the similar work experience and special skill, they can go in for one similar
professional work (not be in conformity with f(i) and (ii))
(g)    not to repeat the activities without bright future or with backwardness
(i)   to replace and innovate the backward technologies in the modernized way so as to reach
the modernized economical and environmental standards (e.g. cement plant, fertilizer
plant);
(ii)   to give up those activities without competitive (e.g. coal exploitation, brick plant with
bad quality and crops with lower quality and lower price), to develop the activities with
bright future;
(h)   to provide every family with sufficient land for agricultural and nonagricultural
resettlement to ensure self-sufficiency in grain and livelihood.
4.3.4  Methods of Formulating Production Measures Planning for the Rural Resettlement.
The methods are stated as follows:
to analyze and count the resettlement population, labor forces and their qualities on the
basis of the investigation in 1994 and the counties' statistics and census as well as the
confirmed recheck results in 1994;
to investigate and study the local resources, social and economic status, development
Page 23



potentials and resettlement modes in the light of local government suggestions;
to select the host areas and investigate their various social and economic status;
to study the production measures, including amount of adjusted land, soil quality
analysis, the need to optimize planting and make nonagricultural production measures;
to analyze the living standards in relocated and host areas;
to perform the feasibility study on resettlement modes.
Page 24



Appendix A
Reservoir Inundation Impact
Page 25






_______ ________                                 Table  Relocated Population 11ow.                                                                                           _____
Administirative   Water Level    Inundation Affected  Phase If &lII                  'Annual  lotd Population  Pgeren                           ;Annual elcted Pplation (People)           Toal Po-pulati(on
Regionit     _                   P__u__i_n 194__194                199511Mg6192012000   2010   2011
Regions  84    Population (1994)      -      -~~~~~~~~~~ 199     9711998 19        20L21   2011  195    1996    1997               99       99     20      200      01 in Planning Base Year
llclowI3l. Isom              24200             0     0      0      0      0.   &        0      0      0      0 23026         0         0       0       0       0        0                25026
Total in        180 265M4                    123619       107239      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0N    0   16981   20647   28904   31602   33100           0        0               131235
Reservolir      265 -275M4                    20671        19832      0     0              0 0       o  0                    0      87?0      0      104       0      680   11035   12088                24771
Area            ofr'icial Workers              7101         4486      0     0      0          0      0      0                 0    2639       0        0       0  3948          0     514                 7101
____________Total                       175591       131533      0      0      0      0      0      00436 267 2DS362378 105 162193
Below FLI80m                 24200            0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0 25026         0         0       0       0       0        0                25026
Hienan Proivince  11(0-265M                   91871        75491                                      -             -        I   16981   14891    1821  22780    41_2____974_
265 275M4                     15106       14267      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     870       0         0       0     680    7813    8652                 MM01
Official Workers              5017         2402      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0   2615        0 1       0       0    1912       0      490                 s0il
_____________Total                      136194        92160                                                              0  45492   14891    1 8621   22780   26774    7813    9142                 145312
Below El18. I8to491                                       to1010111
Jiyuan City     180-265M                      20311        16571                  20      20    30    30                           3873    3222    4543    4930    4978         0       0                21546
265 275M4                     2165         150.3                                              s0     50            687                                       891      900                 2478
OlTicial Workers                972         761      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     211        0        0       0     624        0     137                  972
_____________Touta                       31939        18835                                                                  13488    3222    4543    4930    5602    1191    1037                   33712
Below El.I.80m               2467               __    100                                                        2558                                                                    2558
Mengjin County  180 26584                      6196         3818i                 20      20    30    30                          2466      647     1472     990    1000        0       0                 6575
265 275M4                     2802         2733                                               50     50             71                                       1620    1636                 3327-
Official Workers               629            0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0     629        0        0       0       0        0       0                  629
____________Total                        12094         6551                                                                   5724     647      t472     99(1   1000    1620    1636                 13099
Below El I Om                 13242                       100                                                    13750        0        0       0       0        0       0                13750
Xinasn          I 80 265M                     54839        44577                  20      20    30    30                          10642    8959    998    13705   14836         0       0                58121
county          265-275M4                      7364         7256                                              s0    50              112,      0        0        0       0   4032    4833                   8977
Official Woirkers              1620         1538     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      82        0        0       0    1251        0     271620
Total                        77065        53371                                                                  24586    8959      9986   13705   16087    4032    5120                 82475
1810265M4                    10356        10356                   20 I   20    30 130                                     2063 12621    3155    3187           0        0                11026
Mianchi         265 275M4                      2142         2142                                              5 0    50                                                      1270    1282                  2552
Covunty         Official Workers                103          103      0     0      0       0      0     0      0      0       0       0       0        0        0      37       0      66                   103
Total                         12601       12601                                                                           2063      2621    3155    3224    1 27     1348                13681l
________  ~180 26584                        169         169                                                                              0         0       0     182        0       0                  1821



._______                                                         Table  Relocated Population Flow
Administrsive   Water Level     Intundation Afrected  Phiae If &3I3                 Atmual Relcated       d     Pnercen Pam                   Anmal Relocted  bpu.(peole                Tal Ppulit
Regituies        M               Populetion-(399)   (1994)        I99   I9M   1997 I399t  1999  2000   2010  2011  199          IM9    I99       1998    1999    2000    2010   2011  a*Planning ban Yeef
Shanxian        265 275M                       633          633                        _00                   0      0                                              680       0       0                  680
___________ Total              302          #02                                                                            0        0       0     362        0       0                  862
Fourth Prisan   cblow El'.180m                1693                                                                              1693                                                                   1693
1 10 263M                    31743.      31745      0      0     O       O     O         0      0      0       0   0   5756   10253   6823    3918          0        0               33730
Shenxi          265 275M                      5565         5565                                                                            0      104        0       0    3222    3436                 6763
Officail Wokers               2034        2084      0      0      0      0      0     0      a      0      0      24       0                     2036               24                 20M
Total                        39397       39373                                                                    24   5756   10337   #1123  10954   3222    3460                    42627
1#0 265M                     30834       30834   _              20      20    30    30                                  5756    9322   8823    8913         0        0               32819
Yusnqu          265 275M                      4961         4961                                             50    SO                                                      2859    3195                 6055
olTcial Worker                199#         1974     0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      24       0        0       0    1950        0      24                 199#
r_otl                       37793        37769                                                                    24   5756    9322    U23   10365    2359    3219                   40371
1#0 265M                       482         482                         100                                                        507                                                  507
Pinyhu          2652753M                       5005         5W5                                              0      0                                                      363     241                 604
Orncial Workerc                 #6           8t6    0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0       0       0        0       0      #6        0       0                   #6
Total                         1073         1073                                                                            0 _    507       0       86    363      241                 1197
10 265M                        432         432                   0       0     0      0                                    0      454       0       0       0       0                  454
Xiaxian         265 275M                        99           99                                              0      0                             104                        0       O                  104
Total                          531         531                              .                                .5                             0       0       0        0                 553



Table A.2                         Areas of Land Impact
Type of land                           Total in the area    Percentage           Percentage
Total                                  416823               100
A      Cultivated land                 200745               48.2                 100
1.lrrigated land               90591                                     45.1
2.Dry land                     89285                                     44.5
3.Flood land                    14617                                    7.3
4.Vegetable field              6252                                      3.1
B      Garden                          26408                                     100
a.Orchard                      26330                6.3                  99.7
b.other garden                 78                                        0.3
C      Forests                         32887                                     100
a. Timber forest               24713                7.9                  75.1
I.Grown                        13612
2.Young                            1_                          ___
b.Fuel forest                  4065                                       12.4
c.Economic forests.            2578                                      7.8
d.Nursery of young plants       1531                                     4.7
D      Ponds                           1067                                      100
Fish ponds                     722                  0.3                  67.7
Reed ponds                     345                                       32.2
E      Grazing land                    23364                5.6
F      Wasted hills and slopes         48409                11.6
G      Land occupied by Village        28035                6.7
H      Site                            4807                 1.2
Other uses of land             9318                 2.2
J      Water area                      41515                10.0
Page 27



Table A.3             Areas of All Kinds of Rural Houses Inundated in 1994
Description               Unit                 Total               In Henan           In Shanxi
I.Area of main houscs    m:                    5761435            4368139              1393296
Area per capita           m                    35.9               34.6                 41.0
Prefabricated houses                           13.4                14.4                10.1
Brick and wood houses     %                    9.0                 8.1                 11.7
High brick houses         %                    6.7                 1.2                 23.8
Earth and wood houses     %                    6.0                 5.9                 6.1
High earth houses         %                    2.4                 1.6                 5.0
Brick and stone kilns     %                    27.8               33.6                 9.4
Earth kins                                     24.5               27.0                 16.7
Mixed houses              %                    10.2               8.1                  17.2
2. Area of secondary      n2                   1110363             850936              259427
house
Area per capia            m:                   6.9                 6.7                 7.6
3.Tool area of Kilns      m2                   6871798             5219075             1652723
Area per capita           m2                   43                 41                   49
Houses                  %                    55.0               63.0                 29.6
Kilns                   %_   55.0                                63.0                29.6
Popuation to live in the  Nos                   160308             1263409             33959
|rual houses
Page 28



Table A.4 Industries and Mines Affected by Inundation of Xiaolangdi Reservoir
Adminisirative      Nos of enterprises                           Nos of staff and workers
districts
Total         Industries      Mines         Total         Industries      Mines
Total               787           247             547            54499         12190           42309
Henan province      669            191            478            47326         8915            38411
Jiyuan city         191           23               168           4662          533             4129
Mengin              29            9               20             2274          39303           7781
Xin'an              118            140            278            39303         7781            32522
Mianchi             30             19              1 1           967           445             522
Shanxian            1                              1             120                           120
Total in Shanxi     118           56              62             7173          3275            3898
province
Yuanqu              105           54              62             7173          3275            3898
Xiaxian
Pinglu              13            2                l l           653           33              620
Page 29



Table A.5                  Inundation Affected Infrastructure
________  Items                   Total in Reservo Hena Jivu Imenri iXin, Mianch Shanxia Shanx YYuaniuXiaxian Pinqlu
I Roads       Total          Nos.   No               . 167  136   42       11   53      24        6      31     25        1      5
Length KM             1022.4  855  174   72.8  480    111         16.5    168    141        3   24.4
County LeveX NOa.  No.                   18   17    7        0    4  .6             0      1      1        0      0
Lenqth Km              190.2.  157   30       0   74      53         0  32.9   32.9         0      0
Coutny-Xiang Lenqtt No.                  17   13    8        1    2       2         0      4      2        0      2
_Lenqth Km             136.8    97   63        6   10      18        0  39.6   27.6          0     12
Village Leve Nos.   No.                 132  106   27       10   47      16         6     26     22        1      3
_Lenqt  Km             695.4  600   81   66.8  396         40     16.5   95.4      80        3   12.4
II Power      35kv transformer    NO.                    4     3    1       0    2       0        0       1      1        0      0
Facilities    35kv lines            Km               49.6    42   15        0   27       0        0   7.3    7.3          0      0
10kv lines  |Nos.   No.                 226  186   20       10  137      16         3     40     35        1      4
_Length Km             867.7  696    71       68  441    109       7.5    172    150         5     17
Low-voltage line    Km                 1502  350  168    114   010       57         5   149    123         8     18
III Communic county-xiang Nos.  No.                    26    19      7      1    8       1        2       7      6       0       1
Facilities                _ Length Km                219  177   20        16   93      18       30     42      36       0       6
village line Nos.   N.                   e81   63   31      10     9     12         1     18     13        2      3
Lenqth Km              453.4  394    79      82  109    114         10  59.4   50.4         5      4
Overhead Cable        Km               43.2    43   40       0  2.2       1         0      0      0        0      0
Embeded Cable         Km                 62    32     0     24     0      8         0     30     30        0      0
IV Broatcast Broadcastinq Aienci NO.                    12     8    1       1    5       1        0       4      4               0
county-xiang Nos.  No.                   16   10      4      1    4       1         0      6      6        0      0
Lenqt Km               179.5  139  7.5       16   65      50         0     41     41        0      0
Village Line Nos.   No.                 177  135   36       12   55      24         8     42     39        2      1
__ Lenct Km          713.06  613    88       82  252    170    21.06    100       85        5     10
V Relav Station                      No.                13     9    1       1    5       2         0      4      4        0      0



Table A.6   Facilities of Culture, Education, and Health Affected by Inundation
|hItemns   | Education                               Health                               Cullume
Middle        Pnmary       Training    Hospial    Clinic       Health       Cinema        Libary       Cultural
school        school       center                              station                                 station
Total in      25            161           1          14          185          15           15           2            160
the
resctvoir
area
Henan         19            114                      8           133         8            9             1            119
provmce
Jiyuan city    13           31                       1           39           I            1            1            39
Mengjpn       6             13                       I          24      -     I           2                          13
Xin'an        5             52                       5          52           5            5                          50
Mianchi       6             14                       I           13           I            1                         13
Shanxian      2             4                                   5                                                    4
Total of                    47            I          6           52           7           6             1            41
Shanxi
province
Yuanqu        6             41            I          6          45            7           6             1            38
Xiaxian       6              1                                   1
Pinghk                      5                                    6                                                   3
Page 31



5.    Resettlement of the Construction Area
Resettlement of the construction area began with the preparation works of XLD project,
including two component: move for land requisition for the works and launching a pilot project
of XLD village resettlement, simultaneously, plan for construction land use and resettlement was
made. In may 1992, after review and approval of Report on Plan of Construction land Use and
Resettlement in the Preliminary Design Stage of XLD Multipurpose Dam Project prepared and
submitted to MWR, RPDI made further design for resettlement implementation and after two
year's efforts, resettlement of construction area finished basically in 1994.
5.1   Resettlement Planning For the Construction Area
The construction area covers dam area as well as accesses on southern and northern banks,
involving 10574 persons, of which 9932 lived in the dam area, 295 persons in the access areas,
347 persons in Liuzhuang railway station and the villages are responsible for solve difficulties
of 3683 affected persons in production and livelihood development after they had been
compensated for the land use.
12 villages, with total affected population of 8418 persons, in the dam area are involved in
resettlement, 6618 person have been resettled in 12 villages, now 21 residential sites have been
put up, except for some of the resettlers in XLD village, Shimen and Qinghe in Mengjin and
Liaowu villge in Jiyuan city who were resettled within county, the rest were resettled backward
in their villages. Land base agriculture is the main direction for resettlement, the resettlers can
have I mu of cultivated land after land adjustment and allocation in the neighboring village. 27
pumped wells have been dug, 1 water-lift station been set up, thus 0.43 mu irrigated land per
capita can be developed. Besides, there are 2106 non agricultural persons, they are workers who
came to factories when new workers were enrolled, workers on basis of contract who have
become official workers, workers who are employed in the third industries, in access
maintenance squads, relatives of official staff whose registrations are transferred to non
agriculture registrations.
The resettlers in access area and Liuzhuang railway station are all arranged by their village for
production (by land adjustment) except for 293 resettlers in Madong village who have moved
to a new residential site.
Details about construction land use for XLD project and report on resettlement implementation
plan was included in Resettlement, Appendix 1, Part II in Vol. IX of Brief Report on XLD project
and submitted to the world bank by CIPM, so it is not necessary to give further description here.
5.2  Implementation of Construction Area Resettlement:
5.2.1 Resettlement: from 1992 when XLD village was set up as a pilot resettlement village to
April 1994, totally 12 new resettlement residential sites have been put up, including 6 in
Mengjin county: Xioalangdi, Shimen, Shiyuanpo, Liuzhuang, Qinghe and Heqing, 6 villages in
Page 32



Jiyuan city: Tongshuling, Qiaogou, Liaowu, Qiaogou, Shuangtang and Liandi, Madong village
in Jili district of Luoyang city. 29600m' new houses have been put up for the resenlers,
infrastructure as water, power supply, roads, communication and broadcast, etc have been
completed.2315 households have moved into new houses, and with 8500 mu land, allocated,
the resettlers have 1 mu cultivated land per capita. Besides, 963 resettlers are employed in 12
county/city run enterprises in Mengjin and Jiyuan, 31 enterprises have been initiated in the new
resettlement villages and 408 labours been employed. See table 5-1. Except for 38 resettlers in
Dayu township in Jiyuan city who were incorporated in Phase I reservoir resettlement, the
construction area resettlement has now been completed.
5.2.2 Incomes of Construction Area Resettlers
Sampling survey for 82 resettled households in the dam area was conducted in 1995 by
YRWHDC for making sure the changes of family incomes before and after resettlement. Before
resettlement, annual net income per capita is 485.8 yaun and 1014.3 yuan respectively before
and after resettlement. Base on income levels, they can be grouped as follows:
Income level         Before Resettlement          after resettlement
less than 300 Yuan    35 households (42.7%)      19 households (23.2%)
300---500 yuan        20 households (24%)        11 households (13.4%0
500 ---800 yuan       16 households (19.5%)      15 households (18.3%0
800---1000 yuan       3 households (3.7%)        10 households (12.2%0
More than 1000 yuan     8 households (9.8%)       27 households (32.9%0
In the composition of resettlement economic incomes, before resettlement, agricultural incomes
accounted for 48.4%, part time jobs for 39.4%, sideline activities for 16,5; after resettlement
in 1995 agricultural incomes for 15.3, part time job for 68.4% and sideline activities for 16.5%.
It is demonstrated that after resettlement employment opportunities can be provided at the site,
thus incomes from part time job have become major component of incomes.
5.2.3 Funds Allocation for Construction Area Resettlement
Cost for construction area resettlement was estimated to be 144.77 million yuan (reviewed and
verified by MWR, 1992), Henan province and MWR has reaches agreement that 143 million
yuan be provided by Henan province and all the funds were allocated at the beginning of 1994,
of which 20.5667 million yuan were put into construction of accesses on southern and northern
banks as well as Liuzhuang railway station. Additional 50 million yuan were allocated by MWR
in the fourth quarter of 1994 as advance payment for budget adjustment because of price changes
in the construction area in recent years.
5.2.4 Summery of Construction Area Resettlement
A.   After resettlement, measures for production and livelihood rehabilitation have been put
Page 33



into effect basically, living conditions and environment have been improved obviously. The
resettlers have 1 mu cropping land per capita, and house of 42.8 m2 per capita. Power supply
and tap water facilities are complete in each village, schools and kindergartens have been put
up.
B.    Because most of the reservoir area resettlers are resettled backward near the dam site,
some can take part time jobs to increase their incomes and thus they ignore agriculture
production, which has caused attentions of relevant authorities.
C.   Construction Area Resenlement: because the resettlers here are not willing to leave the
dam area, and the land capacity is limited, 1 mu per capita is not enough. Beside the output of
the existing cultivated land, development of enterprises in the resettlement villages is very
important means to increase the resettlers' incomes. Up to now, 31 enterprises have been
initiated, of which only 1/3 are in comparatively better economic conditions. Table 5-1 shows
the details. In general, management for enterprises in resettlement village and training must be
strengthened thus all the enterprises can have economic benefits.
D.   Shiyuanpo and Liuzhuang in Mengjin county were resettled backward, it was planned to
change the earth material area back to cultivated land, and in this way, the resettlers can have
1.48 and 1.25 mu land per capita respectively in the two villages. But in fact, XLD project will
last 7-8 years, with the earth materials area occupied, the resettlers in the two villages can only
have 0.7 and 0.4 mu per capita respectively, which is all dry land and can not yield enough
grains. At present subsidies are provided to make up grain shortage for some resettlers, and
series of measures have been taken by county resettlement offices and RPDI to solve the
problem, such as changing gullies and land occupied by old houses into new cultivated land,
development of village run enterprises, sending labours to the site. The optimized program has
not determined because the resettlers have different opinions. Further efforts should be made to
implement better resettlement for the two villages.
Page 34



Table 5-1        Damsite Resefflement-VIllage Owned Enterprises
Counties    Village   Item              Enterprises                Operation      Investment (10000 yuan)       Workers               Operation
(Cities)                                                            Time         Total   For Resettlement   Total   Relocatces          Status
I _  Peanut Processing Plant                      Jan-93           115                85      _                         bad
Liandi        2  Commnerial Building                                         30                20 _                              sold
Jiyuan                  3  Xitan Breeding Plant                      Mar-95          41.3              29.3       3                       well
Liaowu        4  Agricultural Trades (Vegetables)          Dec-94            40                26                                well
Qiaogou       5  Building Stone Proceeding Plant           Feb-93             3                1.2                               well
Tongshuling    6  E3rick Making Plant                      Jun-93            28                28                                bad
Liuzhuang     7  Flour Mill                                                 280               100                         Under Construction
Potou         S  Edible Oil Plant                                          1600               500                         Under Construction
l_otal                                                                                      789.5
l  XLD Steel Rolling Mill                   Jul-93           500               300      90           40          better
2  XLD Steel Plate Plant                    Dec-94           150                50      40           20           bad
3  XLD Leather Factory                       1991             4.51               3      13            10          well
Mengjin  XLD            4  XLD Vehicles Repair Factory              May-95      70 (by Steel Rolling Mill)       35           20          better
5  XLD Forging Facory                       May-95      71 (by Steel Rolling Mill)      55            18          vell
6  XLD Scorpion Raising Farm                Mar.95               L               15      6             3          well
7  XLD Mechanized Engineering Co.            1991       to be invested, cooperative     60           20           well
a  XLD Engineering Comnany                             to be invested                    6            6           well
9  Semi-axis Plant of Shengwang              Jan-92           86                86                   64          better
Siyuanpo          Vehicles Spare Parts Bloc
10 Gears Plant of Shengwang                 Apr-94             71                71     116           20          better
Vehicles Spare Parts Bloc                                 153               153
l Chassis Plant of Shengwang                Apr-94                                                    20          well
Vehicles Spare Parts Bloc
Shimen        12 Steaming Precast Slab Plant               Aug-94            25                25                                well
13 Hengxiang Superhard Materials Co.                           70                70                         Under Construction
Liuzhuang     14 Zhongwang Machinery Factory               Jun-92            54                50 _16                            well
15 Steel Spring Plate Factory               Mar-94             72                60                   21          better
16 Jinlong Furniture Plant                  May-94             25                21                   17          better
17 Pig Raising Farm                          Jan-94            27                25                   14          better
Heqing        18 Precast Slab Plant                         Jul-92           25                25                    32         better
19 Vehicles Spare Parts Plant               Aug-93            1I                1S                    II          better
20 Mechanized Brick Plant                    Jul-91            20                IS                   20           well
21 Tong Tree Pegboard Plant                  Dec-93        _  38                 30   =               22          well
Qinghe        22 Precast Slab Plant                        May-94            25                25                    14         better
23 Commemial Foundry                         Jul-94            55                50                                well
Total                                                                           I             1089                  408
36



6.    Revised Resettlement Implementation Plans
6.1   Process of the Revision
The period of the preliminary design for XLD resettlement implementation plan is from 1986
to 1991, and the plan was reviewed and approved by and MWR, SPC in 1992. In 1993 at the
time of the appraisal by the world bank, due to various reasons, it was not possible to finalize
the detailed implementation plan. So the appraisal was based on the preliminary plan. Resurvey
result in 1993 indicates that compared with the preliminary plan great changes of the background
values (such as number of resettlers, living standard, etc.)existed, thus from 1995, organized by
YRWHDC and controlled technically by RPDI and with the local government as the main
participants plans have been optimized, especially site selection, on basis of the report of
preliminary design and the world bank's appraisal report, and the design for resettlement
implementation in technical construction period have been made.
6.2   Phasing and Schedule for Resettlement Plans
During the project construction, resettlement is implemented in 4 phases. Phase I involves
construction area resettlement from 1992 to 1994; Phase II involves Phase I reservoir area
resettlement (El. 180 and the affected) from 1994 to 1996, Phase HI refers to Phase II
resettlement in the reservoir area (El.180--265m), which is planned to finish in 1997---2000,
Phase IV refers to Phase III resetdement of the reservoir(EI.265--275m and the effected), which
was planned to finish in 2010-2011. Now pursuant to the direction of SPC, it must be
completed in 2000-2003. In order to keep the continuance, descriptions in this report are still
given on basis of the original plan. See table B.6 and Figure B.1
6.3   Phase I Reservoir Area Resettlement Plans
6.3.1 Resettlement tasks: Phase I resettlement refers to resettlement below El. 180, involving
Mengjin, Jiyuan and Xin'an in Henan province. In plan base year (1994), 26155 people were
affected directly by inundation. In view that communication and power may be broken off by
inundation, people at El 180m--275m were also moved and resettled in village, in fact, Phase
I stage resettement actually involved 27 administrative villages in 7 township in 3 counties (city)
and 48200 mu land including I location of township government will be inundated. The total
population in plan base year is 44590 persons, of which 40442 are agricultural, 416 are
inhabitants in town, 1450 in mains and industries, 90 in the institutions not controlled by the
township. At the end of plan base year(1996), there are 46133 people totally, with agricultural
population of 40442 persons and population of 451 inhabitants in town, and numbers of other
population remains unchanged.
There are more resettlers in Xin'an county, which exceeds the land capacity of the county. and
they can not all be resettled within the county, so 10940 here moved to Yima city, Wcngmentan
and Yuanyang county downstream of the Yellow River. Table 5.1 shows the plan. Resettlers in
Mengjin and Jiyuan city are resettled within the county or city.
Page 36



6.3.2 Implementation Plan for Xin'an County
In plan base year there are 131030 resettlers in 4181 households (in the rural area), 14
residential sites are planned to build, New site for Xiwo township as well as 3 institutions not
under control of township will be reconstructed.
12991 agricultural people in Xin'an county were resettled within the county and 85.2% of the
labours were engaged in land based agriculture, 6.6% of the resettlers (863 persons) and 3.5%
of the labours(225 persons) were resettled by means of transferring their agricultural
registrations to no agricultural registrations(just for the relatives of state official staff)6.2% (800
persons) of the resettlers and 12.3% of the labours(800 persons) were resettled by transferring
the workers on basis of contract and temporary workers into official workers, see Table B. I and
B.2.
6.3.2.2        Plan for Agriculture Rehabilitation
13524 mu original land has been allocated to the relocatees engaged in land based agriculture,
1.19 mu per capita. Agricultural measures, including farm works construction (developing slopes
into terrace, land preparation, soil improvement, etc), hydraulic works construction(pumped
wells, water-lifting station and Duajiagou reservoir) as well as planting structure optimization
have been put into effect to improve capability of productive forces. Based on the above
mentioned measures, the resettlers could have 0.4 mu irrigated land after resettlement, see Table
B.3 for the details.
Based on amount of land allocated to the resettlers and calculation by linear planning model,
there are 2646 labours spared, accounting for 41 % of the resettlers engaged in land based
agriculture, who have been engaged in development of forestry and orchards(apple and
pomegranate trees), green houses for vegetable growing, aquaculture(beef cattle and chicken)
as well as other village run enterprises. See   Table B.4.
6.3.2.3        Resettlement of Mines and Industries
147 mines and industries are affected by Phase I reservoir inundation of which 77 village run
enterprises and personal enterprise were resettled outside county. Measures for the inundated
enterprises were determined with reference to opinions of local government, enterprises and the
market conditions, including enterprise reconstruction, change of enterprise production line (or
combination of enterprises), cancel of enterprise. 13 of 70 enterprises in Xin'an county have
been reconstructed, 47 have changed their production lines and 10 been canceled. Most of the
canceled enterprises were small personal mines with few temporary workers, which may not
cause difficulties for their livelihood.
Compensation for all the mines and industries were based on physical inundated items.
See table B.5.
6.3.3         Implementation plan for Jiyuan city
Page 37



6.3.3.1        Physical Resettlement
In the plan base year. there are 13277 resettlers in 3743 households, 19 new residential
sites have been put up. There are 13012 agricultural resettlers, of which 5654 are
labours. In the plan there are 12635 resettlers who will be engaged in land based
agriculture (accounting for 97.1%),5460 labours(accounting for 96.6%), 129 resettlers
and 55 labors whose agricultural registration have been transferred to non agricultural
registrations(just for relatives of official staff), representing for 1%. Only 248 persons
and 139 labours will find jobs themselves or depend on their relatives, only accounting
for 1.9%.See table B.2 and table B.1 and B.2.
Page 38



Table 6-1                                                      Summery of Phase I Reservoir Area Resettlement Plan(rural area)
11.k               Tool           MoojO.              J129o  shy                                                    XW.....m
s.0
Tool                       WOI... .ov                                (M¶4k 140*Y
_________________________                                           __________                                                                           S.i.4.ool       51,0.1..        1(92.19           Yoo.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.&U a  m i.  1 - 1 1  Y
l.,ssI.I h. .s i -uj,.                    N.- .il   0d.                             N..               12 t7            21       5     t  1747             716                        41t1                  3375           14D t            2.J 1714
6       . IV l     kd                  N..                 4242.1        09 1M               11277            2A0.1                      1 010                 11021          461*             L16                49
N,w0 .Jowl 4.                            N..                 4              7                  I9               is                         14                   4               2                I
Fluhatlkn lahJ41gFlb n          FP,TwA..i                                 Ns                  194D         49                  1|1               r'5l3                      IM tWt                              4.                                 49 *1>
Ii,..,,                                  N-.                 193I           t 21W5             .6h4             11.16                      605                  4t.10           tO1              30'              2414
5.6- ...- - W.1. Is.so                     ...W.                                   N'.                 11921          4505                 2631           16702                       11321                547            4190            5816
I.._                                     N.                  15123          2160              1W0               7997                      s.o 1                  2416           20DJ I.1I
I 1~I..1O,9      l               m        Pg , t ...a  kw                                              3 w  177044   6148                12120 6          19417                      13524                191t  5         4*4  a          916               130
an.lMw  4.J                   =           w                  17076          9913                121206 1h9021                              1124                  94191 0I                        916      =       ID
Amo   &d.spi 6_           d kw           o                   242_114        2192               1210.06          9W7D                       4111                   525 4         4W06            *56               I )
C.11tW               L.iM                  WI 11.4.          I at     I     112                096 I9I U                                  e 1.19                 1I01           0 96             1 07
._ nMW 11  pC,  -Pa.wlg. q.*4                                0.77           0 60               0.96             0.64                       0 44                  1.06           105              1 07
2 F..-,.  d  .sh1 d)                      Aft. .4 .-eh                             ow                  10101          902                 15121 5         M8I                         2_0                 2t9             29
1Uk0  _0.43.                             M4h. 152                                                               194 1079  194               154                  40             40
Ar-.                                     n                   2077.                             1777.1          .1                          .1(01
LI.*   .qWJ                              N.                  2240                               160             Mo                         JOD
4 Aq.o...h.                               Kinb 4 llw..  am j..*y                                                      Pig .6hkk.         Pi.g                                       (tk1,n. 6.t                           Frh             DI..k  I1
Lih.-  ..g.p                             N,.                594             A                   152             %1                          114                  47             12               Is
* V.11.0.mgl ¢-..q.l.. 1N..                                                        N..                 47             9                  9                29                          22                   7              4                I
U.- .  qlWJ                              NM.                 1370          615                 461              2291                       1474                  411            !11             12
n.. ._ oy n .. ...r             N.                                        N..                                                                    3                                                J
IJ*.. eoqol+J                            N..                 549                              _4                                                                 149            .U9
h,46.. I  5406 0.406...  1l z .i    m       -..  lis   00     t.. Oo W  a r     n 1.I 1L n
!   rhNi   ulk d.-....  is.h..  .oho n .4lgrik4 1  ntI n.b.
Page 39



6.3.3 Resettlement Implementation in Jiyuan City
6.3.3.1      Physical Resettlement
In the plan base year, there are 13277 persons in 3747 households involved in resettlement. 19
residential sites are planned to build. There are 13012 agricultural resettlers, of which 5654 are
labours. In the plan, 12635 resettlers (accounting for 97.1%), 5460 labours(accounting for
96.6%) are engaged in land-based agriculture, there are 129 resettlers, 55 labours whose
agricultural registrations have transferred to no-agricultural ones(accounting for I %), there are
ondy 246 resettlers, 139 labours who will depend on their relatives or find jobs themselves,
accounting for 1.9%, see table B.1 and B.2.
6.3.3.2      Planning for Agricultural Production Reestablishment
The relocatees in Jiyuan city are to be resettled in the plain area near to the suburbs with
allocated farmland of 12120.6mu (mostly irrigated land), 0.96 mu per capita. The agricultural
productivity and irrigation guarantee are to be improved by developing well irrigation, small-
sized pumping stations, gravity irrigation. After the planting structure mode is optimized, the
3546 surplus labors (62.7% of the total labors) are to be resettled by developing forestry and
orchards (apples), green booth, aquaculture (pig and chicken raising) and (9) village run
enterprises. See tables B.3 and B.4 for details.
6.3.3.3      Relocation and Construction of Industries and Mines
There are 74 industries and mines in Jiyuan inundated in Phase I, of which one is to be
relocated, 44 enterprises are to be switched to other production or switched to other production
due to incorporation, the others are to be set free. The workers in industries and mines are to
be relocated with their enterprises, the free enterprises are the individual or individual jointly
run small-sized coal mines and small-sized individual run enterprises whose workers are the
seasonal temporary ones and are not to be resettled. See table B.6 for details.
6.3.4 Mengjin County Implementation Planning
6.3.4.1      Resettlement
There are 2 villages, 27 resident groups in Mengjin county to be inundated. In the planning base
year, there are 1518 households (5095 people) to be resettled in 7 sites and 4997 relocatees
(2395 labors) to be resettled in production. According to the plan, 90.2% of the relocatees
(90.4% of the labors) are resettled in land-based agriculture; 7.4% (370 people) of the total
relocatees (4.6% of the labors: 110 people) are to be transferred from agricultural registrations
to nonagricultural ones as officials and their dependents: 2.4% (119 people) of the total (5% of
the labors: 119 people) are the contractual and temporary workers of the state-run enterprises
and are to be resettled in nonagriculture. See table B. 1 and B.2 for details.
Page 40



6.3.4.2     Planing for Agricultural Production Rehabilitation
There are 6148mu farmland allocated for Mengjin county agricultural resettlement with 1.32 mu
per capita. The agricultural productivity is to be improved by taking such measures as farmland
works (terracing the slopes, land levelling, soil improvement), hydraulic works (pumped wells
and embedded pipe irrigation) and planting structure optimization. 18 pumped wells are to be
built, 2192 mu irrigated land is to be developed with 0.65mu per capita. The surplus 1299 labors
(54.2% of the labors in landbased agriculture) are to be resettled in forestry and orchards,
aquaculture (chicken and pig raising) and (9) village run enterprises to restore the relocatees'
living standard. See tables B.3 and B.4 for details.
6.3.4.3     Switching to Other Production of Industries and Mines
There are 13 enterprises affected by Phase I inundation with 2218 workers, most of which are
coal mines. According to the plan, 7 enterprises are to be switched to other production, 6
enterprises are to be relocated and constructed. Five-One Coal Mine run by Mengjin county is
one of the larger mines in the XLD reservoir area with 1187 workers, of which 629 are regular
workers, is to be switched into three enterprises: Yellow River special steel factory, Curved
timber processing plant and ring rolled forge piece factory. The switched items are being carried
out. See table B.5 for details.
-6.3.5 Resettlement Outside the County
6.3.5.1     Selection of the Host Areas
It is difficult to resettle the relocatees within the counties for Xin'an and Jiyuan counties (city)
with a large number of relocatees, heavy rural population density and limited land capacity.
During the preliminary design period, it was pointed out that 52545 people of these two counties
would move outside the counties and be resettled according to two resettlement programs: one
was to resettle in Wenmengtan and beneficiary counties along with the Yellow River (Yuanyang,
Zhongmu and Kaifeng), the other in Yima city (back up one). The program of resettlement
outside counties was optimized continuously after 1991. In 1994 Yima city, Yuanyang county
and Mengxian county were decided as the host areas receiving 10940 people from Xin'an during
Phase I resettlement in the reservoir area.
The selection of the host area and sites for the relocatees is decided on the basis of serious
analysis and many verifications by county, municipal and provincial governments and competent
authorities and environmental capacity analysis by YRCC. The decision on host area selection
and resettlement program is placed the basis on the actual conditions of the host area. The
impact upon the host villages is analyzed and verified and a series of measures are taken to
present the willingness of the relocatees and the interests of the host residents. In general, the
host area selection and decided resettlement program are feasible.
6.3.5.2     Wenmengtan River Channel Training and Resettlement
Page 41



The work of Wenmengtan river channel training and warping for soil improvement is the basis
of the Wenmengtan resettlement in a central way, including two parts: river channel training and
warping for soil improvement. The channel training is carried out by building spurs and
protection dikes to specify river pattern and improve flood control standard and protect the host
areas; the warping for soil improvement is to improve the soil in the host area so as to make the
soil cultivated and provide the necessary means of production and livelihood to the relocatees.
This area can provide 81000 mu land and receive 50000 people. Mengxian county, as one pilot
of Wenmengtan resettlement, is to receive 4598 people (2031 labors) from Xin'an county who
are to be resettled in higher flood plain of Wenmengtan to farm. The land per capita is 1.05mu.
the productivity will be improved by means of warping for soil improvement, land levelling and
well and channel irTigation. After resettlement, the irrigated land is to be 1 .OSmu per capita. The
832 surplus labors are to be resettled in forestry, orchard (apple), aquaculture (fish), (4) village-
run enterprises and (3) county-run technically reformed and enlarged industries to rehabilitate
previous living standard. See tables B.3 and B.4 for details.
6.3.5.3      Yuanyang County Resettlement
There are 856 relocatees (of which the 385 labors) from Huangpo village of Xin'an county to
be resettled in Yuangyang county to work on land-based agriculture with 1.07 mu farmland per
capita (all are irrigated land). The irrigation guarantee and relocatees' productivity level can be
improved by way of developing well irrigation and gravity irrigation, improving planting
structure (mainly rice). The 217 surplus rural labors are to be resettled in aquaculture (fishes and
ducks) and village run enterprises. The industries and mines to be inundated will be switched
to new village-run items. The production items have been carried out with the bright future.
6.3.5.4      Yima City Industrial Resettlement Planning
There are 5468 reloctees (of which 2414 labors) from Xin'an county to be resettled in Yima city
as industrial (nonagricultural) resettlement. All of the labors are to be employed in 2 large-sized
state run enterprises, 12 city run enterprises and 4 enterprises transferred from village run
enterprises (4 enterprises transferred from 52 inundated industrial and mineral enterprises in
Kuangkou village). The relocatees' residential quarters, service industry, building vegetable base
and setting vegetable funds are planned to ensure the semi-able-bodied workers' employment;
some measures are taken in social welfare and social security such as establishing endowment
insurance funds, unemployment insurance funds, etc. to ensure the resettlement implementation
to carry out smoothly.
6.4   Phase II and m  Resettlement Planning for Reservoir Area
6.4.1 General in Implementation Planning
6.4.1.1      Main Tasks of the Resettlement
The total relocatees in Phase II and Phase III are 143181 in the planning base year, of which,
Page 42



Phase 11 118985 people (Henan 83066 people, Shanxi 35919 people), Phase III 23637 people
(16955 people in Henan, 6682 people in Shanxi). The agricultural population of two phases is
127701 people in total, of which, 105741 people in Phase II and 21960 people in Phase III.
There are 11 township sites to be relocated and constructed, of which 9 sites in Phase II (6 sites
in Henan, 3 sites in Shanxi), 2 sites in Phase HI (one in Henan and Shanxi respectively). There
are 554 industries and mines to be moved and constructed.
6.4.1.2    Implementation Planning Progress
The resettlement planning and design for Phase II and Phase III are under the way and to be
finished in draft for counties by the end of April, 1997 and will be submitted to the MWR and
SPC for review in June, 1997. Up to now, the overall planning program for 6 of 8 counties in
the reservoir area, i.e. Yuanqu, Pinglu and Xiaxian counties in Shanxi province, Mengxian,
Mianchi and Shanxian counties in Henan province has been finalized and the details of the
planning and design for implementation stage are being conducted by the design institute of
YRCC. The overall program for Xin'an county and Jiyuan city is still not finalized because of
heavy resettlement task, limited environmental capacity and resettlement outside counties. Henan
provincial government is actively engaged in this work.
6.4.2 Shanxi Provincial Implementation Planning
The overall resettlement planning for Shanxi province was entrusted to the design institute of
YRCC to analyze, study and verify in September, 1995 and given suggestions and
recommendations by the experts so as to make it more scientific and reasonable. The detailed
planning and design is being carried out on the basis of the above. The relocatees of Pinglu and
Xiaxian counties in Shanxi with a small resettlement task are to be resettled in the places near
to counties or move back within the villages and also work on the farming. The attention is
mainly paid to Yuanqu county below.
6.4.2.1     Resettlement
Because Yuanqu county in Shanxi province, the most heavily affected county among 8 counties
in the reservoir area, with 21% of the agricultural population in the whole county, bears the
heavy resettlement task with great difficulties, therefore, MWR has approved to rebuild the
Houhe reservoir to expand the irrigation district so as to receive the relocatees. There are 34701
agricultural population in Yuanqu county in the planning base year to be settled, of which 45 %
to be resettled in Houhe irrigation district, 33% to move back, 8% to be resettled in near
Changgao area, 14% in Chengnan area. See table B.6 for details.
There are 58 host sites for them.
6.4.2.2     Agricultural Production Rehabilitation
8266 labors in land based agricultural resettlement in Yuanqu county takes up 53.3% of the total
labors. 39393 mu farmland are to be allocated with 1. 13mu per capita. After resettlement, the
Page 43



productivity is improved by taking such measures as terracing 2725mu slopes, accounting for
69.2% of the production land, building 29 wells and 26 pumped stations, using the irrigated land
(13049mu) in Houhe irrigation district so as to make the irrigated land per capita reach 0.67mu,
constructing 1203mu green booth with energy reservation and developing aquaculture (beef
raising and development).
7237 labors are planned to be resettled in Second and Third estates, mainly working on thermal
plant (with installed capacity of 50000 kw), leather deeply processing and corn starch production
to ensure them to restore the previous living standard.
6.4.2.3     Houhe Reservoir Project and Irrigation District Planning
Houhe reservoir and irrigation district project is the compensation work of the XLD reservoir
resettement, including arch grouted stone gravity dam with height of 73.5m and 75000mu
irrigation district. At present, the design for Houhe reservoir has reviewed by the MWR (not
approved) and the prepreparation work (construction access, houses construction, water supply,
power supply, communication and land requisition for construction, etc.) has been completed
and the main work started to construct formally on December 5, 1996 after tendering and will
be completed in June, 1997. According to the design, the dam is 74.5m high in maximum with
the axis of dam crest of 134.31m and total storage capacity of 13750000m3 and total volume of
33000n3 in earth and rock excavation 54000mn3 in grouted stone, 38000m3 in concrete and 203t
of mechanical structure instaliation. The optimized design for Houhe reservoir has been finished
and has been successful in review and evaluation by the China International Engineering
Consulting Corporation. The artery channel, 17.9km long, has maximum current velocity of
3m3Js; the west main channel with transmission rate of 23/s, is 13.6km long; the east main
channel with transmission rate of 13/s is 15.4kmn long. The total length of the main is 46.9km.
Houhe irrigation district would receive 15000 people according to the previous plan and are to
receive 15555 people after analysis on the environmental capacity and the overall resettlement
planning for Yuanqu county.
6.4.2.4     Relocation and Construction of the Industries and Mines
There are 105 enterprises to be inundated in Yuanqu county, of which 54 industries and 51
mines, with 6520 workers in total, of which 3242 people in industries and 3278 people in mines.
On the basis of the status of the imndated enterprises, market and resources conditions, 54
enterprises are to be relocated and constructed, 31 enterprises are to be switched to other
production, 78 enterprises are to be set free after obtaining the compensation. The workers are
to be relocated and resettled with their enterprises. The enterprises to be free are mostly the
individual run-coal mines whose workers are mostly seasonal temporary workers and little
impact will be upon them due to their enterprises free.
6.4.3 Henan Provincial Resettlement Implementation Planning
There are 91331 people to be resettled during Phase II and Phase III rural resettlement, of which
Page 44



6500 people from Mengjin county, 12816 people from Mianchi county, 862 people from
Shanxian county, all of them are to move back in villages or move to near places. There are
35148 people in Xin'an county, of which 17187 people (30.5% of the total) can be resettled
within the county according to the environmnental capacity analysis, the rest 69. % of the total
(35961 people) are to be resettled outside the county. Among the people to be resettled outside
the county, 3000 people are to be resettled in Yanshi of Luoyang city and 32961 people are to
move in Wenmengtan and three counties (Zhongmu, Kaifeng and Yuanyang) along with the
lower reach of the Yellow River .
Wenmengtan will receive 50882 people during Phases 1, II and III resettlement, which
corresponds to the overall planning that Wenmengtan can receive 50000 people and allocates
land 81000mu.
The resettlement implementation planning for five counties in Henan province is under the way
and no details of it can be provided here.
6.5   Summary of Resettlement Planning Changes since 1994
Since 1994 when the project was evaluated, the resettlement planning has been studied
continuously and deeply. Compared with the preliminary design. the resettlement implementation
planning does not be changed greatly and only are properly adjusted due to the additional tasks
so as to make it more close to the relocatees' intention. The adjustment is stated as follows:
Phase I resettlement in Xin'an county: The program that all would be resettled within
the county has adjusted to that some are to be resettled in Wenmengtan to reduce the
pressure of resettlement within the county.
--   Compared with the preliminary design, 9127 agricultural population are increased in
Xin'an county, accordingly, the host area is also added in Yima and Yanshi cities
(county) which receive 8486 people to be resettled outside the county so that the
resenlement within the county remains unchanged.
----  Phase I resettlement in Jiyuan: The program that all would move back in preliminary
design has adjusted to that some are to be resettled in the near urban to give a model to
and encourage Jiyuan resettlement.
---  'Yima city resettlement: The preliminary design and planning is considered as back-up
program and is carried out as formal program now. It will receive 5549 people from
Xin'an county.
---   The added host site Yanshi of Luoyang city is to receive 3000 people from Xin'an county
in agriculture.
----  41743 people to be resettled in Wenmengtan according to the preliminary design have
been adjusted to 50000 people(9000 people newly added).
----   To transfer the agricultural registrations to nonagricultural ones is not encouraged for the
reservoir area resettlement on the basis on the experience and lessons gained from the
construction area resettlement
Page 45



ID
to
m
e-I
I:rl



Annex   B
Page 47






Table B.l                                                   Phase I (Rural) Resettlement in the XLD Reservoir Area
Year         lititis                                       Toial        Mengjin       Jiyuall City                                Xih'an County                                 Special tells ahove Comty Lcvel
County   Tt,tal  Within the    Outside tile Coulnty
county
Totlal     Mengxian   Yuanyang    Yitoia city
Currctti    Rural            Houscholds                    12260        1508          3451            7291        4(043        3248       1358         224          1666
Status
(Marchl.                    of whicil: witb proepny        726          183            156            387         225          162        60                        1M2
1 993)
prisiuctioi                   4(1442       4S17           12548          23077       12528        10349      4434         825          5280
resetlementlpeople)
livelihood                   40917         4914           12807          23196       12557        I(K629     1453         823          351
rcstl9melentt(peoplel
uowntvltip (ptople/etuterpriscl               1165/15                                    1135123     1165/23      0
Industrics anwd Iiites (po,ple/enmerprivl     13684/234    2218/13        1560/74        9906/141    9t(X6/147    0
ntitute outside iowts (puople/institute)     257/17                      198/14         5/3          58/3        It
large items abovc county lcvel                467/4                                                               0                                                4167/4
(people/voterpsrsetI
rural           hmouseholdds                  12871        1568           3747           7556        4181         3373        1408        233          1734
desigti                   i|f whicil with properfies       726          183            156            387         225          162        60                        1(12
year
production resettlemiit      41940         4997           13012          23931       12991        1()940     4598         856          5486
livinlg resetilement          42425        5095           13277          24053       13030        11023      4618         836          5549
township (peLiple/etmerprie)                  1262/15                                    1165/23     1165/23      0
itdustries aned milnes (people/enterprisel    13684/234    2218/13        1560/74        9906/147   99tK6/147   (S
iltstilute ,tuiside itwits (peiiple/immuiute)  257/17                     199/14         51/3        58/3         0
larfe special iteils above cioulity level lpeople/    4167/4                                                      0                                                4167/4
entterprise)
Note:     TIle people in industrial and itincral enterprises refer to the miumber oif the workers o-nly.
Page 48



Table B.2   Phase I (Rural) Resettlement Directions In the XLD Reservoir Area
Items                                                                                Total       Mengin   Jiyuan                               Xin'an County
County    City
Tiotal    Within    Out of the c'ounty
county       -
Subtot l   Mengxian    Yuanyang   Yima
pnlductitin     population                                                           41940       4997       13012      23931    12991      10940    4598         356          5486
resettlenent                                                                            -
labhr                                                                19315      2395       5654        11336    6506      4830      2031         385         2414
d pt>pulathin                                                        33925      450U        12635      16782    11382     5454      4598         856
Land-based      _______________________________
RgettultureI    ltbir                                                                15523       2166       5460       7897     5481      2416       2031        385
Resettlentent
subtiotal population                                                8015        489        377        7149      1663      5486                               5486
subtotl lahorn                                                      3862        229         194       3439      2025      2414                               2414
dependents transferred from agricultural registrations to nonagricultural  1362  370        129       863       863
ones (people)
Other
Resettlentet    dependents transferred fn,m agricultural registrations to nonagricultural  390   110        55         225      225
Mode            ones (labors)
people finding yobs by themselves                                   84                     84
labors finding jobs by themselves                                   69                     69
peopie living with relatives and friends                             164                   164
labors living with relatives and friends                            70                     70
people transferred from the contractual and temporuy workers to official    919  119                  8t0      8g0
Ones
labois transferrd from contractual and temporairy workers to official ones   919  119                 800       800
induxtrial resentement (pevple)                                     54S6                              5486                5486                               5486
ib dustrial resettlement (lIaxrs)                                   2414                              2414                2414                               2414
Page 49



Table 8.3 Cost Summary ot Measures Planning for Planting Works of XLD Pbae I Resettkment In the Reservoir Area
|   Items                 Total        Mengjin    Jiyuan City                                    Xin'ain
Countly
Total       Within the                   Out of the County
County
Subtotal    Mengxian    Yuanyang    Yima
Land fior     Subtotal                        37705.4     6148         12120.6     19436.8     13524        5912.8      4846.8       916          150
Production
Irrigated land                  17914.7     866         12056.6     4992.1       920         4072.1       3006.1       916         150
Dry Land                        18030       5067        64           12899       12604       295          295
Orchards                        510         215                     295                      295          295
Warped land in Wenmengtan       1132                                 1132                     1132        1132
Fish Pound                      118.7                                118.7                    118.7       118.7
Measures for  Terracing the Slopes            6881        3010                     3871        3871         0
Field Works
Land Preparation               7788.1       1966                    5822.1       2521        33011        3301.1       856         150
Soil hiprovement                12304       2225                     10079       10079       0                         8           3
Total Created Irrigated Area   24283.4      2192        12120.6      9970.8      4118         5852.8      4846.8       856          150
Measures fir
Hydraulic     1. number of Irrigation wells   144         18          62           64          7            57          46
Woirks        Well irrigated Area             16793.4     2192        8041.6       6559.8      707          5852.8      4846.8
2.Numher of smallsized Pumping   19                     17           2           I            l           I
Station_
Irrigated Area                 3130.8                   1671         1459.8      331          1128.8      1128.8
3.Length of Embedded Pipes     230193       39456       109211       81526.5     10605        70921.5     70921.5
4. Duanjiagou Reservwir Project   3080                               3080        3080         0
5. Gravity Irrigation          2408                     2408                                  0
Page 50



Table B.4 Summary of Measures for Surplus Labors of XLD Phase I Resettlement in the Reseroir Area
Toutl           Menjin        Jiyutan City                                           Xin'an
Cntvty
Total       Within ihe                             Out of the Cotunty
County______ __
Subtotal       Mengxian        Yuanyang        Yinia
Ttgal Surplus Lt rs                                              8540            1294          3546          3695         2646            W49            #32             217
cnvtqnicim                                                       13030.5         1996357       4434.2        6599.70W    4401.49          1692.21        1269.52         422.685
Anstual Output Value I I t(XOt yuan I                            20922.3         4362.1       591t4.#2      10575.31     331.79         2244.02        1534.33         709.19
Anumal Net hIIo  me1(1El1l yuatt)                                3621.24         470.7         2030.42       1120.124    955.364          164.74         276.24          53.2
Foreury and   1. Area o-f Apple Orcltard OIIu)                   2900.5          902           1523.5        475         11)             295            295
Orchards        c-ures tt labors (petpicl                        133             6(1(1         1073          160          1 20            40             40
comt O(t111l yualn)                             1323.28         365.37        471.31        43f6.10      23.094          463.00         463.00
altual outptn Value     (t11)(6yutan)           977.96          271.3         571.31         135.35      67.5            67.35          67.35
anttual net incinue (l(lttO yuatt)              630.038         213.41        352.8         63.79        41.69           22.10          22.1
2. Area of Pootqranate (nwt-   110                                                             110         I 1
reeauked lar Ipoale)                            34                                          34           34
Cost tI I(Xtlyuuall                             14.00                                        14.11       14.11
anitual output nale  (1(01110 yuan)             41.25                                       41.25        41.25
anttual tne iti une (M1I(III yuan)              25.476                                      25.4S        25.43
Vgeteable     Area (mu)I                                         2077.5                        1777.5        3(X)         3110
Gri wii in                                                                                                                                   _.
SIwil         Rewlettld labor                                    21W                           I360          3tlO         3(xl
c ,t (t(KKKI yuam)                                1734.75                        141599       246.76       243.76
anutwal output value (1(NX6) yuan)                1460.48                       1249.58       211.9        210.9
aninual ne.'t itteute I HUM61) yuat)              645.96                        7238           122 16      122. 16
Page 51



Aqu.ICur.U    IVcin'clt U-' 1w rAiw.d                                               pig anid       pig and                     chickeni and                     fish             duck aid fish
chickeln      clnickei                    beef
reeilIed labo"rs (plpic)                            394              Si             132            361          314             47              12               35
conq (1I1I8I yujln)                                  1231 44         243            464 9          523 54       334.53           189 01          126 52          62 49
annual u*lpulp sAluC (1I(t8l yuanl)                  1532 52         284.28         719.93         528.31       442 14          86.17           556 98           29.19
alnilual net Income (1088IX yuani)                  403.58           61 66          172.28         169 64       143 06          26.58            IS 38           7.7
VillAge ruII    inuinber                                            47              9              9              29           22               7               4                3
Inldusilry.
ICCrciled labors                                   3370             618            461            2291         1878            413             231               182
cao.i 11(0001 yua'inl                                8727 2          1388           2 12           5327 201     4287             10)40 2        680              360 2
anlilual i>Uipul value 0(IIIIX yuanll                16910 6         3806 6         3444           9664) (81    75711           20190            1410            6801
anIIIual tid income  (Itk81 yujn)                    1716 19         195 63         781.5          739.06       623              116.06         70.56            45.3
Counly runi    iunibHr                                              3                                             3                             3               3
Expaoid_d
Enterpriie    reeIiled labors                                       540                                           549                           549             549
becauwt of
lechoillogy    cost I lOOtlO yuan)                                  274 5                                         274 5(1                       274 50          274 5
razrll       _
aninlual oulpul value I 11(001 yuanll                19067.6                                       19067 60                      19(167 60       19067 6
annual net minciine (10008) yuai)                   164 7                                          164 70                        164.70          164 7
Note: The cost of coumny run enlarged enterprises belongs (o the amount provided by Ihe individuals and is not sulmiiarized.
Page 52



Table B.5   Industries and Mines Treatment Planning for XLD Phase I Resettlement
Administrative Regions    Number of Enterprises   Relocated and        Switched (including            Set Free
Constructed          incorporated)
Total  Industries  Mines Total Indust  Mines Total Industri Mines  Total Industries  Mines
ries                 es
Total                   234    59         175    22    21       1      127             127    85    38         47
Jiyuan City             74      14        60      1            1       44             44      29    14         15
Mengjin County          13    66          7       6     6              7              7
Total in Xin'an         147   33          108    15    15              76             76      56    24         32
1. resettlement within  70     13         57      13    13             47             47      10               10
Xin'an county
2. in Yima city         52      16        36      2     2              26             26      24    14         10
3. in Mengxian county    21     10        11                                                  21    10         11
4. in Yuanyang          4                 4                            3              3       1                1
Page 53



Table B.6   Resettlement Implementation Progress
Water Level  Inundation                            Annually Relocated Population (people)                       Planned
Affected
Population   Construction Area        Phase I                Phase 11                Phase III
.  1992  1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2010   2011
Construction   10118      6730  2812    1032                                                                    10574
Area
Below        24200                                      25026                                                   25026
El1180m
El 180-265m    123619                                   16981  20647  28904  31602  33100                       131234
265-275m     20671                                      870             104             680     11035   12088  24777
Official     7101                                       2639                            3948            514     7101
Workers
Total         185709      6730  2812    1032            45516  20674  29008  31602  37728   11035   12602   198712
Note: The people in the construction area include the outside roads and Liuzhuang railway station affected population (642 persons).
Page 54



Figure B.1 Resettlement Implementation Planning Schedule
.--          T _       ____  __._                            ..i9  1996| 1997 | 't99t 1999  | 20D | 2001   | 20D2 | 2003 | 2004  |tO 20058 I2006 F~i2olou 202 0  2611
| 10  Resettlement by Stage   _-
(1 Dam Sato Resettlement
2  Belo`w t0Bm Reservoir Phase I ResetlWement                       -
3] i8t-265m    Reservoir Phase tl Resettlement
4] 26'i-275m   Reservoir Phase III Resettlemen.



7.    Resettlement Implementation Progress in the Reservoir Area
7.1   Phase I Resettlement Implementation Progress
Phase I resettlement was planned to begin in 1993 and end in 1996, but due to various
reasons, the resettlement planned for 1993 and 1994 was not accomplished. After the
establishment of the YRWHDC RO in 1994, facing the urgent tasks, the RO organized the
staff to make great stride in the resettlement planning and design and simultaneously focused
the efforts on the resettlement of the reservoir area and various resettlement management for
the purpose of " finishing the tasks of four years in two years" to ensure the river closure
in 1997, prepared the Report on the Phase I Resettlement Implementation Planning and
Design in May, 1995 and has organized and unfolded the resettlement implementation under
the circumstance that the design report is not approved by the State.
7.1.1 In accordance with the implementation planning. 42425 rural resettlers will be
resettled in 44 residential sites respectively which have been optimized and combined as 34
sites because the resettlers put forward that the residential sites should be combined or
changed during the implementation due to their deep understanding the resettlement
programs. Of which, 14 sites in Jiyuan receiving 13277 people in its plain area, 2 sites in
Mengjin receiving 5095 people within the county, 18 sites in Xin'an county receiving 24053
people, of which 9 sites (6727 people) are within county, 9 outside the county: one in Yima
receiving 5549 people, one in Yuanyang receiving 856 people, 4 in Mengxian county
receiving 7182 people and 3 in Wenxian county receiving 3739 people. See table 7-1 for
village assignments.
7.1.2 New Villages Construction
7.1.2.1     6000 mu land has been requisited for new residential sites, of which 5953mu
land has been prepared for the purpose of construction.
7.1.2.2     Housing and Relocation
Up to the end of 1996, the houses for 11268 households (about 40000 people) have been
constructed with the floorage of 1011000 IM2 and 9Om2 per household (See table 7-2 for
details), taking up 88% of the plan. The relocatees can construct the houses by themselves
according to their selected one of styles designed by the resettlement offices on the basis of
their properties compensation and savings. The houses for the relocatees moving outside the
county can be constructed in collective way in conformity with the relocatees' opinions and
relocatees' Tepresentatives are selected to take part in supervising house construction to avoid
and reduce the complains. All of the houses are constructed with brick and have higher
quality than before. At present, 16580 people have moved into new houses. There are two
types for relocation: one is to pay the relocation cost to the individual who will move away
in the specified time; the other is to relocate in a collective way, i.e. the county and town
organize the vehicles and people in a unified way to help the relocatees move, generally in
1-2 days.
7.1.2.3     Xiwo Township Construction
Page 56



Since the relocation and construction of new Xiwo site, the following works have been
finished: water supply, 1.95km connection road, 0.62km main road, 2.49km transmission
line and 12kn communication line, 10600m2 houses for township government and its
enterprises and institutes. The other units have already moved expect township middle
schlool and the aged house which are under the construction.
7.1.2.4     Relocation of the Special Items
The special items involved by Phase I resettlement include Henan provincial Fourth Prison,
hydrological station, surveying marks in the reservoir area and cultural relics. The three
items have been relocated except the cultural relics to be moved at the end of June, 1997.
7.1.2.5     Reestablishment of the Infrastructure Surrounding the Reservoir
Xiyu highway with length of 69kn has been constructed and put into operation; the civil
work of Longqu substation has been finished and the transformer has been installed and the
lines are installing now.
7.1.2.6     Phase II Resettlement Progress in Shanxi Reservoir Area
When Phase I resettlemnent in the reservoir area carried out, Phase II resettlement partially
started with focus on Shanxi province. The performance is as follows: 18100mu land for
production has been requisited for rural resettlement (in advance payment): 4 well stations
have been constucted, 720mu irrigated land can be developed and 9 enterprises have been
built, houses for 456 households also constructed and the roads constructed with total length
of 41. lun. The infrastructure such as land requisition, water, power supplies and roads for
new Guchengzheng town site has been basically completed and the houses for town
govermnent have been constructed with area of 16100m2.
7.2   Special Items in Agricultural Development
7.2.1 Wemnengtan River Channel Training and Warping for Soil Improvement
7.2.1.1     Development Objectives
Wemnengtan, located in the north bank of the lower reach of the Yellow River, is within the
Wenxian county and Mengzhou city of Henan province with 1.4mu land per capita. By
taking the advantages of fertile land and convenient irrigation, by training river channel and
warping for soil improvement, the destroy and threaten caused by the Yellow River flood can
be reduced and 80000mu land can be created to receive 50000 people from Xin'an county
and Jiyuan city of Henan province.
7.2.1.2    Implementation Progress
From 1992 when the river channel training started to December of 1996, the completed
works are shown in following table (see next page).
7.2.1.3     Construction and Management
Page 57



Due to its special nature and according to the WB's appraisal comments, this work is in
charge of the Henan Yellow River Training Bureau in force account who forms Wenrengtan
project office which is the construction unit and singed the 'Lump Sum Agreement with
Items                      Designed         Completed         Percent (%)
Quantity         Quantities
Dam (Buttress)             118              63                53
Protection Dike            2150000m3         150000m3l
Land Created by Warping    12540000m3        10620000m3       85
and Filling
Land Created by Soil       640000m3          166m3            25
Improvement
YRWHDCRO in 1995 and its general construction team is responsible for the construction.
Since the construction started, 18 units (1224 people) have moved into the site and 553 sets
of apparatus have been also moved into the site.
7.2.1.4     Cost Estimate
The design institute of Henan Yellow River Training Bureau carried out the supplementary
design on the Wenmengtan project in 1995 which was reviewed by the General Institute of
MWR in the same year. The total cost of this project is fixed as RMB 565 million yuan, of
which, 237 million yuan for river channel training, 328 million yuan for soil improvement.
7.2.1.5     Fund Disbursement
With the project progress, up to December of 1996, the cost of the Project has been actually
disbursed RMB 350 million yuan.
7.2.2 Houhe Reservoir and Irrigation Project
7.2.2.1     Construction Objectives
Houhe reservoir and irrigation district, located in Yuanqu county of Shanxi province, is
focused on irrigation with consideration of supplying drinking water for human and animals
and generating power, includes one arch dam constructed with grouted stone (74.5m high),
46.9km main channel, 76.6km branch channel, 32.6km lateral canal in main channel and one
2' small-sized hydropower station and will provide 15000 relocatees in Guchengzhen town,
Yuanqu county of Shanxi province with irrigated land after the project completion.
7.2.2.2     Tender of Houhe Reservoir Project
December, 1994 -- February, 1995     complete prequalification
March, 1995                         tender documents approved by the WB
Page 58



March, 1995 --- June, 1996         issue the tender documents, open tender and
tender evaluation
September, 1996                     complete bid award, issue letter of acceptance
The tender should be completed in August, 1995 as scheduled and was delayed because
Shanxi water conservancy bureau strongly request that its construction bureau would be the
construction unit of the project, which breaks the fare competitive principle. The
understanding was reached in September, 1996 through many times of consultation between
MWR and YRWHDCRO and Shanxi province so that the tender could be carried out
successfully thereafter.
7.2.2.3     Activities of Dam Safety POE
According to the WB requirements and approved by the WB, the Houhe dam safety POE
(panel of experts) was forned in September, 1994 with members of Tao Yulin, Yu Keli and
Zhao Shen and has placed the focus on the reconnaissance, design, tendering and
construction management of the Houhe reservoir since it established. Its main activities are
as follows:
held POE meeting in September, 1994 to supplement items of reconnaissance and
design;
took part in reviewing optimized design, tendering and tender evaluation work
of the project in February -- June, 1995;
--   attended the technical consulting meeting for Houhe project in 1996
7.2.2.4    Implementation Progress
Up to December, 1996, the following items have been accomplished for Hoube reservoir
project: 3.7km construction road, houses 960m2, 1.038km of 10kv transmission line, water
supply for constucion, a set of communication for construction (32 program controlled
telephones) and 575mu requisited land. Notice to commencement was issued on December
5, 1996. 136 people from Chinese engineering construction bureau No. 11 have moved into
the site and have built 5.3km shortcut for construction and 2000m2 houses by use of 60 sets
of apparatus already moved into the site. The rock excavation of abutments and sand and
gavel plant has started. At present, the project is advancing smoothly and will be finished
in June, 1997.
The supplementary and optimized design for the irrigation district of Houhe project was
finished in October, 1996 by the Yucheng district reconnaissance and design institute and was
reviewed by the General Institute of MWR in December, 1996 and submitted to the SPC and
is planned to start construction in March, 997 and end in June, 1997 with Houhe reservoir.
7.2.2.5     Construction Management
Approved by the Shanxi provincial water conservancy bureau, the Houhe Reservoir Project
Headerquarters has been established as the administration unit bearing the construction
management of the project and signs the contracts with the construction unit and supervision
unit of the project respectively and independently.
Page 59



7.2.2.6         Estimate of the Project: optimized design for Houhe reservoir and the
irrigation project was reviewed by General Water Conservancy Planning Institute in October
1995 and December 1996 respectively and total cost of the project was determined as 111.2
million yuan (RMB).
7.2.2.7     Fund Allocation: 26.6 million yuan has been allocated by December 1996
based to physical progress.
7.2.2.8     Remedy Measures for Project Progress Delay
Due to obstacles in tendering, completion of Houhe reservoir is 1 year behind schedule. the
following measures have been taken to reduce impacts on the resettlement of Shanzxi
province:
a.    The cost planed for Houhe reservoir and the irrigation project will be shared by the
state and Shanxi province. Considering Shanxi is not beneficiary of Xiaolangdi
reservoir, SPC has promised all of cost for Houhe reservoir and most of the cost for
the irrigation project will be provided by the state, which stimulates activity of Shanxi
province in the project construction.
b.    In order to accelerate the construction speed. it is planed to commence the irrigation
project in March 1997 and ensure that the project with its accessory facilities will be
completed simultaneously with Houhe reservoir in June 1999.
C.    Land requisition will be made 1 year in advance to allocate land to the resettlers and
speed up residential site construction to benefit the resettlers at the two sites before
1998.
7.3   Agriculture Rehabilitation
7.3.1 Cultivated Land Allocation: in accordance with the plan, totally 38800 mu cultivated
land are to be allocated to Phase I reservoir area resettlers, of which is 32000 mu irrigated
land. Now 34500 mu land has been allocated (accounting for 89% of the planned), including
26700 mu irrigated land, see table 7-3.
Land allocation is a complicated and miscellaneous task, recently, the following measures
have been taken:
a.    Conducting propaganda to make the resettlement policies clear to the resettlers;
b.    Determining land allocation scheme. Such principles are followed: land is allocated
to inhabitant groups in square and part; land of good quality is allocated together with
that of worse quality; land is allocated to resettlers on basis of where they live.
c.    Measuring land based on the determined scheme and piling and determnining
boundaries;
Page 60



d.    Clearing up what adheres to the ground: mainly miscellaneous trees and tombs;
e.    Resettlement villages sign agreement with the host village to transfer the land;
f.    Contracting cultivated land to the household, in some cases, land is cultivated by the
persons organized by the village before move of resettlers.
g.    Drawing maps, draw boundaries in topographic maps with scale of 1:2000.
h.    Perfecting land allocation procedures and setting up files;
In general. land division between villages is the determined by township, that between
groups is by villages, that between households is by groups.
7.3.2 Allocation of Remaining Land of the Host Area: amount of remaining land per capita
in the host area is generally higher than that of land required by resettlers per capita, and it
is the principle followed when planning is made, because land is allocated in parts, the
remaining land need to be allocated again inside the host villages, 7.3.1 gives the description
of the allocation methods.
7.3.3 Improvement of Land Allocated: land allocated to the resettlers in Jiyuan and
Yuanyang used to be irrigated land of the local inhabitants, and water conservancy facilities
are basically complete with few needs of rehabilitation and repairing to the field works. At
present, 30 wells have been transferred to the resettlers, a crop of wheat and a crop rice have
been harvested. In Yuanyang county more than 100 sets of agricultural machineries and tools
have been purchased for the resettlers, assistance has been offered to the resettlers in
purchasing chemical fertilizer, farm chemical and seeds. In Mengxian and Wenxian. 13223.7
mu land has been transferred to the resettlers. 2740 mu of the land (accounting for 20%)
need to be warped and improved, which is included in the program of Wenmengtan warping
and soil improvement project, and is planned to develop into irrigated land. In Xin'an and
Mengjin county, the land allocated to the resetters is mostly dry land demanding water
conservancy development. It is planned to develop irrigated land of 3080 mu, which mainly
depends on rehabilitation of Duanjiawan reservoir. The reservoir was constructed in 1950's
with the designed irrigated area of 62400 mu. The rehabilitation began on October 1996, and
will be completed in 1997. Land preparation of 1000 mu have finished, 4 pumped wells been
dug (2 in Zhouli and 2 in Qinghe), and 2000 mu land can be developed into irrigated land.
Financed by the provincial agriculture and husbandry department, spray irrigation for 400
mu land has been developed in Qinghe village now the test has been successful.
7.3.4 Agriculture and sideline activities: family farm, grain processing, commerce and
transportation, as main resource of family incomes, they may be operated again after
resettlement.
7.3.5 Township enterprises: based on the experience and lessons from industrial
resettlement in the dam area, resettlement is planned with few considerations of resettlement
in county run industries. But actually, some resettlers have become workers when the
industries enrolled new workers. Now development of resettlement industries have almost
centered in township enterprises. 28 township enterprises have been initiated (7 in Jiyuan,
Page 61



12 in Mengjin, 5 in Xin'an county and 4 in Yima city. see details in table7-4.
As for rehabilitation of agriculture, YRWHDC RO together with RS offices at provincial,
municipal and county level strengthen training to village leaders and resettlers and help each
resettlement village formulate agricultural development plan to improve their living
conditions.
7.4   Rehabilitation of Non-agricultural Activities
7.4.1 Resettlement of Industries and Mines.
7.4.1.1         Existing conditions of the industries and mines affected by the reservoir
inundation: totally there are 787 industries and mines with total fixed assess of 905.69
million yuan, of which 247 are industries(accounting for 31 %) and 540 mines(Accounting
for 69%). There are 54499 workers and staff, of which 14948 are non-agricultural, the rest
are agricultural, 39019 persons from inside the reservoir area, 10532 from outside the
reservoir area. 13 of 787 industries and mines are state-owned enterprises with fixed asset
of 182.2 million yuan,(accounting for 20.1 %) 505 collective enterprises with fixed asset of
650.05 million yuan(accounting for 72.1%), 269 personal enterprises with fixed asset of
70.64 million yuan (accounting for 7.8%).
7.4.1.2 Management of Resettlement of Industries and Mines: YRWHDC RO has
established a leading group consisting of 3 persons to perform guidance and control over
resettlement of industry and mines, formnulated Management Rules on Changing Production
Lines and Reconstruction of Industries and Mines, including determination of compensation
criteria for mines and industries, approval procedures of reconstructed enterprises,
resettlement of industrial population, follow-up monitoring survey to enterprises that have
changed production lines or reconstructed.
7.4.1.3      Plans for Changing Production Lines or Enterprise Reconstruction: according
to the project progress and operation characteristics, production line changes and enterprise
reconstruction may be implemented in two stages: there are 234 industries and mines affected
by inundation during the first stage (El.180). In conformity with the characteristics and
existing conditions and based on market survey and forecasting, it is agreed that 13
enterprises will be moved and reconstructed, 157 enterprises will change their production
lines or be combined, 65 enterprises will be canceled. During the second stage(El.180m-
250m) , totally there are 553 industries and mines affected, the plan will be accomplished
in June 1997.
7.4.1.4      Progress: base on the plan in the first stage, 28 enterprises will be
reconstructed, 7 in Jiyuan, 12 in Mengjin, 4 in Yima city and 5 in Yima, and by December
of 1996, 12 of them had been completed (50%), 13 of them are under construction(46%) and
1 is in preparation stage(3%), with the total input of 116.76 million yuan(RMB).
7.4.2 Resettlement of Staff and Workers: Phase I reservoir area resettlement involved 13049
workers and staff in enterprises, of which 815 persons were non-agricultural and 12234
persons are agricultural, 8820 were from inside reservoir area and 3414 outside reservoir
area. After move of the mines and industries, 815 non agricultural people were all resettled
Page 62



in the new enterprises, most of them were temporary workers who were resettled based on
actual conditions: a. only some of the 3414 persons were from outside the reservoir area,
who had special skills may remain in the reconstructed enterprises, the rest may return their
homes and find new jobs or be engaged in agriculture; b. 8220 persons from inside the
reservoir area may be employed or arranged again with the resettlement of the enterprises
and construction of new residential sites. Those who lived nearer to the enterprises had
priority to be employed, the others who lived further may be employed in local enterprises
or be engaged in agriculture.
7.4.3 Industrial Resettlement of Kuangkou village in Yima city: there used to be 54
enterprises in the village with the compensation fund of 52 million. Altogether there were
3471 workers and staff who were all agricultural, 1/2 of them were from outside the
reservoir area, they took part time jobs in the villiage, resettlement in Yima city has to
Altogether 1500 persons had to be resettled in Yima city. Based on the municipal economic
development plan, a cement product factory and a electromagnetic line factory have been
set up with total investment of 12.50 million yuan (RMB), employment of 171 persons.
Thermal plant and medicine factory are under construction with investment of 245 million
yuan and employment opportunities for 1000 persons. 300 persons may be employed in the
service. The existing problem is inadequacy of funds, to solve the problem, Yima municipal
governmemnt has made great efforts, they have incorporated the resettlement industries into
the municipal development plan. As for fund raising, they have applied for loan proceeds of
60 million from the agricultural bank of China beside 40 million yuan of compensation fund
for resettlement, applies for issuing construction bond of 20 million yuan (approved by SPC),
10 million yuan were raised by collecting money from the resettlers who are employed in
industries, 30 million yuan are provided by construction units and equipment factories, which
will be returned in 1=2 years after completion of the industries. Henan provincial power
bureau, as counterpart supporting agency, has provided the following preferential policies to
construction of the thenal plant: a. exempting from counterpart funds of 75 million-100
million yuan; b. promising to incorporate the plant into the great net; c. the plant is permitted
to operate at full load; d. preferential electrical tariff after the plant is put into effect. At
present continuous efforts have been made to settle fund inadequacy.
7.4.4 Measures for Abolished Personal Mines: 64 of the 234 mines and industries in Phase
I resetlement were canceled, of which most are personal mines. Guidance and assistance
have been offered to then in taking advantage of the local resources to set new enterprises
or investing in farm water conservancy facilities as well as in agriculture and sideline
activities.
7.5   Efforts in Income Rebabiltation in Host VDllages
Land allocation in the host area will result in reduction of the incomes, but they make use
of the compensation funds to improve production conditions, resume and raise the incomes.
For example, in Jiyuan city, Beishuitun village where Lujialing village resettled have attained
compensation fund of 1.7 million for resettlement land allocation of 254 mu. They have used
the funds to harden the roads with cement,  paired electric lines inside and outside the
village, installed a transformer to raise irrigation guarantee rate, and they have set up
Changhong Glass Product Factory, which began to put into operation partly in May 1996 and
annual production value may reach 5 million yuan after completion, another example is
Page 63



Matou village where Liuzhuang village resettled, 2.3 million yuan compensation fund
have been paid for 380 mu of land allocated to the resettlers, with which they have
bought 4 agriculture-use trucks, 4 small-size combined harvesters, repaired 3.4 km long
roads, constructed I km long irrigation canal, repaired original drains and dug 6 pumped
wells. Resulted from improvement of irrigation, paddy can be grown on land where
people used to only grow maize because of water shortage. In addition, I million yuan
are supposed to put in initiating a carbon rod factory, now, preliminary feasibility study
is being undertaken. Other host areas have taken the same measures to rehabilitate
incomes.
7.6   Procurement and Fund Allocation
7.6.1 The cost of XLD resettlement project was estimated as RMB 2405.79 million
yuan at 1993 price, of which, 79,900,000 SDR (equivalent RMB 110,000,000 yuan)
from foreign fund (see Credit Agreement 26.5-OCHA). Due to physical items increase
resulted from the physical indices recheck in the reservoir area in 1994, price difference
increase and design changes, the cost was reviewed and estimated as RMB 6436 million
yuan in 1995 and prereviewed by the MWR and will be finalized by the SPC in written
way.
7.6.2 Adjustment during Implementation
When the IDA supervision mission for XLD resettlement project visited Zhengzhou in
the last ten days of October, 1994, YRWHDCRO indicated that in item (b) Others of
Category (2) in the Credit Agreement, the construction materials would be difficult in
collective procurement and not convenient in operation which would cause the additional
cost and delay in works' completion and asked for the SPC to change the procurement
method and re-allocate the credit amnount for categories (2)(b) Others and (1)(a) Houses
construction according to the item (19) requirements of the IDA supervision mission
Memo in December, 1995. Mr. Joseph Goldberg, director of the agricultural division of
the China and Mongolia Department wrote a letter to Mr. Jin Liqun, one director of SPC
and expressed that it was agreed to allocate 23,860,000 SDR from category (2)(b) to
category (1)(a) (houses construction). The credit allocation adjustrnent is shown in the
following:
--- category (1) Works: (a) house construction  41,650,000 SDR
--- category (2)Goods: (b) others                6,410,000 SDR
See table 7-5 for details of revised credit allocation.
7.6.3 The withdrawal of the credit fund is carried out according to the adjusted credit
fund allocation table. The annual withdrawal is stated as follows: USD6.545 million in
1994, USD20.598 million in 1995, USD19.543 million in 1996. Up to the end of 1996,
the total withdrawn credit fund is USD46.686 million, RMB387.49 million yuan in
Page 64



equivalent, taking up 42.44% of the total credit. See table 7-6 for details.
7.6.4 The plan of the local fund is stated as follows: RMB 33 million yuan for 1992,
RMB 100 million yuan forl993, 250 million yuan for 1994, 710 million yuan for 1995,
828 million yuan for 1996; 1921 million yuan in total.
The total fund of local and credit is 2308.49 million yuan. Up to the end of 1996,
1467.33 million yuan has been allocated to Henan province, 16.83 million yuan for the
large special items above county, 213.82 million yuan to Shanxi province, 404.20 million
yuan to Wenmengtan, 26.6 million yuan for Houhe project, 129.72 million yuan for the
contract payment and other expenses of YRWHDCRO. The total completed fund is
2258.50 million yuan. See table 7-7 for details.
7.7   Evaluation on Resettlement Progress
7.7.1 Xin'an County. There are 24053 people in Xin'an involved during Phase I
resettlement in the reservoir area, of which 6727 people resettled in 8 villages within the
county, new houses for 2048 people have been constructed, taking up 94% of the total
to be constructed, 6375.2 mu land (102% of the plan) has been occupied, the
infrstructure such as water supply, power supply and roads has been completed. Up to
the end of 1996, 3250 relocatees have moved, accounting for 48% of the total within the
county; the houses and corresponding infrastructure for 5549 people moving to Yima
have been constructed, cement products plant and electromagnetic wire factory newly
built for the relocatees have been put into operation, the thermal plant with capacity of
2x25000 kw and pharmaceutical factory have started to construct; 7182 people to move
outside the county to Mengzhou city are settled in 4 sites, the houses for 1895 households
have been constructed, taking up 85 % of the total, the construction of the infrastructure
such as water supply, power supply and roads has been completed, 8651 mu land (105%
of the plan) has been adjusted and allocated, 2674 people have moved into new houses;
3739 people to move outside the county to Wenxian county are resettled in 3 villages,
houses for 569 households have been constructed, taking up 48% of the total, the water
supply, power supply and roads have been constructed partially., 1713mu farmland has
been adjusted and allocated, taking up 35% of the plan; for 856 people moving to
Yuangyang county, the houses for 245 households have been constructed, accounting for
105% of the plan and the infrastructure has been constructed accordingly, 1198mu land
has been allocated, taking up 131% of the plan, 905 people have moved into the new
houses, taking up 106% of the plan. See the table of mral resettlement implementation
progress for details.
From above, the overall resettlement progress of Xin'an county meets the requirement
of river closure in 1997. The measures for production and livelihood resettlement have
been carried out. However, the resettlement in Mengzhou advanced slightly slow because
these villages were planned to resettle within the county and whose people asked for to
move in Wenmengtan in 1996, therefore, the resettlement program had to be adjusted.
Page 65



The local resettlement agency and the relocatees have decided that the relocation must
be accomplished before June, 1997 to ensure the river closure as scheduled.
7.7.2 Jiyuan city: 13277 people in Yiyuan involved in the Phase I resettlement of the
reservoir area are to be resettled in 14 sites. 3326 households have constructed new
houses, accounting for 90% of the plan, the water supply, power supply and roads have
been mostly constructed, 1193 mu land has been allocated, taking up 92% of the plan,
6419 people have moved, taking up 48% of the plan. See the table of rural resettlement
implementation for details. The Phase I resettlement is carried out in the plain area near
to the suburbs of Jiyuan and the allocated land is irrigated land and the measures of
production and livelihood resettlement have been performed to ensure that Phase I
resettlement will be ended before June, 1997.
7.7.3 Mengjin county: 5095 people involved in the Phase I resettlement in the reservoir
area are resettled in two sites. The houses for 1415 households have been constructed,
taking up 90% of the plan, the water supply, power supply and roads have been basically
constructed, 5336mu land has been allocated, taking up 87% of the plan, 3332 people
have been moved, accounting for 65.4% of the plan. See the table of rural resettlement
implementation progress for details. Mengjin county resettlement proceeds as scheduled
and can ensure that Phase I resettlement in Jiyuan can be finished before the end of June,
1997.
7.7.4 Host area: The host areas are selected on the basis of the consultation between the
local governments of relocatees and host residents and the agreements signed by the
resettled and host villages. The host residents are willing to receive the resettlers and
allocate land to them for building houses and farning and provide necessities for
production and living and according to the national policies, can obtain the land
compensation to develop the agricultural production and village run enterprises so as to
improve and increase the economic earnings.
7.7.5 Existing Problems
A.   The delay in the resettlement implementation planning and design is one problem
for XLD resettlement project. According to the requirements, the Phase I resettlement
in the reservoir area below E1180m should be finished in 1993, but was not completed
until May, 1996 due to various reasons. In order to ensure river closure in 1997, such
measure is taken as simutaneouly working out and carrying out the planning and design
so as to make the project advance. Because the cost estimate is not finalized, the cost is
changeable, So the money payable to the relocatees can not be paid totally. With the
support of the local resettlement agencies, a lot of efforts have been done to overcome
the difficulties.
B.    The agricultural development should closely follow with the relocation. The
residential sites must be constructed before relocation and the farmland capital
Page 66



construction must be carried out due to bad quality and small quantity of the land
obtained by the relocatees to improve the agricultural production benefits. Some village
have not done enough work hereon.
C.   The problem that few special poor families has insufficient money to construct
new houses needs to solve timely. After their compensation cost and money to be added
are checked, these families, about 5% of the relocatees, can be resettled specially and
reasonably.
7.8 Next Plan for the Resettlement
7.8.1 Phase I Resettlement: The resettlement cost reviewed by the MWR has been
disbursed, therefore, the construction and relocation of all the houses and supplementary
facilities are planned to complete at the end of June, 1997 and the river clearance should
be done to ensure river closure.
7.8.2 Resettlement Planning Between E1180 - 265m in the Reservoir Area: The
implementation planning for 8 counties in the reservoir area is to be finished at the end
of April, 1997, will be submitted to MWR and SPC after summary and consultant by
the end of June, 1997 and will be reviewed and approved in second half of 1997.
7.8.3 Resettlement hmplementation Between El. 265 - 275m: The resettlement cost in
1997 is 974 million yuan to complete the houses construction, land allocation and
complement facilities construction for 30000 people, of which 20000 people in Henan
(6000 people in Xin'an, Jiyuan, Mianchi counties respectively, 2000 people in Mengjin)
and 10000 people in Shanxi province. In addition, the new sites for Dayu, Cangtou,
Nancun, Guchengzhen towns are to be constructed, the industies and mines are to be
relocated and constructed or switched to other production and the special items such as
road and power supply are to be reestablished.
7.8.4 Wemnengtan Work: The cost of it is RMB73 million yuan in 1997 to complete
the river channel training, 27 dams (buttresses) construction, 988800m3 filling volume
in protection dike, 2380000m3 filling volume, 2500000m3 warping volume.
7.8.5 Houhe Project: The cost is RMB 36 million yuan in 1997 to finish the concrete
placement 7800m3, grouted stone 30000m3 and rock excavation 33000m3 for the dam to
make the dam reach El.670mn. The irrigation district has started to construct fully. The
first 7.98km of the artery channel are to be reestablished in 1997, all of the east main
channel, 15.4km long, is to be restored, the main buildings in the west main channel are
to be constructed, i.e. 17 tunnels, 4 aqueducts and 2 inverted siphons.
Page 67



Table 7-1                     Resettlement Locations of Rural Resettlers
Sainte of         Moving                  Locatuon of host aTas              Nos of       Schedusled    lhe nsmple,ncanuion
Vilages                                                                      host         progress     progress
to tisove                                                                     areas
house-      population      township          vildbe                                     Houscholds   Population
t,olds
Total         122601      409171                                              34                        11268        39631
12871       42425
In Jiyuan    3461/3747    12807/          5 townshiDs                         14                        3362         12432
city                      13277
Luoyu        204f222      80318333        Sill              Fatis             i           ftmsh in     222           833
1935-1996
Niuwau       70/75        335/347         Sili              Beiy_ao           I           ditto         75           347
Shiniu        1331142     4961514         rianti office                       I           ditto         130          471
Clhang        3721414      1509/1565      ZhichenS          Dayi              1           ditr          414          1565
quan
Zhang         202/216     7731300         ditto             Zhsongzhang       1           dito          216          D00
ling
Liang'an      360/386      1357/1407      ditto             Zhongwang         I           dito          377          1374
Luulin#      216/235      8151144         Yiaqiao           Shuiun            I           dito         235           844
Liuzhang     210/226      8353/65         dito              Matou             I           ditto         105          402
Jiaodui       30S/334      1207/1250      Ziichidng         Guozhuat          I           dito          315          1179
Zhuyu        263/283      97011006        Yiaqtao           DonUuolu          I           dirto         283          1006
Baigou       258/283      987/1025        dito              Miaodian          I           ditto         283          1025
Guayang       491/538      1 89/1960       Lilin             Lilin            I            finish in    537          1956
1996-1997
Dajiao        171/H18     6731697         dino              Quzlsong          I           dino          170          630
beizt         2031205      158/164        Ysaqiao           Beizi             I            finish in
1997
In Menglit    1508/1568    4916/5095                                          2                         1415         4603
county                                    __  _  __  _ _
Qinghe        390/404      120011244       Shongzhuang      Futu B;ttng    l I             finish in    341          1050
Dongshamtou                   1995-1936
Zvouli        1118/1164    3714/3S51       Pingle           Shangyiu          I            finish in    1074         3553
Hosymg                        1995-1996
Shangiun Ten an
Page 68



Table 7-2 PROGRESS OF PHASE II RURAL RESETTrLEHfcHi2lJKMFTlON
Unit                     Resetted population               Land for residential       Sue preparatt                                   Houses (households. m )
Planied Nos          Moved                    Planned   Completed   Planned   Co<mplcted               Total            Under construction      Completed
Persons   Households   Persons   (mu)        (mu)         (mu)       (mu)         Households   area         Households   area        Households   area
Househo
Ids
Total        12171      4Z425     447N           16510     5136.2    6178.8        5136.2   5953           1126X         1010561    184            159655    9464           8509e6
liYuan      3747        13277      1555          6419      1674.3    2064.5        1674.3   2009.8         3362          304499      321           31704      3041          272795
Mengjin      1568       5095      951           3332       783        786          783       663           1415          141993     41             3445       1374          138548
Xin an      2187       6727       925           3250       970.2      1403        9702       1383.9       2048           181707     440            41000      1608          140707
Yinu        1734        5549      0             0          270.1     270.1        271.1      270.1         1734          147100     0              0          1734          147M)
Mengzhou   2221         71K2      802           2674       887        1003.2      837        1003.2       1895           168039     623            52621      1272          115418
Wenxian      11NI       3739      0             0          448.6     492          44836      492          569           45783        379           30885      190           14898
Yuanyans    223    #     56       245           905        103    1 40             103       131          245           21540                                245            21540
Page 69



Water supply (Nos. m')             Power supply (km. Nos)                        Roads outside village  Cultivated land
allocated
Puniped wells            Ponds (water tower    High voltage lines     Transformer             Planned   Completed   Planned   Completed
Pla:ined    Comipleted   planned    Completed   planned   Completed    Planned   Completed   (kni)     (km)         (mu)       (mu)
49          36          2505.4    3118          126.U4    97.05       63        45            85.204    65.06       38780.5   34466.7
20          14          855        170         38.48      13.81       21         12           32.47     18.68        12120.6   11193.1
7           5           319        750         21.8       17.3        9         5             20.05     17.5         6148      5336
9           8           405        1500        35.7      39.3         13        14            14.91     14.5        6222.2    6375.2
3           l           222        250         4.73      3            4         3.084         1.5       150
h6          4384       310         12.57     14.35        _1        7            J155      4.98         8364.1    8651
3           l           224        78          11.46     5.46         5         2             5.59      2.35        4959.6    1713
l           l           52        60           2.1       2.1          l         l            3.55      5.55         916        1198.4
Page 70



Table 7-3 Labours and Iand Allocation of Phase I Resettlement
ResKdetial Place             Nos of Resenlers and Labours       Allocagion of           Impted Land
Cultivated Land
County   Namne of         Name of Host   Planned                 Labours    Planned    Completed    Planned   Complet
City    Villages to be    Aras                                            (mu)       (mu)         (mu)       ed (mu)
resenletl                       House-      Persons
holds
Total                                     12871       42425      19348      38780.5   34466 7       31765.5   26653.7
Jiyuan                                   3747         13277      6055       12120.6   11193.1       12120.6   11193.1
Liangan         Zlongwang       386          1407      642         1290      992.9        1290       992.9
Zhuyu           Dongguolu       2F3          1006      459        S82        759.7        882        759.7
Luoyu           Fansi           222          833       380        865        904.1        865        904.1
Niuwan          Deiyao          75           347       158        329        240.3        329        240.3
Changun         Dayi            414          1565      714         1662      1514         1662       1514
Zbhngling       Zhongzhuang    216           800       365        780        608          780        608
Lzmang          Marou           226          865       394        797        897.2        797        897.2
Lu1-u1ing       Shumun          235          844       385        681        596.9        681        596.9
imodni          Guozhumg        334          1250      570         1172       1109.8       1172      1109.8
= Guanyang     LWin             538          1960      894         1647       1656.8      1647       1656.8
Beigou          Miodamn         283          1025      467        944        930.3        944        930.3
Shiniu          Bciwangzluan   142           514       234        419.6      410.2        419.6      410.2
_     _______         S              ______
Dajio           Qudoag         1I8           697       318        652        556.2        652        556.2
Bcizi          205          164        75                    16.7                    16.7
Mengjin                                   1568        5095       2324       6148       5336         2192       2187
E Zbeuli          Pingle          1164         3851       1757       4775       4100         1518      824
Qmuhe           Suzhuang    404              1244      567         1373       1236        674        363
Xin'n                                     2187        6727       3068       6222.2    6375.2        3223.2    2906.2
Dazlang         Wangaluang    384            1284      586         1235       1449        553        540
Yiandong        Kechang         488          1170      534         1053       1070         533       540
Magou           Wanp Bug        311          1022      466         1042       1217        508        6225
Page 71



Table 7-3         Labour and Allocation of Cultivated land
Residential Place                           Nos of Resettlers and Labours   Land Allocation          Irngated Land
County.    Name of the       Name of        Planned               Labours   Planned    Completed    Planned    Completed
city        Village to be    Host Area                                      Imu)       (mu)                     (mu)
Resettled                       House-    Persons
holds
Huangpo          Qingshiling    191        683       311        961        971           170       0
Huilin          Gaoping         218        738       337        672        492           260        135
Longqu          Zhangli         297        922       420        926 2      926 2         926 2     926.2
Tadi             Houyu          91         289        132       333        250           273       0
Comprehensiv    Wangzhuang   207           619       282
c resetlement
Yim;                                        1737       5549       2531       150       0             150        0
Kuangkou         Yim;           1735       5549      2531        150       0             150        0
Mengxian                                                                             I
Xiwo             Xipo           1098       3547       1617      3718       4400          3718      4400
Beichun          Chemitry       310        1071      488         1128.8    1282          1128.8    1281
factory
Yianxi          Chemitry        718        2223       1014      2964       2520          2964      2520
factory                                                 I
Tadi             Chemitry       95         341        156       453 3      450           453.3      450
factory
Wengxian                                    1181       3739       1705      4959.6    1713           4959.6    1678
Yiandong         Xiangyun       392        1300       593        1713      1713          1713       1678
Hexi             Zhaoxian       530        1602       730       2135.9    0              2135 9    0
_ongqu           Xiangyun       249        837       382        11007    0               1110.7    0
Yuanytng                                    233        856        390       916         1198.4       856        10384
Huangpo          Xinyang        233       !856        390       916        1198.4        856        1038.4
Page 72



Table 74 Newly-built Enterprises for Phase II Resettlement and the Implementation Progress
City (couny)    Township where    Name of Etenrrert                             Implementation            Completed inputin 10.000
emapnfS is                                                       Siuaion                 ylun)
Jiyun cIty                        (Totlly 7)                                                    .
Dayu              I.Farm of Dayu Xr.                            Put into operation       S0
2.Qubng piaic film factory                    Put ifw operaion         200
3 .10000 ton tye a coke projec                Under conuucfion         320
4.Galodscs faunty                             Under constrlction       200
Xi"yie            5.Xinfeng coal mrm                            Under constrution        ISo
Slaoyusn          6.No. I pit in Shaoyuan coal mnue             Put ino operion          45
7_Rec_otuarcion of Shaoya cokig factory      In prapamion stae        tOO
Mengjin                           Totally 12
county
Original Wuyi     I.Special me facory                           Under consetuct          3000
coal mine
2.Fumiture factry                             Under consgruction
3.Arlar (orging facty                         Under coomuction
4.Mgtaol facory                               Complted
S.Forgng pns fatory                           Compbeed
6.Phosphoe fenilizer fctory                   CopMed
7.Fuimi  forging ary                          Compked
Mciyao            3.Hydrmlic preame auiopment factory           Put ikwo operaton         200
9.Bearing accenry fatory                      Under centiucion
I.Qinghe coatere al foundry                   Put inmo option
II .Qaghe prefabrication feony                Put int operaion
_________    ___________    12.*oui villae hydrrauic p          factory      Undr   tion
Xin-an                            Totlly 5.
eoumy                ___
Wiwo              I .Cleical fory                               Put imo opemIn            120
2.Xiro  in  cank er at factry                 Umder comactio           60
3.Maou villgte fining ukn.                    Under corucition         91
Changloti         4.Chu*ou Xiuig maag mn f aDcry                Compltd                   380
5.Deqi ville chmicl faetory                   Put knu pilot opatdo     67
Yirta cay                         4 in otal                                                               1S5
I.Caemt product factory                       Put ito opemion         570
2.Elctmmagnedic powe factory                  Put into tieaion         4664
3.Thermal pln                                 Unde cotnncunon         3XI0
4.MetltJc   factiry                           Under coturucion         10735
Page 73



Table 7-5                   Adjustment of Credit Amount Allocation
(up to December 31, 1996)
Categories        Credit Allocation in  Adjusted Credit  Credit Expenditures
Credit Agreement   Allocation on Feb.  Percent (%)
(SDR)             17, 1995 (SDR)
1. Works
(a)House          17,790,000        41,650,000        unchanged
construction
(b) Others        19,600,000        190,600,000       unchanged
2. Goods                                              unchanged
(a) Vehicles      2,190,000         2,190,000         unchanged
(b) Others        30,270,000        6,410,000         unchanged
3. Consulting     2,480,000         2,480,000         unchanged
4. Training       730,000           730,000           unchanged
5. Environmnental   800,000         800,000           unchanged
Management
6. Unallocated    6,040,000         6,040,000
Total       79,900,000        79,900,000
Page 74



Table 7-6               Credit Agreement Performance
(up to December 31, 1996)
Category  Name                Credit Amount        Withdrawn     Completed
SDR       Equivalent    (USD)         (¶M)
USD
I         Works       61,250,000.00  84,370,000.00   44,119,310.42  52.29
(a)       House       41,650,000.00   57,370,000.00  30,029,306.87  52.34
construction
(b)       Oters        19,600,000.00  27,000,000.00   14,090,003.55  52.19
2         Goods        8,600,000.00    11,830,000.00  664,232.36    5.61
(a)       Vehicles    2,190,000.00    3,000,000.00   381,389.30  12.71
(b)       Others      6,410,000.00    8,830,000.00   282,843.06  3.20
3         Consulting    2,480,000.00    3,400,000.00    1,741.740.77   51.23
4         Training     730,000.00    1,100,000.00   28,097.64    2.81
5         Environment  800,000.00    1,100,000.00    132,386.69  12.04
a]
Management
6         Unallocated   6,o40,000.00   8,300,000.00
Total                  79,900,000.00   110,000,000.0  46,685,767.85  42.44
0
Page 75



Table 7-7                     Funds Allocation for the Reservoir Area
______                             .___________                             __________                                                           as of: Dec31  1996           lO,OOOyuan
Planned by   Fm.ign Fund              ISen                      Shanxi                Wennmnga                   HInde   _        -a   Special Physica      Oe Fnito,es                         Tnhnl                          C-nd Tml_
Yew         YRHXlDCRO           S        Sulbw      Local   Foegn  Subolal  Loc   Forep  Soblal  Local Foeipn  Subwola  Locul  oenign lens Above  Indices |Subsl Staup and  Odwn   Subloll Local Fund  Foreign Fund  Subtotsl  Local   Foeign
I     Fund     Fund             Fund    Fo nd            dai    P ond              Fon   uPid  County Loel Recheck              Oved=ead                                                          Fund     Fund
1992               3.300                              2.63S                     662                                                                                                                 3.300      3.300                   3,300    3.300
1993         ~~~10,000                           1921.515                                                                                                  38                                                                     1  000 1,0  3.300   13,300
Toul I2-1993            13,30D             _              10,50    _                2,177                                                                                                                13,30      1,300
1994              25,000      6545.007               2000                      2.203                   2380                        160                                  252         207       45   23.000     25,000                  38.300   38,300
_______ 54,323.559  I_____
995               71,00      20191,107    646000     51,300  12,500    4,600   3.600   2000  201,10  14,010   61300                300                 300             1,290      1.030      260   91,300 7   S,000 e0.300  129.6t0  s09,300   20,300
170.964.281                    IIIa,1                                                                                                                                                                          
1996              82,800     19,542,654    52,150    46,400   5.750   12,400   9,700   2,700  17.230  12,230   5,000     2.200   2,200   _1,00                        11,270        713   10.487   96.250     82,800          13.4S0  225,850  192,100   33,750
162.204.026                                                                                                         ____
TODI 192-1996         192,100     46,t65,768   146.733    128S4S3  13.250   21,383  17,683   3.700  40.420 28,620   1.5W00    2.660   2,660                1300      383   12,972       2.10   10.792  225.850    192.100         40.750
387.491,873



8.    Revision and Approval of the Resettlement Cost Estimates
8.1   Revised Compensation Standard
The compensation standard followed by the MWR is based on the Land Management Law which
involves ownership right, use right of the land, land development and utilization, land protection,
management of the land used by the national and local govermnents and the legal assignments
for performing this law. The Regulations on the Land Requisition and Resettlement for the Large
and Medium Sized Hydropower Projects, as complementary of the Land Management Law, is
considered as the main basis of defining the standard by MWR who has decided to estimate the
public property and private property respectively in order to fix the compensation money for
inundated items.
A series of economic systen reform has been carried out in China since the project evaluation
started in 1994 and the socialist market economic system has been gradually established. For the
purpose of protecting the rights and interests of the inundated people and the relocatees' private
properties, the compensated items and compensation standard have been revised and
supplemented and improved since the technic construction design (started in 1995) on the basis
of new policies, laws and regulations and market conditions.
-     land compensation: the payment of land compensation cost only presents the transfer of
the land use right not the loss of the land ownership. Land compensation includes two parts: land
compensation mnoney and resettlement allowance which are calculated according to the annual
average output value in the latest three years before land occupation. The output value is the
total output value of the agricultural products calculated at the market price. In the light of the
national land law, the land compensation money is 3- 4 times of the annual average output value
and allowance is counted according to the land per capita and is 2 - 3 times of the annual output
value, the comprehensive compensation standard is 5 - 7 times of the annual output value. In the
special case, if the land per capita is more than I mu in villages, the comprehensive standard
does not exceed the 8 times; if the land per capita between 0.5 - I mu, the standard not exceed
12 times; if the land per capita less than 0.5 mu, the standard not surpass 20 times. In the
technic construction design, taking the administrative village as one unit, the compensation
standard of XLD Resettlement Project is decided in line with the Regulations on the Land
Requisition and Resettlement for the Large and Medium Sized Hydropower Projects, land per
capita before reseltlement, change in net income per capita before and after resettlement. The
submitted and reviewed land comnpensation for relocatees below El. 180m is fixed as 5.02 - 9.9
times and are to be finalized by the SPC. The compensation cost is paid to the towns and
villages receiving resettlers not to the resettled towns and villages so as to restore the resettlers'
production measures and make up the production and livelihood losses and impacts of the host
area caused by allocating land to the resettlers. The production measures and investment should
be suitable to the local actual conditions to ensure the compensation cost to play an effective
role.
compensation for houses and caves: the price of compensation for the houses and caves
Page 77



directly impacts the reestablishment of the relocatees' livelihood and production. The
compensation should be calculated in typical design according to the structures and styles of the
houses and dwelling caves and on the basis of the estimated norm for construction and erection
works and all material prices are based on the market prices at the end of 1994 respectively.
unit price for infrastructure: the unit prices of the resettlement-related roads (highway,
street, etc.), power, communication, broadcasting and water supply facilities for human and
animals are fixed in specific design for every item or in typical design respectively.
----   compensation standard for industries and mines: the compensation for production facilities
is based on the replacement value (at the price of the end of 1994) and the wear degree;
compensation for the houses and dwelling caves, land occupation and infrastructure (power,
road, communication and water supply, etc.) is calculated according to their compensation
standards respectively. For the enterprises relocation, the losses by suspend operation and
relocation cost should be considered.
----   compensation standards for other items: the compensation for auxiliaries, agricultural
sideline facilities is calculated in accordance with their preliminarily specified standards and
their corresponding price indices (index of retail price, price index of the social service items
and retail price index of rural construction materials).
The revised compensation standards are more than 1000 which is beyond the general standard
of preliminary design. See table D. 1 for main compensation standards.
8.2    Revised Resettlement Cost Estimate
8.2.1 Reasons and Basis of Revision: The previous state approved investment plan for
resettlement can not ensure the resettlement implementation to carry out smoothly due to changes
of the physical indices in the reservoir area, policies, and resenlement program. Therefore, the
resettlement cost estimate is revised on the basis of recheck result of physical indices in 1994,
previous cost estimate for Phase I resettlement in the reservoir area (at El. 180m and its affected
area) and the features of the resettlement between El.180 - 265m and 265 - 275m in the
reservoir area.
8.2.2 The revision is based on the market price at the end of 1994. The detailed quantitative
calculation (typical design) is carried out for every item with unit price according to item's
elements whose unit prices are based on the prices of local contract, labor cost, actual work time
and materials input. The cost of equipment is based on the latest offer; the price contingency:
local fund is counted at 7% of annual profits and the WB loan is counted at the rate of 4.6%.
See Annex 6 for details.
8.2.3 The revised dynamic cost of resettlement in the reservoir area is RMB 8312 million yuan,
of which 7626 million yuan for the reservoir area resettlement, 565 million yuan for
Wenmengtan training, 121 million yuan for Houhe reservoir (73 million yuan for dam, 48
Page 78



million yuan for irrigation district). The static cost in 1994 is RMB 6436 million yuan, of which
5819 million yuan for the reservoir area resettlement, 510 million yuan for Wenmengtan
training, 107 million yuan for Houhe reservoir (63 million yuan for dam, 44 million yuan for
irrigation district).
The revised dynamic cost of the resettlement is more 61.55% than that one in the WB appraisal
report (RMB5145.3 million yuan), which shows that the Chinese Government is responsible for
and pays more attention to the resettlement. See table D.5 for the comparison of revised cost and
cost in WB appraisal report .
8.3 Proress of Resettlement Planning and Budget Approval and Necessary Measures
Phase I resettlement implementation plan for the reservoir area, which has passed the
preliminary review of MWR and SPC, will be approved formally by SPC in March 1997. From
the review results, the reviewed cost by SPC is higher than that one by MWR. Organized by
YRWHDC, Phase II and III implementation plans are being prepared by RPDI, with assistance
of Henan and Shanxi provincial government, are to be submitted to MWR for review before
June 1997 as required by MWR, and formally approved by SPC in 1997. The approval budget
will be put into effective annually by means of static control and dynamic management. The
existing main problem is the compensation for industries and mines in the reservoir area. The
State Planning Commission indicated that there were great difference between the investigation
results in 1994 and actual conditions of the industries and mines and suggested to reduce 20%
of the compensation during reviewing the Phase I resettlement implementation planning and
design. In order to present fairness, rightness and seeking truth from facts, with the assistance
of Henan and Shanxi provincial governments and YRCC playing an important role,
YRWHDCRO will organize and engage the Accounting Affairs Office to check and register all
items of industries and mines in the reservoir area and finish it at the end of April, 1997 without
impact on cost estimate approval.
8.4   Approval on Price Difference Adjustment Index
The resettlement planning and cost estimate are made on the basis of the price at the end of 1994
and annual implementation cost is adjusted in price difference according to the resettlement
progress. The price difference was adjusted at the rate of 6% when the SPC reviewed Phase 1
resettlement in the reservoir area and will be adjusted according to annual cost allocation when
the price difference adjustment is actually conducted.
8.5   Temporary Measures of Rese_lement Cost Estimate and Compensation Cost
Adjustnent
---- Resettlement Cost Estimate: In accordance with the resettlement implementation progress,
the local resettlement agencies (two provinces) can propose the annual resettlement plan and
YRWHDCRO can allocate the estimated resenlement cost on the basis of the state-approved cost
estimate standard.
Page 79



Temporary Measures of Compensation Cost Adjustment: Some temporary control standard
have to be taken due to delay in review and approval of the Phase I resettlement implementation
planning during the implementation to meet the requirements of resettlement progress. Phase I
resettlement implementation started in 1995, however, the report on implementation planning
was officially not approved by the State. Therefore, a complete temporary control standard was
worked out and properly revised after MWR prereviewed Phase I resettlement implementation
planning and will be given further adjustment to carry out after SPC's review on the Phase I
resettlement planning in March, 1997.
Page 80



Table 8.1           Summary of Cost Estimates for El. 275m Relocatees
Descriptions                  Total        Henan     | Shanai    | Other
1. Rural Area                                   329253.51   242334.82   86918.69
I.Allowance for land compensation               145749.98   103315.12   42434.86
2. Rural residential sites relocation            169987.81   129322.06   40665.75
(a) Houses                                       104500.85   78155.25    26345.60
(b) Oters                                       65486.96    51166.81    14320.15
3. Compensation for agricultural sidelines      3494.38      1973.76     1520.62
4. Compensation for small-sized hydraulic facilities  10021.34    7723.88  2297.46
11 Town Relocation                               16817.63    9899.73    69179
1. Houses                                       10450.91    5764.95     4685.96
2. Others                                       6366.72      4134.78    2231.94
111. Cost of Industrial and mineral enterprises and  124128.52   97067.92    27060.60
roads relocation
1. Institutes outside towns                     1450.91     776.55      674.36
2. Compensation for industrial and mnneral enterprises   85360.00    70136  15224
3. Cost of thespecial items such as roads etc.  37317.61    26155.37    11162.24
(a) road                                        27449.85    19267.69    8182.16
( b) poweT                                      5928.82      3985.52     1943.30
Sc) conmmunication                            | 988.71      732.38      256.33
I (d) broadcastinig                              1185.79     886.78      299.01
(e) compensation for pumping station in the reservoir   130.00  130
ambience
(f) compensation for ferries and ferryboats      73.00       73.00
(g) restoring the transportation in the reservoir  1561.44   1080        481.44
ambiecXne
IV Resemvoir Clearance and Public Health         1251.00     909.35      341.65
V Compensation for Special Items                2484.82      1925.34     559.48
VI Relocation & Construction Cost for the Large  16897.48                           16897.48
Special Items above County Level
(to be continued)
Page 81



Descriptions
VII Overhead Cost                             7469.05                          74609.05
(a) Implementation management                 12724.99                          14724.99
(b) Reconnaissance and design                 7362.49                           7362.49
(c) Reconnaissance and design of design institute  6184.50                      6184.50
(d) Scientific studying                       2454.16                           2454.16
(e) Supervision and Monitoring                4908.33                           4908.33
(f) Technical training                        1646.27                           1646.27
(g) Contingency                               34358.31                          34358.31
(h) Counterpart funds with the WB             1050.00                           1050.00
(i) Startup cost for resettlement agencies    1920.00                           1920.00
VIII Taxes for Farmland Occupation            16425.03    12340.86   4084.17
Total                                         581867.04   364478.02   125882.49  91506.53
Page 82






Annex D
Resettlement Cost Estimate
Page 83






Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. I
Unit      Unit price (in Yuan)   Remarks
l_______________________ DesCription
A. Rural resettlement
I.Land compensation and subsidy                                  Annual output value per mu
1. Cultivated land               mu                              Times calculated in village
Irrigated land                   mu        920                   Ditto
Dry land                         mu        407                   Ditto
Flood field                      mu        664                   Ditto
Vegetable field                  mu        920                   Ditto
2. Garden plot                   mu
Orchard                          mu        2033                  Ditto
Other garden                     mu        800                   Ditto
3. Forest field                  mu
Economic forest                  mu        240                   Ditto
Timber forest                    mu        800                   One time for all
Fuel forest                      mu        400
4.Nursery for plants             mu        920                   Times calculated in village
S. Ponds                         mu                              Times calculated in village
fish ponds                       mu        1144                  Times calculated in village
Reed ponds                       mu        400                   Times calculated in village
6.Grassland                      mu        40                    Times calculated in village
lI.Living funds in resenlemnent                                  Times calculated in village
compensation
I.Compensation for houses and   mn'
kilns
a.Main houses and kilns          m'                              According to typical design,
l_______    __________________  including  the  old  materials
Houses made of prefabrci         m'        203
|materials
Brick and wood houses            m'        198
Page 84



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. I
Items                      Unit       Unit price   Remarks
| ______________________              (in   Yuan)
High brick houses          m2         198
Wood and earth houses      i 2        162
High Wood and earth houses  m2        162
Brick and stone kilns      m2         194
Earth kilns                M2         105
Houses made of mixed       Ml         180
materials
b. Other houses and kilns  mZ2
Brick and wood houses      m2        119
Earth and wood houses      m2         97
Brick and stone kilns      m2         116
Earth kilns                m2         40
Thatched cottage           m2         62
Simple houses              mz         62
2.Compensation for axillary
structures
a. Personal
Enclosing walls            m 2        17
Mixed enclosing walls      M2         12
Earth enclosing walls      m 2        7          _
Decorated walls            M2         17
Gateway arch               m2         145
Cellars                    Nos        233
Water cellar                Nos       466
Toilets                    Nos        155
Page 85



Table D. I Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Items                  Unit  Unit price (in Yuan)  Remarks
Flue                   m2    162
Excreta pit            Nos   20
Wells                  Nos   1552
Cooking ranges at al   Nos   78
Poultry roost          Nos   30
Cattle booth           Nos   20
Pigpens and sheep pens  Nos   124
Ponds                  m3    23
Methane pit            Nos   279
Water tower            Nos   6200
b. Public                                          Same as for personal
ones
Water tower, water     Nos                         Not be compensated
cellar, well and pond
Stage                  Nos   79200
Flower garden           Nos   l0__    _
|Ground                 mu    1628
-§3. Miscellaneous trees      L
a. Fruit trees          Nos
Bearing fruits         Nos   92
Not bearing fruits     Nos   10
b. Timber trees        Nos
Big trees               Nos   40
Small trees             Nos   12
Young trees            Nos   4
4.Transportation
management
Page 86



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. 1
Items                                    Unit   Unit price (in   Remarks
Yuan)
a.Move of naterials
1) Personal                              Nos
Within township                          Nos    64
Outside township                         Nos    142
Yima, Mengxian                           Nos    352
Yuanyang                                 Nos    693
2) Public                                Nos    3950
b.Loss of move                           Nos    20
c. Compensation for working time loss    Nos    54
d. Subsidy for taking vehicles or ships and  Nos    5
mnedical care
c. Subsidy for temtporary houses          Nos    1S0
5.Rural ridential sites construction                            ____
I) land requisition in new site                                  Same to some of the standards
for mral areas
2) Site preparation                        =            _
Volume of earth excavation               ml      4.4
Slope protection                          m3     62
3) For drinking water                         _
a. Motor-pumped wells                     m       605
b.Accessories to the motor-pumped wells
Pump                                                             Interpolation
200 m                                     Nos    30000
100 m                                    Nos    17000
0 m                                      Nos    10000
10 kv lines                              Nos                     standard correspondent to
,________  special item
Page 87



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. 1
Items                           Unit         Unit price    Remarks
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _(in  Yuan)
380 v lines                      Km                        Standard correspondent to low voltage
lines
Distribution chamber            km                         Standard correspondent to low voltage
lines
Subsidy of power project         Nos                       Standard correspondent to low voltage
lines
c.Facilities for water storage   KVA
Storage pond                     M3          70
Water tower                      M3          325
d. Delivery pipes              .
13.2 cm cast iron pipe          m            81
3.6 cm cast iron pipe            m           36
e.Yima  delivery  pipes                      _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
D-200mm castironpipe             m           163
D=l50mmcastironpipe              m           117
D= lOOmm steel             |                 9
D=75mm steel pipe                m           64
D=SOmm steel pipe                m           48
D=40mm steel pipe                m           43
e. Hydrant at the site of Yima   Nos         1200
4) Drain works                   m
a. Drains inside village
0.4xO.5m main drain              m           40
0,2xO.24m lateral drain          m           20
b. Drainage works of Yima
D=-120mm cast iron pipe          m           47
D= 200mm concrete pipe           i           67
Page 88



Compensation and Subsidy Standards 47 of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. I
Items                             Unit        Unit price    Remarks
l ____________________________    _________    (in     Y uan)
D=300mm concete pipes             m           81
D-400nm concrete pipes            m           110
D=400mm reinforced concrete pipes  mn         149
Concrete septic tank              m           335
Sewage-treatment plant                                      According to the implementation
I_________   ___________   plan
5) Streets inside village                                   The same standard as that for
township
Main street                       km          58000
Lateral street                    km          20000
6) Water for construction use
Ds7Smm plastic pipe               m           22
Ds=5(nm plastic pipe              m           15
Ponds                             m'3         70
Constmction road in Yima          m           58
8) Switch house for domnestic power                         I I  |nterpolation
30 KVA                            Nos         17000
50 KVA                            Nos         21000
100 KVA                           Nos         25000
200 KVA                           Nos         36000
315 KVA                           Nos         43000
SO0 KVA                           Nos         50000
Low voltage line for domestic power
380v                              km          3000
220v                              km          17000
Subsidy for Domestic power        KVA         280
Page 89



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. I
Items                                           Unit      Unit price   Remarks
_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ ___   _ _ _ _ _ (in   Y uan)   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I I)Subsidy for broadcast and lighting          Nos      68
111 Subsidy for agriculture and sideline activities
(not including transportation)
1) Subsidy for facility loss
a. Processing industry                          Nos       147
b. Construction material industry
Brick and tile kiln                             Nos       7390
Limekiln                                        Nos      730
c. Commerce and service                         Nos       147
Others                                          Nos       147
1) Transportation for move                      Nos       198
2) Loss for Idling period                       Nos       300
IV Water conservancy facilities
I)Small hydraulic power station                 km       3680
2) Reservoirs                                   ml        4
3) Irrigation and drainage facilities           mu        407
4) Rehabilitation of water-lifting stations around  Nos               0.4 million for Shitoushan 0.3
the reservoir                                                         million for others
B. Move of industries and mines
I) land use compensation                        mu                    Same standard as that for rural
_   dry land
2) Compensation of axillaries of houses and     m2                    Total price of resettlement
dwelling caves___
3) Compensation for infrastructures                =                  Total price of resettlemnent
4) Compensation for production facilities                             Total price of resettlement
5) Compensation for equiptnents___
a. Can be mnoved                                          15%         Total price of resettlement
b. Can not be moved
Total price of resettlement
Page 90



Table D. Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Items                                  Unit  Unit price  Remarks
__________   ___________         (in  Yuan)
6. Loss for idling period              Nos   296         20% of the total amount of
annual salaries, benefits and
taxes
7.Transportation for move
C. Investnent for move of institutions not
belonging to the township
1) Compensation
a. Compensation for land of living                       Same standard as that for some
__________            rural dry lad
b .Compensation for houses and kilns                     Same as for township
c. Compensation for axillaries                           Same as for township
d. Miscellaneous trees                        296        Same as for rural areas
e. Transporation for move              Nos   1357        _
f. loss of commerial facilities        Nos   529
g. loss of idling period of commerce   Nos
2) Plan
1) Site preparation
2) Supply and drainage of water      =_-
i 3) Roads                              _                Select a special standard based
on actual conditions
4) Communication                                         Ditto
S) broadcast-g                          =     __         Ditto
6) Power                                                 Ditto
7) Cableway
Dismantlement and move                 Nos   200000
Resettlement of the staff              Nos   20000
D. Move of townships
1. Compensation                         _
I)Compensation and subsidy for                           The same standard as that for
production land                                           land requisition in Xiwo village
Page 91



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. 1
Items                                Unit        Unit price     Remarks
(in Yuan)
2) Compensation for houses and kilns              1.1
a. Main houses and kilns          -m'
Houses made of prefabric materials    m2         223
Houses of brick and wood            m9           218
High brick houses                   m            218
Houses of earth and wood             m2           178
High earth houses                   ttr          178
Kilns of brick and stones                        213
Earth kilns                          m2           105
Houses of miuxed materials           m2           198
b.Minor houses and kilns
Houses of brick and wood            m2            131
Houses of earth and wood          lm2             107
Kilns of brick and stones    |                    128
Earth kilns                          m2r         40
Thatched Cottage                  l    2          62
Simple houses                       Ml2           62
2) Compensation for axillaries                                  Same as rural area
Toilets                              Nos          776
Chimney                              Nos          1000
Threshing ground                     ml           10
Miscellaneous trees                                             Same as rural area
5) loss of comniercial facilities    Nos          1357
6) loss of idling time of commerce   Nos          529
Page 92



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D.1
Iems                                Unit    Unit price  Remarks
l _________________________________          (in     Y uan)
7) Transportation for move          Nos      296        According to the implementation plan
2.Building of new township                              Same standard as that for Xiwo village
land requisition
I) land requisition for new site
2) Site preparation and protection works
a. Sje preparation
Earth excavation volume             m3       4.4
Extra filling volume                m3       2.5
b. Protection works                 m3       42
3) Water supply works                                   According to the implementation plan
a. Water-lifting works
Phase I works
Phase 11 reconstnuction works
b.Water supply works
I) water tower                      Nos    27000
2)Accessary of puMp                 Nos      10000
3)Cast iron pipe for water supply     =
DN150 (diameter of 6 inches)        m        117
DN 100 (diameter of 4 inches)       m        81
DN 50 (diameter of 2 inches)        m        36
Pipes to households (0.8 inch)      m        19
Fire hydrants outside house         Nos      1200
Valve well outside house            Nos      600
4) Drainage works                      =
a. 0.4mxO.5m                        m        47
-           -7
Page 93



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. I
Items                                   Unit        Unit price    Remarks
(in Yuan)
b.0.3xO.4m                              m           30
5) Streets                                                                                     l
a.Main street                           km          320000
b.Lateral street                        km           100000
6) Power facilities                                                                            l
a. Switch house                         Nos                       Same as rural area
b.Power station                         KVA         280
c.Lines along street(380v)              km          30000
d.Lines to households                   km           11850
7) Communication facilities                                                                    l
a. Compensation for move and build of   Nos         3875
facilities
b. Open wiring along street             km           18000
c.Lines to household                    km          8888
8) Broadcast facilities
a. Broadcast amplification station      Nos         9875
b. Broadcast lines along street         km           10400
E. Plan for special works in host areas
1) Roads
a. Highway at county level
Tarred road (in mountain areas)         Km           650000
b. Highway at county and township level
(1) Tarred road
In plain area with few hills            km          480000
In mountain area                        km          680000
Page 94



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. I
Iters                                    Unit        Unit price   Remnarks
(in Yuan)
(2) Sand and gravel road
In plain area with few hills             km          280000
In mountain area                         km          520000
c.Road in township and village(sand and  km
gravel road
In microtopograghy plain                 km          160000
In mountain area                         km          250000
e. Tractor-ploughing road in Wenmengtan  km          30000
d. Temporary road for mnove              km          15000
2)10 kv lines
In plain                                 km          64000
In hilly area                            km          72000
In monotain area                         km          82000
3) Communication
a.Line at county and township level                  18000
b.Line at township and village level     km          16000
4)Broadcast
Lines at county and township level       km          15300
Lines at township and village level      km          10400
Television relay station                 Nos         38750
F.Ferry, ferry boat
Ferry                                    Nos         5000
ferry boat                               Nos         20000
Special works rehabilitation around the
reservoir
1. Roads
Page 95



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. 1
Items                                       Unit   Unit price    Remarks
(in Yuan)                                     l
a. Supplementary roads                                           Based on implementation plan
b. Improvement of township and village roads   km   125000
c. Others                                                        Same as special works
2.Power transition facilities
a.25kv line                                                      Based on implementation plan
35 kv substation                            Nos                  Based on implementation plan
c. Others                                                        Same as special works
3. Comnmunication facilities                                    Same as special works
4. Broadcast facilities                                          Same as special works
H.Subsidy for special items                                                                       l
1. Compensation for land requisition
accessories
I) For general accessories
a. Production land                          mu      133
b.Living land                               mu      133
2) For special accessories
a. Dismantlement and reset of communication
line in Yima city                                       __l
(1) Power lines
35kv line                                   km      170000
10kv line                                   km     72000
(2) Communication line
Optical cables                              km      100000
Cables                                      km      160000
b. Compensation for move of special ground
accessories in Menxian
Exploration of relics in township and Yima
Page 96



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. 1
Items                                 Unit         Unit price    Remarks
(in Yuan)
3.Waterlogging drainage works in                                 According to implementation
Mengxian                                                         plan
a). Land used                         mu                         Same as the rural standard
b).Canals (1.Sxim)                    m            85
c).Stations                           Nos          241000 yuan
1) Reservoir clearing
a. Structure clearing             -
(I) Units under the control of the    Nos          198
township
(2) Rural houses                      Nos          40
(3) Industries and mines              Nos          296
(4) Units not under control of the    Nos          198
township                              _            _ _ _  _
b. Sanitation
(1) Toilets excreta pit, and rubbish
Units under control of the township   Nos          40
Rural residents                       Nos          20
Mines and industries                  Nos          40
(2) Hospitals, veterinary stations    Nos          99
(3) Move of tombs                     _            _
Single coffin                         Nos          136
Double cofftn                         Nos          204
c.Forest clearing                    mnu
Forest field dm                                    30
Garden field                          mu           30
Miscellaneous trees                   mu           30
2.Large special works at and above
county level
Page 97



Compensation and Subsidy Standards of Resettlement of Xiaolangdi Project
Table D. 1
Items                                  Unit   Unit price  Remarks
l ________________________________             (in     Y uan)
(1) Move and building of the 4th prison                   Compensation based on physical
in Henan province                                          propenies and restore the previous
functions
(2) Move and building of the hydrometric                   Ditto
station
(3)Treatment for relics and historical sites               According to the implementation pLan
(4)Rehabilitation of bench mark in                         Restore the previous functions
triangulation spot of in the reservoir area
K. Land use taxes                      mu      720
L. Other costs
(I) Cost of administrative management                      3% of the amount of A-i
(2)Cost of exploration and design                          2% of the amount of A-J
(3)Cost of exploration and plan                            1.76% of the amount of A-J
(4)Cost of scientific research                             0.5% of the amount of A-i
(5)Cost of supervision and monitoring                      1% of the amount of A-i
(6)Cost of technical training                              0.5% of the amount of A
(7)Cost occurred when cooperating the          4.5
world bank's work                              million
Physical contingency                     _                01 % of the amount of A-i
Page 98



Table D.2      Revised Cost for XLD Reservoir Inundation Treatment (Unit: 10000 yuan
Items             Whole Reservoir   Henan Province    Shanxi Province    Remarks
Area
I Rural Resetlement Cost      329253.51         242334.82         86918.69
(i) Land Compensation         145749.98         103315.12         42434.86
1. farmland                   103734.74        76255.99           27478.75
2. orchards                   34610.84          21764.86          12B45.98
3. forestry                   6175.24           4528.61           1646.63
4. pond                       611.48            508.26            103.22
5. grass hnd                  617.68            257.4             360.28
(ii) Resettlers' Livelihood   169987.81         129322.06         40665.75
Developimer
1. houses and dwelling caves  104500.85         78155.25          26345.60
2. auxiliaries                16957.73          12998.94          3958.79
3. mescellaeous trees         15229.27          12003.16          3226.11
4. new villages construction  28176.89          22139.37          6037.52            at cost per capita
5. transpofation charges      5123.07           4025.34           1097.73
(iii) Compensation for        3494.38           1973.76           1520.62
Agricukuml Sidelines
(iv) Compensation for Hydraulic  10021.34       7723.88           2297.46
Facilities
11. Towns Relocation and      16817.63          9899.73           6917.90
Construction
(i) Compensated Items         13197.47          7743.93           5451.54
1. land for production        4.4.98            321.4             83.58
2. houses and caves           10450.91          5764.95           4685.96
3. auxiliaries                792.98            306.65            486.33
4. miscellaneous trees        87.42             36.8              50.62
5. loss of the facilities of  11.94             9.23              2.71
comnercial units
6. ss caused by suspend       102.20            81.78             20.42
operation(conmercial units)
7. compensation for industries  1046.04         1046.04
and mines
8. transportation charges     301.00            179.08            121.92
Page 99



Table D.2       Revised Cost for XLD Reservoir Inundation Treatment (Unit: 10000 vuan)
Items                  Whole Reservoir  Henan Province   Shanxi        Remarks
Area                              Province
(ii) Planned Items                     3620.16          2153.8            1466.36      cost per capita of
planned people
111 Special Items such as Roads        124128.52        97067.92          27060.60
(i) Relocation and construction cost for  1450.91       776.55            674.36
institutes outside towns
1. compensated items                   1211.27          598.9             612.37
(I) land for production and livelihood  476.64           83.18            393.46
(2) houses and caves                   607.42           440.54            166.88
(3) auxiliaries                        81.16            38.73             42.43
(4) mescellaeous trees                 7.55             7.55
(5) facility loss of commercial units  2.99              2.58             0.41
(6) loss caused by suspend              16.76            12.42            4.34
operation(comMeTicial units)
(7) transportation cost                 18.75            13.9             4.85
2. planned items                       239.64            177.65           61.99
(ii) industries and mines              85360.00          70136.00         15224.00
(iii) special items such as roads      35553.17          24872.37         10680.80
1. roads                               27449.85          19267.69         8182.16
(1) county level roads                  14425.80         9789.8           4638
(2) county-town roads                  5998.24           3796.24          2202
(3) vilhge roads                       5780.64           4523.04          1257.6
(4) road for tractor ploughing         846.00            846
(5) temporary road for relocation      399.17            314.61           84.56
2. power                               5928.82           3985.52          1943.3
3. communication                       988.71            732.38           256.33
4. broadcasting                         1185.79          886.78           299.01
(iv)pumped stations around the reservoir    130.00       130.00
(v) terries and ferryboars              73.00            73.00
(vi) traffic restore around the reservoir  1561.44       1080.00          481.44
Page 100



Table D.2       Revised Cost for XLD Reservoir Inundation Treatnent
Unit 10000 yuan
hIems                 Whole Reservoir  Henan          Shanxi          Remarks
Area             Province       Province
IV. Reservoir Clearance Cost         1251.00           909.35         341.65
V. Compensation for Special Items    2484.82           1925.34        559.48
VI. Relocation & Constarction Cost for   16897.48
Special Items above County level
(i) Henan Provincial Fourth Prison   6615.68
(ii) hydrological station            542.39
(iii) cultural relics                2281.44
(iv) bench mnrk reloation &          242.7
construction
(v) 220kv transmission lines         836.55
(vi) national defence communication  542.2
(vii) Zhongtiaoshan water supply work   81.161294.02
(viii) power supply for the reservoir area  7.554542.5
Total in items I - 9                 490832.96         352137.16      121798.32
VD Odter Cost                        74609.05
(i) inplementation management cost    14724.99
(ii) reconnissasnce and design cost  7362.49
(iii) reconnaissance and design cost for    6184.50
(iv) scientific study cost           2454.16
(v) supervision and nonitoring cost  4908.33
(vi) technical training cost          1646.27
(vii) physical contingency           34358.31
(viii) counterpart fund               1050.00
(ix) stan-up cost of resettlment agencies  1920.00                                   according to
approved start-up
cost, including 6.2
million yuan for
constructton unit
VUIL Tax for Land Occupation          16425.03         12340 86       4084 17
| Total                          .   581867.04         364478.02      125882.49
Page 10 1



Table D.3 Cost Breakdown for Wennmengtan of the XLD Resettlement Project
Unit: 10000 yuan
Items                                                     Cost (10000 yuan)
Wenmengtan                                                51011.02
Works in the River Channel                                22467.05
Warping for Soil Improvemenl                              28543.97
Table DA4       Cost Breakdown of Houhe Reservoir and Irrigated Area of XLD Resettlement Project
Unit: l000 yuan
Items                                        Cost (10000 yuan)
Total
Houhe Dam                                                    6319.61
Irrigation District                                          4246.00
1. artery                                                   733.00
2. east and west mains                                        1944.00
l3. branches
4. others (including naterials differences)                  878.00
5. road for the administration department                    355.00
6. temporarily built works                                   336.00
Page 102



Tabk D.S       Comparison Between Revised Cost Estimate and Appraised Cost Estimate
Items                         Revised                Appraised             Difference
I Total in Base Cost          592660.35              271490.00             321170.35
1. Subtotal in Resetlement    592660.35              269490.00             323170.35
(1) Resettlement              380375.02              145010.00             235365.02
Plannitng, Design and        27979.92              6050.00                21929.92
Management
Dwellings, Infrastructure    346431.31              135510.00             210921.31
Constuaction
Relbaee's Relocation           5963.79               3450.00               2513.79
(2) Livelihood and Social     212285.32              124480.00             87805.32
Development
Wenmengan                   52704.36               24010.00              28694.36
Houhe Dam and Its            11104.40              7900.00               3204.40
Irrigation District
Agricultural                 136205.75             88480                 47725.75
Reselement        
Monitoring and               12270.83              4090.00                8180.83
Supervision Cost
2. Envounenal                                        2000                   - 2000
Mangement Planning
DI Physical Contingency        34563.31              18610.00               15953.31
HIm Price Contingency          183298.66             224430.00              41131.34
IV Service and Commission      4208.25                                     4208.25
Charges of Foreign Fund
Service Charge               2627.328                                     2627.328
Commission Charge            1580.92                                      1580.92
V Tax for Lnd                  16425.03                                     16425.03
Occupation
Total Cost of the Project      831155.60             514530.00             316625.6
Page 103



9.    Assessment of Resettled Households' Incomes
9.1   Progress in Survey of Household Incomes
Entrusted by YRWHDC RO, the resettlement monitoring institute of North China
Hydroelectricity is responsible for survey of household incomes. Since the survey is not
continuous, YRWHDC RO entrusted county(city) agricultural survey group to perform
follow-up survey for incomes of Phase I reservoir area resettlers before and after
resettlement. Agricultural survey groups in Mengjin and Jinyuan city have implemented
such survey to the dam area resettlers before and after resettlement since September
1995, in addition, since December 1995, surveys have been implemented for the dam
area resettlers after resettlement and Phase I reservoir area resettlers before resettlement.
At present, the surveys are being conducted smoothly.
9.2   Survey Methods
Follow-up survey has been adopted as survey type, generally, 10 households in each
resettlement village are selected for follow-up survey, which can be increased and
decrease depending on physical conditions. The incomes of the surveyed households are
grouped in three categories: high, middle and low, and standing account for each
surveyed household has been established, the households are required to record their
daily actually occurred expenditures and incomes in cash or physical items in the standing
account in specified formats, which must be checked by the survey group once each
month and be summarized every three months. Then the survey groups submit the survey
summaries to YRWHDC RO based on Table for survey of Resettlers' Household
Incomes and Expenditures in Planting Involved in Resettlement of XLD Project, and
Table of Resettlers' Incomes from Part-times Jobs, Sideline Activities and other Sources.
9.3  Income Survey for Dam Area Resettlement
The dam area resettlement has been finished, surveys have been conducted for resettlers'
incomes before and after resettlement, which involving 373 persons of 82 households in
11 resettlement villages. The survey results are shown in table 9-1.
9.4   Survey for Phase I Reservoir Resettlers's Incomes before Resettlement
The Phase I reservoir resettlers are constructing the new village, and have not moved,
so only surveys for incomes before resettlement have been conducted, involving 1638
persons in 345 households (accounting for 4% of the total population). They have
incomes of 1081.4 yuan per capita before resettlement( Table 9-2 shows the details).
Now follow-up survey has been conducted for incomes after resettlement.
9.5   Organization and Plans of Surveys for Resettlers' Incomes
Page 104



Follow-up survey for resettlers before and after resettlement have been performed under
the leadership of YRWHDC and implementation by county resettlement offices and
survey groups on basis of contracts, who collect and summarize household standing
accounts on time and report them to YRWHDC RO. Now, survey for Phase I dam area
resettlers' incomes before resettlement have been accomplished, the surveys for incomes
after resettlement are planned to begin at the beginning of 1997. With implementation
of resettlement, income surveys for Phase I,JI resettlers will be performed step by step
with the resettlement progress.
Page 105



Table of Survey for Dam Area Resettlers's Incomes before and after Resettlement
Table 9-1
Order   Name of        Nos of       Incomes per capita
village       Surveyed
households   Before      After          Increasing
resettlemen  resettlement   Percentage
t
Total         82           485.8        1014.3        109%
Mengjin       41           461.9        517.3         12%
county
I       Liuzhuang      10          363.9        438.9          21%
2       Shimen         6            414.5        501.9         21%
3       Shiyuanpo      8            420.4        503.9         20%
4       Heqing         4            451.1        752.7         67%
5       Xiaolangdi    8             560.1        630.1         13%
6       Qinghe         Mosin rescrvoir
are and ame
included in
survey for
reservoir area
Jiyuan city    41          509.6        1463.5        187%
7       Liandi         9            262.2        1072.5        309%
8       Tongshuling   9             343.5        1535.5        347%
9       Qiaogou        8            439.9        1512.8        244%
10      Shuangtang    9             736.4        1236          68%
11      Liaowu        6             942.1        2157.3        129%
12      Baigou        Most in reservoir
area and are
included in
survey for
reservoir area
Page 106



-. 11                      I   LAI 



10.   Social Adaptability Adjustment
10.1 Measures for Social Adjustment
YRWHDCRO, provincial and county offices are to handle the social adjustment by means of the
following measures:
10.1.1       General Principles
Conduct planning, implementation and monitoring in line with the project's resettlement program
criteria. The resettlement progran undertakes to:
---    protect relocatee and host standards of living;
---    Ensure that the moving period is brief;
---    Ensure that diverse income earning opportunities are developed for both relocatees and
hosts;
---    Consult relocatees and hosts and secure their agreement for plans;
Resettle people in groups, preferably not too far from their place of origin.
Provide early land compensation payments to hosts in order that investments in
alternative income earning opportunities can proceed before land is transferred;
---    Guarantee a system of basic income support that will protect hosts and relocatees if their
incomes are insufficient for their basic needs;
---   Introduce various preferential policies to support relocatee and host incomes.
10.1.2       Support for the Agricultural Livelihoods
Provide land based relocatees with a minimum of 1.7mu land per capita or, if less, increase
irrigation. (counted at the standard that the yield per mu of irrigated land is 2 times as that of
dry land.)
Provide agriculture extension services to relocatees and hosts to assist them as needed in
adjusting to new land, crops and fanning patterns.
Provide agriculture technology training to introduce relocatees and hosts to any new technologies
(e.g. irrigation) which the resettlement program may introduce.
Establish credit facilities to assist relocatees and hosts in making capital investments in
agriculture.
Identify and explore marketing opportunities that relocatees and hosts could exploit to increase
the revenue for farm produce (e.g., local markets for fresh vegetables).
10.1.3       Support for Nonfarm Livelihoods
Page 108



Assist men and women transferring into nonagricultural employment with employment skills
training.
Locate factories and enterprises employing nonfarm labor as near to relocatee villages as
possible in order to reduce the need for workers to be away from their families for extended
periods of time.
Ensure that villages not be deprived of all able-bodied people in order that agricultural needs and
the needs of the young and old can still be net.
Assist urban relocatees to establish businesses or acquire vending permits.
Secure employment and nonagricultural registrations for family members of urban relocatees.
10.1.4      Host - Relocatee Relations
Locate relocatee villages on the borders between two or more host villages in order that the
relative impact on any particular host village is reduced.
Ensure that adequate, formal agreements are concluded between concerned parties prior to
resettlement occurring.
Give preference to hosts in the hiring of labor needed to prepare land for relocatees where the
relocatees cannot do it themselves.
Assist village leaders to reestablish themselves equitably within the host xiangs.
10.1.5      Infrastructure
Ensure, prior to relocation, that schools and health clinics in the host area are able to absorb the
new population. Criteria of adequacy (e.g., pupils per classroom) will be in line with the
prevailing provincial standards.
Undertake studies to ensure that domestic water supplies in the host areas are secure.
10.1.6       Training and Consultation
Provide training to resettlement staff on social adjustment issues.
A handbook of criteria, principles and practices will be prepared and provided to each
resettlement officer as well as to xiang and village leaders outlining social adjustment issues in
the resettlement program.
A detailed guide on the resettlement program will be prepared and provided to each relocatee
Page 109



household describing the program, compensation standards, income objectives, consultation
mechanisms, safety nets, grievance mechanisms and other necessary information.
An similar guide will be provided to host households.
Offer skills and employment training to relocatees shifting from agricultural to nonagricultural
livelihoods.
Prepare special information programs directed at relocatee children for use in schools in the
inundation area.
10.1.8      Data Collection and Monitoring
Prepare a full record of baseline socioeconomic household data to be collected during the
resurvey of inundation indices and/or at the time of completion of the compensation red book.
Establish an independent monitoring system with ability to introduce change if actual conditions
are below expected/planned conditions.
10.1.8      Women
Consult, in a formal fashion, with women and with women's groups in planning and
implementing the resettlement program.
Employ women in xiang and County Resettlement Offices to work as planning and field staff,
and provide training courses to these women, to help them understand resettlement and how to
deal with the problems.
Provide skills training directed at women whose previous work experience is limited to cottage
industry and who wish to develop new skills.
Assist relocatee women by identifying opportunities where their cottage industry skills could be
used in host areas
10.1.9      Health
Identify particularly vulnerable individuals and groups and monitor their adjustment closely.
Improve the medical and sanitation facilities to make every resettled village have such facilities
and make relocatees obtain health assistance during and after relocation.
Provide relocatees with comprehensive health assistance at all times.
10.2 Non-government Organizations
Page 110



household describing the program, compensation standards, income objectives, consultation
mechanisms, safety nets, grievance mechanisms and other necessary information.
An similar guide will be provided to host households.
Offer skills and employment training to relocatees shifting from agricultural to nonagricultural
livelihoods.
Prepare special information programs directed at relocatee children for use in schools in the
inundation area.
10.1.8      Data Collection and Monitoring
Prepare a full record of baseline socioeconomic household data to be collected during the
resurvey of inundation indices and/or at the time of completion of the compensation red book.
Establish an independent monitoring system with ability to introduce change if actual conditions
are below expected/planned conditions.
10.1.8      Women
Consult, in a formal fashion, with women and with women's groups in planning and
implementing the resettlement program.
Employ women in xiang and County Resettlement Offices to work as planning and field staff,
and provide training courses to these women, to help them understand resettlement and how to
deal with the problems.
Provide skills training directed at women whose previous work experience is limited to cottage
industry and who wish to develop new skills.
Assist relocatee women by identifying opportunities where their cottage industry skills could be
used in host areas
10.1.9      Health
Identify particularly vulnerable individuals and groups and monitor their adjustment closely.
Improve the medical and sanitation facilities to make every resettled village have such facilities
and make relocatees obtain health assistance during and after relocation.
Provide relocatees with comprehensive health assistance at all times.
10.2 Non-govermnent Organizations
Page 110



The social organizations servicing resettlement include government organization whose functions
are stated in the section of Resettlement Organization Management and non-government
organization which will be described here. The nongovernment organization includes village
committee, public security committee, civil mediation committee, women's federation union,
village resettlement leading group and relocatees representatives, the first four organizations are
common nongovernrent organizations in China and are controlled in a centralized way by
specialized departments and perforn their own functions respectively.
10.2.1       The village committee is the most important non government organization which
is responsible for carrying out the laws and regulations stipulated by the state, strengthening
village management, putting the villagers into autonomy, managing collective property on behalf
of villagers, arranging agricultural and industrial production, protecting the villagers' interests
and has high prestige and very strong representativeness.
10.2.2       The public security conunittee is responsible for social safe and security and
during resettlement, mainly set up patrol party consisting of 10 - 15 people who are divided into
several groups on the basis of new and old villages' distribution and take their own
responsibilities and petrol day and night by means of striking the gong to remind the people of
having an eye on safety.
10.2.3       The civil mediation committee has played an important role during relocation. On
the basis of several-year experience, the argument is divided into three kinds: one is the
compensation argument with focus on who it belongs to; one is homestead argument such as
common wall's location and use right; one is the argument between the relocatees and outside
construction contractors such as house quality, construction materials and cost settlement, etc.
10.2.4       The women's federation works on protecting the women's and children's legal
rights and interests and reflects women's difficulty relevant to the relocation and provides help
to the families lack of labor force.
10.2.5       Village resettlement leading group: It is usually formed before the new villages
is constructed. The head and deputy head of it are usually the main chiefs of the village
committee and the its members are chiefs of public security committee, civil mediation
committee and women's federation, also relocatee's representative in some villages.
10.2.6       Relocatees' Representatives: The relocatees' representatives are selected by some
relocatees in some villages, e.g. in Yandong village, some relocatees who will move out of the
county to resettle in Wenrnengtan select their representatives to reflect their opinions to
govermnent organization at various levels; the local people-run school teachers also select their
representatives to reflect their problems concerning resettlement.
10.3 Agricultural and Industrial Services Organization
10.3.1      In agricultural respect, the governments at various levels have agricultural function
Page 111



departinent. The county agricultural economic committee with the function of coordinating in
a unified way rural economic development mainly includes agriculture bureau, water
conservancy bureau, forestry bureau, animal husbandry bureau and grain bureau which are
responsible for their special affairs respectively. For example, the agriculture bureau is in charge
of agricultural aspect in a unified way and sets up internal agricultural technology propaganda
center which spreads the improved varieties and planting technology; the water conservancy
bureau is in charge of managing water resources development, expanding agricultural irrigation
and settling the problem of drinking water for human and animals. In general, the
nongovernment organization in agricultural field includes agricultural association, forestry
association, water conservancy association and horticultural association, etc. with main tasks of
consulting, scientific studying and exchanging experience
10.3.2      The industrial service organization mainly includes planned economic committee
in charge of reviewing and approving the projects, township enterprises bureau, industrial
bureau, coal bureau and commercial bureau, etc, which are in charge of their fields respectively.
The industrial bureau at county level usually has not nongovernment organization.
10.4 Combination of Relocatees and Host Area Residents
Because the resettlement planning for the host area is made on the basis of seeking opinions of
the relocatees and host village residents and the agreement between relocated and host villages
is signed, these provide the basis for the combination of relocatees and host area residents and
such agreement provides legal basis for resolving various arguments. In addition, the various
resettlement agencies, especially county resettlement offices, actively make the resetlement
policies open to the public so that the long-time interests of common development can be
realized. Although the relocated villages exist independent of host villages from view of
appearance, the relocated villages are combined with the host villages in respect of politics,
society and economy. On the basis of performance (relocation), the relocatees moving back in
their villages (such as damsite area) need little adjustment and relocatees moving in other places
which are far from their old villages and out or their towns/counties, especially in Wenmengtan
and Yuanyang, need more adjustment with great difficulties and longer time and with county
government and rsettlement agencies playing an important role. However, from the view of
relocation in the damsite area and at EL 80m in the reservoir area, these relocatees are satisfied
with the new circumstances and are in stable mood, the host residernts can also improve the
infrastructures, develop agricultural and industrial production to make up the losses caused by
the resettlement by means of the land compensation money. For example, Beishuitun village in
Jiyuan city which allocates land to Lujialing village, by taking advantage of the land
compensation money, has changed the village street into cement-face road and rebuilt the power
lines in and out of the village, newly added one transformer to improve irrigation guarantee,
built preliminarily Changhong Glass Products Factory which is partially put into operation and
has annual production value of 5 million yuan after full completion. The another example is
Zhongmatou village which provides 380mu land to the relocatees from Liuzhuang village and
obtain the compensation money 2.3 million yuan, some of which has been paid to 4 farm trucks,
4 small-sized combined harvesters, 3.4km roads within village, I km irrigation channel, existing
Page 112



drains preparation and 6 pumped wells construction. 26mu rice land transferred into corn land
due to shortage of water may be planted with rice because of irrigation condition improvement.
In addition, this village is to build one carbon rod factory with the cost of 1 million yuan and
is doing its prepreparation work. The other host villages make up losses in this way. No
argument between relocated and host villages has been found.
10.5 Women, the Old, Children and Special Poor Faniilies
10.5.1      Women:  In line with China Constitution, the women should share the rights
equal to the men. Based on several-year relocation, the women directly take part in the
resettlement planning through their own organization -- Women's Federation, most of their
reasonable suggestions are paid more attention and also taken, e.g. selection of the occupation
and work kinds, men and women enjoying equal pay for equal work, constructing kindergarten
and infant school in the village. They are taken medical examination periodically by the township
hospital.
10.5.2      The Old: China has the good habit of respecting the old. The old who has
children usually is tended by his children, the care to the elderly person of no family is arranged
by the village committee. They can be financed by the village committee to go to the old folks'
home or still live in the village according to their own opinions. The old who goes to the old
folks' home will be financed by the village and who still lives in the village will be serviced by
the volunteer and paid by the village committee in grain, clothes and consumptive goods. Some
villages, such as Siyuanpo and Xiaolangdi villages, take care of the over 60-year old by means
of paying old-age pension.
10.5.3      Children: The children gained good care during relocation. Firstly, children could
go to school continuously because villages took transition measures. At present, Phase I
relocated villages have built primary schools and most of Phase II relocated villages also have
built primary schools with better education conditions and surroundings. The middle school
students can go to near township middle school. In China, little kindergarten are built in rural
villages, but new Xiaolangdi and Liaowu villages have built kindergartens so that children can
be taken good care of and no disadvantage (malnutrition, unsafe etc.) event occurs.
10.5.4      Special Poor Families:   Few special poor families existing in relocated
villages include two kinds: one is the permanently poor families (due to deformity or disability
of laboring because of old age) which are tended by means of same support method as the
elderly person of no family and financed by the village; the other is temporarily poor families
(due to shortage of training, money or temporary difficulties, some due to little houses and
insufficient comwpensation money to build new ones) which will be supported and trained and
given allowance respectively according to their different cases so as to make them throw off
poverty.
10.6 Preferential Policies
Page 113



The State and govermments at various levels always pay more attention to making the preferential
policies for the relocatees. The Henna and Shanxi provincial govermnents issued the preferential
policies for Xiaolangdi reservoir resettlement in 1993 and some cities and counties also made
such policies, involving employment, tax exemptions and reductions, goods and materials
supply, transferring agricultural registration into nonagricultural one, staff training, professional
support, etc. Henna provincial govermnent issued the notice on carrying out counterpart support
for Xiaolangdi resettlement in May, 1996 which clearly states that the counterpart supports in
transverse and longitudinal directions are required to provide to the project-affected 8
counties/cities (Xin'an, Jiyuan, Mengjin, Mianchi, Wenxian, Mengxian, Yuangyang, Yima). The
transverse counterpart support means that Zhengzhou, Kaifeng, Puyang, Anyang, Xinxiang,
Zhoukou, Jiaozuo cities provide support to their own resettlement counties/cities respectively;
the longitudinal counterpan support presents to that 26 provincial directly-controlled units such
as fiance, water conservancy, bank and power departments establish relationship with above
mentioned 8 counties (cities) and give more suppon in professional work and project
arrangement, capital put-in and technical instructions. Some of these policies have been carried
out, e.g. in reducing 30% of power supply allowance, directional enrollment in the colleges and
universities, loan from the bank, the project approval, etc. and some are to be improved and
carried out so that the relocatees can really benefit from them. See table 10-1 for details.
10.7 Public Participation and Consultation
It is to say that the relocatees of Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project take part in the whole
resettlement implementation and play an important role.
10.7.1      Physical Indices Survey: Every relocated family took part in the physical indices
recheck in 1994, including family size, houses and cave dwellings, auxiliary buildings, domestic
sidelines, resettlement intention, and the agreement was reached and signed.
10.7.2      Preparation of Resettlement Planning Program:  Theplanningprogramfornew
village, especially location seletion, is formed after many discussions with villages, towns,
counties, cities, provinces as well as the various-level governments and chiefs of resettlement
agencies, therefore, the resettlement planning may be said as a result of common efforts. After
the program for new village location selection is initially worked out by the planning and design
staff, the relocatees usually investigate again in field and discuss and listen to these staff 's
opinions on street layout, water supply and residential quartrs plnning. After the program is
decided, the relocated village and host village also sign a agreement on land adjustment.
10.7.3      Compensation Payment: in the light of the state approved standards, every family
registers the materials to be compensated in a book in a formal way which is signed by the chief
of local resettlement office, village head and the householder. The original copies are kept by
the -householder and county resettlement office respectively and is considered as the payment
basis for the agreed compensation and allowance.
Page 114



10.7.4        House Construction: The relocatee can select his house style and area and
organize construction on the basis of allocated homestead, compensation money and savings.
Also, some relocatees, especially those who move out of the county, construct their houses with
the collective assistance. Several different layout styles of houses with different areas designed
by the design department are ready for selection by the relocatees.
10.7.5        Policies Propaganda: To open the national resettlement policies to the relocatees
is major task of the public participation and is concerned by the relocatees and is also conducted
by means of TV, broadcasting, informal discuss, meeting, printing and distributing publicity,
which are favor of resettlement progressing smoothly.
Table 10-1        Henan Provincial Preferential Policies and Performance
Made Preferential Policies                          Performancel
1. to conduct the XLD resettlement as an      Resettlement leading group has been set up in l
important work                                 provincial, city and county govemmens and
considers the resettlement as in its annual check
targets.
2. to reduce or remit the taxes, charges and
retained money, to speed up the economic
development of resettlement
The land occupation tax has been remitted by the
1). to remit the tax of land occupation       host area in the reservoir and dam areas, is to
confirmed by the State Planning Commission and
2). to remit the tax of the special products of  the State Financial Commission. MWR has
agriculture and forestry                      reported it.
3). to remit the tax on the enterprises for 5 years  Working with the financial departments, the
provincial financial bureau will state the reducing
and remitting operation methods for the local
taxes.
4) to reduce or remit the allowance of power   The provincial power bureau has decided to reduce
supply                                         30% of the tax and has carried out.
5) to remit tax and retained money for the waste  The provincial financial and taxes departments will
slopes and flood plain cultivated by the relocatees    carry out.
6) to permit the relocatees to farm on the rising  YRWHDCRO will consult it with the local
and falling area of the reservoir              governments and only carry out after the
completion of the XLD Project.
Page 115



3. to handle the registration transmission (from  The provincial planning commission has carried
agricultural registrations to nonagricultural ones)    out.
according to the approved resettlement planning
4. to absorb the talents and improve the qualities    It has been performed.
of resettlemnent officials and technic staff
5. to carny out countespart support and make the    The provincial government has inform the
resettlement well                          longitudinal and transverse counterpart support
units and it has been performed. The provincial
government will hole the counterpat support
meeting to accelerate it to be conducted in the first
half of year 1997
11    Complains and Grievances and Settlement
11.1   Legal Basis of Complains and Grievances
The relocatees are one part of Chinese citizens and share all rights and obligations given by state
constitution, laws and regulations. If their legal rights and interests are infringed, the relocatees
can nuke an appeal in line with the law till it is resolved. The main legal basis are as follows:
--    The Constitution of the People's Republic of China
=      lThe Administrative Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China
*-    The National Compensation Law of the People's Republic of China
The Labor Law of the People's Republic of China
--     Th'e Agrarian Management Law and Regulations of the People's Republic of China
--    Interim Regulations on Notary of the People's Republic of China
--     Regulations on Petition Leter issued by the State Council
--     Regulations on Compensation for Land  Requisition and Resettlement   for the
Constnction of the Large and Medium Sized Hydropower Projects
--    JNotice on Several Opinions on Strengthening Reservoir Resettlement prepared by the
State Plan Commission and approved and transmitted by the State Council
--     Resettlement Planning an Design for Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project
11.2 Channels and Procedures of Relocatees' Complains and Grievances
According to the laws and regulations of China and the foundation of government agencies, the
channels and procedures of relocatees' complains and grievances are concluded as follows:
11.2.1       To settle grievances by way of the local governments at different levels:The
petition letter office is established in township, county and provincial governments. Generally,
the grievances are reflected according to such order: village-town--county--city--province and
also directly reflected to the higher-level govermnent which will resolve it within its power or
cause related department to settle it.
Page 116



11.2.2       To settle grievances by means of resettlement management agencies at different
levels: The resettlement agencies are directly in charge of settling complains concerning the
resettlement such as compensation for properties, resettlement location, houses construction, land
requisition, etc.. Such complains can be reflected in the following order: relocatee--village
committee--township resettlement working team--county resettlement office--city resettlement
office--provincial resettlement office--employer (YRWHDCRO)--resettlement office of MWR
and also directly reflected to the higher-level government department which will settle them
within its power or cause the related agency to resolve them.
11.2.3       To settle the grievances through resettlement supervision  agencies: The
resettlement office of YRCC, the supervision agency of XLD Resettlement Project, can directly
listen to the relocatees' complains and report them to the related agencies and has the right to
supervise and inspect whether the resettlement agencies have made appropriate arrangements for
the relocatees in the light of approved the planning and design requirements. The resettlement
supervision department of North China Hydropower Institute, as an independent unit monitoring
and evaluating social and economic status, carries out monitoring and evaluating the resettlement
implementation once every six months, should directly listen to the opinions of relocatees and
resettlement agencies and examine whether the complain channel is smooth and also has
obligations to protect relocatees' legal interests and reflect the raised problems to concerned
agencies.
11.2.4       To settle through the legal agencies: The administrative supervision, audit and
law enforcement agencies (court, judicial departments and procuratorate) are formed in the local
governments at various levels and mainly deal with events of law and discipline violations. The
relocatees can make an appeal on any infringed legal right and interest and ask for trying and
judging it. Generally, the appeal can be firstly handled by the basic-level court and needs to
reconsider by the higher-level court if the argument exists.
Generally speaking, the XLD multipurpose dam project is one of the national important projects
and the resettlement is the duty of the governments at various levels. The problem caused by the
relocatees' appeal for protecting his legal rights and interests and making various governments
involved can be reflected and settled by way of above mentioned channels. In accordance with
the item 37 of the Administrative Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China that, as to
the case within the power of the people's court, any citizen, legal person or other organization
can firstly ask for reconsideration by the higher-level administrative agency or the appointed
administrative agency by the laws and regulations, and can submit the case to the people's court
if the reconsideration is not satisfied, and can also directly submit the case to the people's court,
therefore, the procedures of the relocatees' appeal can follow the administrative management
channels to settle and the relocatees can submit the case to the legal departments if the
reconsideration by the administrative management channels fails to settle, certainly, can also
directly make an appeal to the government and legal agencies.
11.3 Settlement of Relocatees' Complains and Grievances
Page 117



The XLD relocatees' complain and grievances channels are basically smooth. The complains and
appeals mostly are shown in oral and written, individual and massive types, and basically are
divided into the following types:
11.3.1      Psychological and Physiological Aspects: The relocatees mainly woriy about that
they are not suitable to new host area. As to the Phase II relocatees moving out of their towns
and counties to new villages far away from their old villages, some, especially the old and
housewives, worry about that they are not used to new production and living conditions. The
complain hereon takes up 10% of all complains. Such worries are from the shortage of
understanding the host area and will be weakened and reduced gradually with the relocation and
the tine.
11.3.2      Economic Aspect: The problems are focused on properties compensation, such
as wrong and failure registrations, low compensation standard, property ownership and
assignment, etc.. The complain hereon takes up 20-30% of all complains. The wrong and failure
registrations can be jointly investigated and checked by the employer, design institute and
provincial resettlement office. In respect of low compensation standard, the reasonable
requirements such as school construction with difficulties is to be solved by use of newly added
allowance for the cultural and education aspects approved by the State Planning Commission in
the course of the Phase II resettlement cost estimates at the planned standard Qf l0Oyuan/person
and special poor households unable to build new houses can be settled by use of the contingency,
the unreasonable requirements will be handled by persuading the relocatees. The property
ownership and assignment can be settled by the village in a coordination way, the properties of
relocatees moving outside their counties are distributed according to provincial management
methods
11.3.3      Relocation and Resettlement Aspect: It mainly involves site selection, houses
construction in new villages, land allocation, becoming an official teacher from the local people
run school teacher, etc. The appeals hereon constitute 40-50% of all appeals. For example, the
Phase II relocatees in Xin'an county may be moved in and out of the county, however, the
relocatees in one village have different views and stick to their own views respectively and make
an appeal to the resettlement agencies at different levels many times and even ask for the
provincial govennent to resolve. Therefore, the resettlemnt program is decided to revise by
investigation and seeking the relocatees' opinions, i.e. the planned 11,000 people moving out
of the county are increased to 17,000 people. The arguments and disputes between the relocatees
and contractors/materials suppliers during new villages constnuion  can be resolved by the
village and town in a coordination way. The county resetlement office has been caused to settle
the problem of collectively constructed house roof leaking reflected by the few and the relocatees
are required to take the task of construction the houses if possible.
11.3.4      Interpersonal Relation and Other Aspects: It refers to the relationship between
relocatees, relocatees and village leaders, arguments and disputes raised between the relocatees
and the residents in host ares. Such problems generally are settled by the village, town and
county in a coordination way. The complains hereon account for 10-20% of all complains.
Page 118



In fact, in order to reduce the relocatees' complains to the minimum, during the resettlement,
a plenty of deep and careful work has been conducted by the resettlement agencies at various
levels. In order to standardize the complain record and solution in the future, the table will be
made to issue to the resettlement agencies at various levels, including declarant and his village,
reflected problem, appeal time, solution department, details and date, evaluation and recording
person, etc. See table 10-2 for the format.
Page 119



Table 11-1                      Relocatees' Visit to Henna Provincial Resettlement Office in 1995
Agency  Times                         Description                                            Result
Xin'an   12      (1)8 times for reflecting opinions on resettlement location,  (I)resettlement program is decided, (2) residential sites
(2)one for construction quality, (3) 2 times for physical    problems have been required to settle by the county, (3)
indicesi survey, (4) one for land allocation of the host area  to be implemented, (4) is settled by the Xin'an county
Jiyuan    I      opinions on land allocation in the host area          The county has been notified to handle
Mengiin  0
Total    13
Relocatees' Visit to Henna Provincial Resettlement Office in 1996
-    ~    _ =                        
Agency   Times                            Description                                           Result
Xin'an    39      resettlement location, becoming an official teacher from local   Resettlement program has been decided,
people run school teacher (few), low compensation standard    becoming an official teacher is to be settled,
for individual houses and cave dwellings, wrong and failure  wrong and failure registration and compensation
registrations for objects; low compensation for jointly-run  method have been reported to YRWHDCRO,
enterprise property and its assignment method, low cost for  allowance for school construction is settled
construction preliminary and middle schools, bad quality of    temporarily, the problem of new village
few new villages' houses, e.g. roof leaking              construction is to be settled by the county
Jiyuan    I        becoming an official teacher from local people run school  to be decided after consultation with the education
teacher (few)                                            commission and plan commission
Mengjin  2         Ditto                                                    Ditto
Total     42
Page 120



Table 11-2
Relocatees' Grievances Registration
No.
Declarant                 Declarant's              Appeal Time
Name                      Village and
Occupation                T                        Recording
Person
Description
Acceptance                             Acceptanc                 Time
Unit                                   e Person                        (date)
Opinions on
Solution
Attitude of
Declarant
on solution
Page 121



12.   Training
12.1 Resettlement Officials Training
YRWHDCRO prepared Training Plan for Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project in 1994 in order
to make the training well. There are 33 classes for the resenlement staff training, involving
1082 man times, with focus on resettlement project management, implementation plan
preparation, plan management, financial management, procurement of construction materials
and equipment, contract management, project monitoring, information management, cost
control, resettlement implementation, financial planning, and cost estimate. The training
method includes the lectures by leaders and experts, the technical training lessons in colleges
and universities, concluding and exchanging experience, visiting other resettlement projects,
training on job and visiting and training overseas. The Training Management Method for
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project (draft) are also prepared.
Up to the end of 1996, YRWHDCRO, provincial, municipal and county resettlement offices
have undertaken 18 times training with 1328 people involved (excluding that municipal and
county resettlement offices visited other resettlement projects, see table 12-1), which is more
than that in the plan. With the resettlement advancing, the range and extension of the training
will be expended. The training progress is shown in attached table. Oversea training has been
conducted twice, one in America, one in Canada, 19 people involved in total, to exchange
experience in resettlement management and implementation, etc., and related report was
prepared.
In the future, while the training on resettlement officials above county level is carried out,
the attention is also paid to the training on the village resettlement officials, especially the
village leaders, because they are directly responsible for the decision and implementation of
the plan for villages' livelihoods development, arrangement for house construction and social
adjustment, etc..
12.2 Relocatees' Training
It is the key measure for Xiaolangdi resettlement to train relocatees and improve their self-
development capacity. Therefore, the relocatees' training plan was worked out in 1994 and
special training officials were organized to prepare some of teaching materials. The
rmlocatees' training has been conducted 9 times with 1370 people involved. See table 12-2
for details.
12.3 Training Plan
In 1997, 6 classes for resettlement staff will be conducted with 330 people involved, of
which, 2 times oversea training with 30 people involved. The training on relocatees' skills
will involve 5300 people. See 12-3 for details.
Page 122



Table 12-1      XLD Resettlement Project Training Plan Implementation
Training Type                                  Description                    Organizer    Tinie                  Location      Class  People  Reimarks
Cosi & Finance   XLD Resettlement Cost Control Method         Henan PRO      Dec. 1992 (7 days)     Zhengzhou    1        50
Cost & Finance   Accounting Law, Account Practice, Cost Control  Henan PRO   Oct. 1993 (10 days)     Luoyang      l       72
Resettlement                  Method
OIliciaI%_ 
Ohlicials    Cost & Finance   WB Reimbursement Method                       Henan PRO      Nov. 1994 (4 days)     Jiyuan        l      40
T rainimiig  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Implementation   Theory, Method and Preparation of            YRWHDCRO   Aug. 17, 1994 (8 days)  Zhetigzhou    I          40
Planning        Implementation Planning
Preparation
Implementation   lImplementation Planning Preparation Outline and   Henan PRO  Sep. 21. 1994 (5 days)   Luoyang   1       60
Planinlg        Technical Retquirements, Industrial and Mineral
Preparation     Enterprises Relocation and Construction
Plaining, Cost Estihate Preparation and Planning
Outline
Project         Resettlement Regulations, Resettlement        Shanxi PRO     Dec. 23. 1994 (6 days)  Pinglu,      I       65
Management      Management Method and Making out Provincial-                                         Shanxi
level Related Regulations ror XLD Reservoir
Physical Indices  Physical Indices Investigation Outline (contents,   Henan PRO  March, 1993                      5       500     5 counties in
Investigation   method and requirements)                                                                                          atlected area
Physical Indices  Physical Indices Investigation (Details) and  Shanxi PRO   Aug.5. 1994 (4 days)    Yuanqu       I       110
Investigati(o    Recheck Outline
inplementation   How to Prepare the Planning Design for       Shanxi PRO     April, 1995 (3 days)    Yuncheng     I       30
Planning        Itiplementation Phases
Design
Management      Basic Statistics Theory. Management Information   YRWHDCRO   March, 1995 (6 days)    Zhengzhou    I       35
Informatioti    System
Statistics
Page 123



Financial       Basic Theory and Method of Financial Statistics   Hlenan PRO  Feb. 1995 (5 days)    Luoyang       1      20
Statistics
Impleimeitation   Implementation Planning Preparation         Henan PRO      March. 1995 (3 days)    Luoyang      I       110
Planning        Requirements and Technology
Preparation
Implementation   Research on Phase If Inundatin Treatment and    YRWHDCRO   March. 1996 (5 days)    Zhengzhou    l       40
Planning and    Resettlement Plaining Implementation Details for
Design          the Impleimentation Design Stage
Financial       Financial Management Method. Financial        Henan PRO      May, 1995 (5 days)     Mengjin       I      50
Managemilent    Management Accounting Method and
Resettlement Account Practice
Financial       Ditto                                         Shanxi PRO     March 15. 1996 (5      Yuncheng    I _I
Maitagement                                                                  days)
Implemcittatkon   Implementation Planning Preparation Outline and   Shanxi PRO  Aug. 21. 1996 (9 days)  Three     1      28       Pinglu. Xiaxian
Plamnling       Technical Requirements                                                              Counties in                   and Yuanqu
Preparation                                                                                         the                           Counties
Reservoir
area
Project         Plan Preparation, Contract Management and     Shanxi PRO     Aug. 16. 1996 (3 days)  Yuncheng    I       16
Implementation   Related Capital Construction Management
Procedures
Resettlement    XLD Resettlement Implementation Management   YRWHDCRO   June 17, 1996 (5 days)   Zhengzhou    I          51
Monitoring      Method. Resettlenment Works' Monitoring
Program. Phase I Resettlement Planning for the
Reservoir Area
Page 124



Table 12-2    Training Plan Implementation of the XLD Resettlement Project
Training Type                   Description            Organizer         Timne        Location      Duration   People   Remarks
Resettlement    Resettlement laws and Regulations    Yuanqu County    April 15,    Yuanqu      I         ISO
Laws and        and Resettlement Planning        Ro, Shanxi        1994 (3
Regulations                                                        days)
Aquaculture     Raising Fishes in Pond, Net Cage.   Yuncheng       October,     Yuncheng       I         20
Relocatees'                                                   Prefecture RO,    1994 (7
Training                                                      Shanxi            days)
Resettlement    Special Cost Management and Use,   Yuanqu County    Nov. 1994   Yuanqu         l         20
Finance         Completion Method of Financial   RO, Shanxi        (3 days
Statements
Forestry and    Apple Trees Planting, Management   Yuncheng        Nov. 1994   Yuncheng        I         35
Orchards        and Storage                      Prefecture RO,    (10 days)
Shanxi
Trees and       Fruit Trees Planting and         Mengjin County    April, 1995   Mengjin       I         25
Fruits and      Management                       RO, Henan         (7 days)
Vegetables
Trees, Fruits    Plastic Green Booth             Mengiin County    Sep., 1994   Matuixiang     l         20
and Vegetables                                   RO, Henan         (20 days)
Planting        Wheat Planting Technologies and  Yuanyang County  Sep., 1995   Yuanyang        I         20
Technologies    Management                       RO, Henan         (2 days)
Planting        Rice Planting Technologies and   Yuanyang County  June, 1996   New Xinyang               450
Technologies    Managemnent                      RO                             Village
Emnploymnent    Electrical Technologies          Yima City RO      June-Oct.,   Power Plant              300      Luoyang and
1996                                          Xin'an Power
Plants
Page 125



Table 12-3   Training Implementation Plan for XLD Resettlement Project in 1997
:~~~~                                                                                                         =
TmNm  Types                                  Oqam"               T.               Dunion         Loco,,           Pee          Cost      Rcebks
I tsanlemen  Staff                                                                10                              360
(1) Techacil Tnmn                                                                                                 330
Pm9     a nw,"                               YRWHDCRO           Mrh .1997                        Zheapbo.         60
I         ioasnpl anrnq M:PMio               YRWHDCRO           May. 1995         20             Zbengpha         50=
l*n  _Mp.                                    P, eil RO 9        Ail. IW7           15                             tO
f_mni t numpemm                              Pro.i.il RO        July. 1997        20                              e0
cawcn  n      _3ae.A                         Pro.ieist RO       Sep.. 1997        10                              60
iuarmuo    mimonm                            YRWHCDRO           Nm,. 997          8              Zhenplhu         40
(2) Owrsm  Trining                                                                                                30
p9c1   Ieu                                   YRWHDCRO           April. 1994       70                              5
Tennl     i        aion                      YRWHDCRO           Ont. 1997         20                              23
11 Relo                                                                                                           5300          =
Il I numbsk                                   CwunyfRO                                                             1600
ATe CifS Sapes O12 Cetn)                    CeamyRO                               4              pron; atected
_eumies
hena (8)                                     Caray RO                                            dia              tOW
9msai (4)                                    CeumY RO                                           dum              200
S. Irriplad 1101                                                                  5              diuo
He| n (7)                                    Comuy RO                                            dino             350
|   hgi 3)                                   Ceuay RO                                            dm0                W            =
C. Dy lOnd (ll)                              Cenny RO                             5
Hek  tS)                                     Cewy RO                                             dio              400
umai 01)                                     Couy RO                                             dno               M0D
(2) SidLirn                                                                                                      NM
D. Fe,. Tm. MaIpJwm  tl2)                                                         10             dim
kn n (a)                                                                                         diu              4_
SIM  (4)                                                                          7              d uo              CD
E. Auw12)w (12)                                                                                  dim
lIe,.410)                                                                         5                                S00
SImu  (2l)                                                                                        dimo             M
F. Domresc Encmmy 0I8)                                                                           dino
Woin (151,                                                                                                         750           =7
Shnxi OI)                                                                                                          7S0
G. Da1.V4 ((6)                                                                                                     SW
G) Seocd EALt.1161                                                                                                 go
HIem.. (141                                                                                                        719
Hen n 12)u                                                                                                         700
IJI (numaies                                                                                                                             byv Ih em  s,p
Page 126



pW
*2R
l It
I,F     1



a.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Village Construction Magou
;PW    -25



Village Construction Shiwin
'   t-.'  ,.'''                    "~~¾', ,5,



~~~~~~~- -
Village Construction Wen Xian Yandong
A    t   L_t
'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!



Industrial Township Construction in Yima Kuang Kou
''..t.S  .



Village Construction Oing He
Village Construction Huai Lin



Village Construction Huang Po
iL 
Village Construction Bei Cun
F.6.~._                               F      i- 
'I~~~~~~~~~~~k
I; :  '-          ~                          . 



School in Bangou
I1A;U i  
Ult  e           muuuur
I        |      l        |1               ||ll||n8wif 



Village Construction and Farm Land Development Lan Jiang
=        ILI     .'I                                                              etlul 
t;,w~~~~~~~~~~~~y
-d. r-                            -                             '                                                                                               .
-                         -,t -'-             '-;-_________i______'-______________-_____'___



Farm Land Development Lujia Li
Farm Land Development Zhang Ling
A_. 



Farmland Allocated to Resettlers
(Jiyuan County)
M  iL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Farmland Procured in Xinan County
t~~~~~~~~~~~            -     . - , ;r+~z;t-  S ..                
t~~~ --             *                ,,-  i  ,...a-
S.  -           - 



Resettler Farmland Procured in Jiyuan County
Resettler Farmland Procured in Jiyuan County
r.~~~~~~~~~~                      ._1 W
of~~ fitr
v_-9-w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Resettler Farmland in
Xiaolangdi New Villages
(9 months after Resettlement)
-.
c ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~- -h .- -, . -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~  -rs"t
-    _ - _ S  i -  -     -
B, *r                                                      4. .      ..
F~~~~~~~ ,'    I
S s ,    
4'~                ~~~~~~                               ~~~~~~~~ A  '7''.



Typical Resettler Housing
Built by Resettlers
Luan Li Zhuang Village
(Jiynan Citv)
Luau Li Zhuang Village
(Jiynan City)



_~~~F, F             - fe 
F~~~~~~~~~~~~  -  
j,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    ,5----     _  
*a  -.;                              - _
1-~~~~~~~~~~
a, - 
. - 



Typical Old Housing Left by Resettlers
Liu Zhuang)
New Housing Provided for Resettlers
(Liu Zhuang)        1
(1,000 people)
D -. , 'fi'',\    :LSNZ



A Township Village Enterprise Credited by
Villaaers fof using Resettlement ComnAnoation
S,. Tuan Pao - Mengj n County
(9 moifths after Compensation Palyment)
200 workers absorbed
e X N
Town & Village Enterprise. Produces Motor Vehicle
Spare Parts (X2 mil Compensation Funds were invested)
*s\ 1~~~~~2 2 
\Xta, 1 1-- v vD
ii _F, ~~~~~~~. _ w
,'    }d  _ K ; ,    ...............  '   ' '   ,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
Tow  &  ilg-nepiePoue   oo   eil
^-pare Parts Y2 mil Compesation Funds  ere invested



Resettlement Town Village Enterprise
Produces Shafts and Gears
S. Yuan Pao - Menjin County
(200 Workeral



Resettlement Town Village Enterprise
Produces Shafts and Gears
l4engj:i County
NP -
4,
*~~~~~~  *l                  ' __
MengJ~i County Resettler V±lLage
Concrete Slab Factory
C50 workers)
7ij                                  .
; -/.  ,



Resettler Women Workers
In Ceramics Factory
Jiyuan County,
(selection of the factorv was-primarily done to target women workers)
CloG workers)
m ,
_                    ~       ~             ,t              A~



