Report No. PIC4820
Project Name              China-Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project Stage II (#)
Region                    East Asia and Pacific
Sector                    Hydro / Natural Resource Management
Project ID                CNPE34081
Implementing Agency       Yellow River Water & Hydropower
Development Corp. (YRWHDC)
Ministry of Water Resources
Contact: Mr. Wang Xianru, Vice
General Manager
Xiaolangdi Site, Jiyuan City
Henan Province     P. R. China
Tel. 86 379 390 5221
Fax. 86 379 390 5247
Environmental Category    A
Date Prepared             February 14, 1997
Projected Appraisal       March 10, 1997
Projected Board Date      June 2, 1997
1.   Sector Background    The Yellow River is the second
longest water course in China and traverses nine provinces
(Qinghai, Sichuan, Gansu, Ningxia, Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi,
Shanxi, Henan, and Shandong). The catchment area accounts for
7T of China's total land area and supports the agriculture of
130 million people over a cultivated area of 12.7 million ha.
(139 of the total cultivated area of China). Some of the most
fertile and densely populated lands (2 million ha) in China
are in the lower reaches of the Yellow River mainly in Henan
and Shandong Provinces. Floods in the lower reaches have
brought severe destruction to farmlands and cities killing
thousands of people and causing billions of dollars of damage.
In addition, because of the young geomorphology of the loess
plateau, soil erosion in the mid- regions of the river has
resulted in enormous sediment being transported into the river
(1.6 billion cum per year), depositing about W of this silt in
the lower reaches of the river, which has caused the river bed
to rise 3-5 meters higher than the surrounding ground.
Historically, flood calamities in the lower reaches have
affected 12 million ha and 70 million people in the provinces
Henan, Shandong, and parts of Anhui, Hebei and Jiangsu. An
enormous effort in fighting floods has been going on in the
lower reaches for several centuries by building up the levees.
However, despite these efforts floods have caused damage three
out of every four years.
2.   Since 1955 the government has made great strides in
developing a master plan for water resources which consists of
a proposal to build 27 major dams for harnessing and
controlling the Yellow River for hydropower, irrigation,
municipal and industrial (M & I) water supply, mainly for the



upper and middle reaches of the river. The master plan also
proposes to implement comprehensive soil conservation measures
to reduce silt flowing into the river. Seven major dams (of
the 27 planned) have been built across the river.
3.   The upper reaches of the river, which contribute 60t of
the water resources, are now fairly well regulated. However
for the lower reaches the only dam constructed (Sanmenxia) has
had to be modified (resulting in only partial regulation of
flood waters) to cope with large volumes of silt which filled
the reservoir area within two years after its completion. The
lower reaches of the Yellow River are currently protected only
by flood levees. These have to be raised every 10 years at a
cost of about $2 billion each time, and have to be maintained
every year at a cost of $100 million. The levees at present
do not provide adequate protection for the 103 million people
below them, some key cities (Zhengzhou, Kaifeng, Xinxiang,
Jinan, Heze, Liaochang, Dezhou, and Jining) and vital
industries like the Shangli and Zhongyuan oilfields which
produce about one fourth of the crude oil for China. In
addition, because of the lack of regulation of water in the
lower reaches, adequate irrigation water is available only
once every three years, as against possible perennial
irrigation for about 1 million hectares, and water supplies
for cities (Beijing, Tianjin, Qingdao, Zhengzhou, Kaifeng,
etc.) and for industries is very limited. Several cities such
as Qingdao have to shut industries several hours every day
because of lack of water. In order to solve some of these
problems, the master plan recommends that the most cost
effective solution will be the construction of Xiaolangdi Dam
near Zhengzhou in Henan
4. Project Objectives The objectives of the project are:
to provide flood protection for 103 million people in the
North China Plain in rural areas, several large and medium
cities and major industrial centers; to control sediment
accretion in the lower reach of the Yellow River for a period
of about 20 years; to generate much needed hydropower; and to
supply irrigation water (and increase the reliability of
irrigation) for some 2 million hectares and ensure more stable
water supplies for downstream cities and industries.
5.   Project Scope   The project will finance the second stage
in the construction of a dam and hydroelectric power plant on
the Yellow River. The first stage, which consisted of the
Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project and the associated
Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project, was approved by the Bank
Board in April 1994. The main features of the Xiaolangdi
Multipurpose Project are (a) _a rockfill dam, 154 m high, with
a crest length of 1,370_m; (b) a common intake structure,
feeding nine large-diameter tunnels and a surface spillway for
river diversion, flood handling and sediment management; and
(c) a power station with six power tunnels with turbine and
generators with an installed capacity of 1,800 MW (6 x
300_MW). Civil works have been under construction since 1994
-2 -



under three contracts awarded following international
competitive bidding procurement procedures. The contracts have
an estimated total value to completion of US$883.2 million
equivalent and the first-stage World Bank loan (Ln. 3727-CHA)
financed US$386 million of this amount. The proposed second-
stage project will provide Bank funding for (a) completion of
the civil works contracts; (b) training in operation and
maintenance (O&M)of the dam, powerhouse and related
facilities; (c) planning and personnel training for operation
of the project in the interests of flood control, sediment
management, irrigation and water supply; and (d) creation of
a flood forecasting system including training and equipment.
As reviewed below, the implementation of stages 1 and 2 of
the dam project will entail the resettlement of 200,000
people, which has been supported under a separate project.
6.   Project Cost and Financing      The total costs of the
project are estimated to be $2,522 million equivalent, of
which $1,140 million (45 percent) represents the foreign
exchange component. These estimates exclude the costs of the
resettlement program, totaling $821 million, financed under a
separate project. The project base costs are in January
1997.   Project financing would be provided as follows: $1,208
million from government contribution, $286 million from local
bank loans, $138 million from export credit and $460 million
and $430 million from the first and second Bank loans.
7.   Implementation       The project implementation period is
5 years (1997-2001). The Ministry of Water Resource (MWR) has
overall responsibility for implementing the Xiaolangdi
Project. A Central Project Leading Group, established under
the leadership of the State Council consisting of a vice-
minister of MWR and directors from the Ministry of Finance,
the State Planning Commission, and Vice Governors of Henan and
Shanxi Provinces, to oversee project management, resolve
policy matters and solve interdepartmental/interagency
problems.
8.   Project Execution:   The executing agency for implementing
the project is the Yellow River Water and Hydropower
Development Corporation (YRWHDC). YRWHDC has appointed an
independent engineer Xiaolangdi Engineering Consulting Company
(XECC) to be responsible for construction supervision of the
project. YRWHDC will coordinate with the provincial Project
Management Offices of Henan and Shanxi Provinces on matters
relating to resettlement and land acquisition. YRWHDC is a
state-owned enterprise whose main function is to build,
operate and maintain the dam and power station. The general
manager of YRWHDC reports to MWR. These organizations have
performed well in implementing the first-stage project and
will remain in place for the proposed second-stage project.
9.   Project Sustainability      The design of the dam is based
on similar upstream dams functioning under large silt loads,
-3 -



and the designs have been tested by prototype technical
studies. The safety factors used were conservative. The
sustainability of technical operation of the project is
therefore as certain as possible, given state-of-the-art
technology in design of large dams. Project charges for power
and water supply needed to recover the capital costs and to
finance operation and maintenance are not excessive, making
financial sustainability reasonably certain.
10.  Environmental Aspects     This project is classified as a
category A project requiring a full environmental impact
assessment (EIA). An EIA covering both stage 1 and stage 2
was carried out in 1993 by the Reconnaissance Planning and
Design Institute (RPDI) with assistance of 20 design
institutes for different aspects of the project and from
international consultants.    A copy of the complete EIA was
sent to the Project Information Center (PIC) in March 1993.
An update of the EIA was completed in February 1997 and will
be submitted to the Board and PIC in early March 1997 prior to
appraisal departure. The major environmental threat in the
lower Yellow River region is catastrophic flooding.
Xiaolangdi Project will offer virtually complete protection in
the downstream reaches against the 1-in-1,000-year flood. Due
to the initial sediment trapping and longer-term sediment
regulation operations in Xiaolangdi, the project will also
defer dike raising and strengthening for 20 years and reduce
the magnitude of dike reconstruction thereafter.
11. The major social and environmental impact related to the
project is resettlement of 200,000 mostly rural residents to
be displaced by the reservoir. The resettlement program is
comprehensive and represents a pioneering effort in project
resettlement in China. The resettlement program is designed
to ensure that the population subject to resettlement, both
relocatees and hosts, should not only maintain current
standards of living but should share in project benefits. The
resettlement program is discussed in more detail in paras. 14-
16.
12. Three other potential environmental issues are raised by
the project: dam safety; salvage of archeological relics; and
public health and disease control. The dam has been designed
to ensure its integrity in the event of earthquakes, and the
results of detailed dam break analyses of both Sanmenxia and
Xiaolangdi have been incorporated into Xiaolangdi's design.
Offsetting plans have been developed specifically for the
salvage of cultural relics and protection of public health.
As a result of the environmental assessment of the project, an
overall Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been
developed. The EMP covers the full implementation period from
1994 to 2010.   Since the environmental impacts overlap with
the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Project, some activities of the
EMP have been incorporated into the resettlement project. The
agencies participating in the EMP and the cost and duration of
the required activities are described in the EIA summary
- 4 -



update.
13.  A Environmental Management Office (EMO), with
responsibility for monitoring all environmental protection
measures, was established in YRWHDC in June 1994. During the
past 2 1/2 years, YRWHDC has: employed an international panel
of independent experts to review and make recommendations in
respect of the EMP; maintained its EMO with competent staff in
adequate numbers and with responsibilities and functions
acceptable to the Bank to manage, coordinate and monitor the
implementation of the EMP; made sure that all activities under
the Project comply with environmental standards and guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank, including those relating to dam
safety, the preservation of archaeological relics and public
health and disease control; ensured that all necessary
measures are being taken to mitigate adverse environmental
impacts caused by the construction, and that the EMP is
implemented in a timely manner.
14.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement Aspects    The project
requires the resettlement of about 200,000 people, which is
being financed by a US$110 million IDA Credit (Cr. 2605-CHA).
The people will be moved in four stages, between 1992 and
2011. About 9,900 people were resettled in 1994 and a further
46,000 will be resettled by May 1997. The main objective of
the resettlement plan is that both resettlers and host
communities affected will not be disadvantaged by the project.
Resettled families are being established in a new location
where the house, yard and amenities will be at least as good
as the family's previous situation; the family's new earning
potential will be at least as good as previously; and the
family's expenses and loss in income in making the transition
will be duly recognized and accounted and compensated for.
These objectives will be achieved by provision of investment
funds and technical assistance for economic development,
housing, amenities and public services, and social and
cultural effects.
15. Several socio-economic surveys have been undertaken
during the past 2 1/2 years to track the welfare of resettlers
after resettlement. In aost all cases, more than 95t of
resettlers were very satisfied with the resettlement process.
These surveys indicate that incomes have risen quite
dramatically, from Y485 per capita in 1993 to Y1,104 per
capita in 1995 (see table below).
Income Y        Number of Families             Number of Families
before resettlement            after resettlement
<300                   35                42.7             19           23.2
300-500                20                24.2             11           13.4
500-800                16                19.5             15           18.3
800-1000               3                  3.7             10           12.2
>1000                  8                  9.8             27           32.9
-5 -



16.  Project Benefits     The primary motivation for the
Xiaolangdi multipurpose reservoir project is flood and
sediment control. Xiaolangdi reserves 4.1 billion m3 of long-
term reservoir storage for major flood control in the wet
season, and, in the dry season, 2 billion m3 for downstream
ice management. In the first 20 years of Xiaolangdi's
operation, 7.5 billion m3 of coarse sediment can be trapped in
reservoir dead storage, and, after the reservoir reaches long-
run equilibrium, it can be operated so as to pass floods (with
the exception of major floods) and their sediment loads,
together with all of the sediment accumulated during the
nonflood season, through the reservoir and the lower reach.
Secondary benefits of the project are substantial, primarily
from power generation and irrigation. The discounted
incremental economic benefits of the project at full
development include Y 8,737 million for flood control, Y 4,170
million for sediment control, Y 5,700 million for power
generation, and Y 21,236 million for improved irrigation. The
present value of the economic benefits of the project,
discounted at 12 percent to the present, is Y 39,8439 million
($4,800 million). The economic rate of return is 23
percent.
17. There are also significant social and environmental
project benefits. In particular, flood control will
substantially reduce the risk of loss of life in the case of
a major dike breach. Xiaolangdi's control of sediment
deposition also reduces the risk of dike failure. Finally,
Xiaolangdi's operation will substantially reduce the social
and environmental risks attendant on uncontrolled flooding and
diversion of a substantial portion of the total Yellow River
flow over a new course perhaps 800 km to the sea.
18. Program Objective Categories: (a) Natural Resource
Management: The project will protect a vast area in the
lower Yellow River Reach from floods. It will also
stabilize the greatest regional water deficit in China
today, which has resulted in massive lowering of water
tables and depletion of rivers, some beyond the possibility
of recovery. The project will also stabilize the Yellow
River siltation in the river bed for a period for 20- years
during which period the soil conservation measures can take
effect. (b) Removing Infrastructure Bottlenecks: Regional
water shortages is a critical constraint to future
agriculture and industrial development. The project would
significantly assist in breaking that bottleneck. In
addition, the project would support the Government in its
ongoing efforts to carry out policy and regulatory reforms
in the water sector.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
- 6 -



Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 14, 1997.
- 7 -



