Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4200 CHA
Project Agreement
(Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project:  Stage II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
YELLOW RIVER WATER AND HYDROPOWER
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated September 11, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4200 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and YELLOW RIVER WATER AND HYDROPOWER 
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (YRWHDC).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower a loan in two currency tranches, one in dollars in an amount equal to 
two hundred thirty million dollars ($230,000,000), the other in Deutsche Mark in an 
amount equal to three hundred forty-six million five hundred thousand Deutsche Mark 
(DEM 346,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but 
only on condition that YRWHDC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and YRWHDC, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
will be relent to YRWHDC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS, YRWHDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) YRWHDC declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts A through C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, economic, engineering and public utility 
practices and sound health, safety and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and YRWHDC shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall carry out the 
actions set forth in the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement in order to ensure the proper carrying out of Parts A through C of the 
Project and the achievement of the Project’s objectives.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A through C of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) YRWHDC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Parts A through C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, YRWHDC shall:  (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower for consolidation and forwarding to the Bank 
pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement, a plan for the future operation of 
Parts A through C of the Project; and (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with YRWHDC on said plan.
Section 2.04. YRWHDC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) YRWHDC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A through C of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
YRWHDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A through C of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by YRWHDC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of YRWHDC
Section 3.01. YRWHDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices and sound health, safety and environmental standards, under the supervision 
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
Page  3
numbers.
Section 3.02. YRWHDC shall: (a) at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices and sound health, safety and 
environmental standards; and (b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not dispose 
of any of its assets necessary for the implementation of the Project or operation of 
the Xiaolangdi Dam.
Section 3.03. YRWHDC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) YRWHDC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
YRWHDC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year:
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so 
audited; and
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall produce 
(i) for each of its Fiscal Years 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than 1.2 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of YRWHDC in such Fiscal Year on all debt of YRWHDC, and (ii) for each of 
its Fiscal Years thereafter, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 
1.6 times the estimated debt service requirements of YRWHDC in such Fiscal Year on all 
debt of YRWHDC.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, YRWHDC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its 
completion.  If any such review shows that YRWHDC would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) above for the Fiscal Years covered by such review, YRWHDC shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments to 
the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between:  
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
Page  4
construction, net 
non-operating income and any reduction 
in working capital other than 
cash; and 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes (excluding 
provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all 
cash dividends and other cash distributions 
of surplus, increase 
in working capital other than cash and other cash 
outflows 
other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:  
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(iii)
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and 
current 
liabilities at the end of each 
Fiscal Year. 
(iv)
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
12 months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories 
and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the 
next Fiscal Year. 
(v)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within 12 months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and dividends. 
(vi)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vii)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of YRWHDC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(viii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:  
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and 
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into. 
(ix)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, 
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall earn:  
(i)
for each of its Fiscal Years 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007, an annual 
return of 
not less than 2% of the average current net value of its 
fixed assets in 
operation; and 
Page  5
(ii)
for each of its Fiscal Years thereafter, an annual return of not 
less than 5% 
of the average current net value of its fixed assets in 
operation.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, YRWHDC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year 
and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.  If any such review shows that YRWHDC would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for its Fiscal Years covered 
by such review, YRWHDC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet 
such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing YRWHDC’s net 
income for the 
Fiscal Year in question by one half of the sum of the 
current net value of 
YRWHDC’s fixed assets in operation at 
the beginning and at the end of that 
Fiscal Year. 
(ii)
The term “net operating income” means total operation revenues 
less total 
operating expenses. 
(iii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations. 
(iv)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of 
not less than 2% per annum of the 
average current gross value of YRWHDC’s 
fixed assets in 
operation, or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but 
excluding interest and other charges on debt. 
(v)
The average current gross value of YRWHDC’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be 
calculated as 1/2 of the sum of the gross value of 
its fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the 
end of the Fiscal Year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with 
sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to 
the Bank.
(vi)
The term “current net value of YRWHDC’s fixed assets in operation” 
means the 
gross value of YRWHDC’s fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time 
in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall earn:  
(i)
for each of its Fiscal Years 2001 and 2002, an annual return of 
not less than 
5% of the average current net value of its fixed 
assets in operation 
attributable to power operations; and 
(ii)
for each of its Fiscal Years thereafter, an annual return of not 
less than 10% 
of the average current net value of its fixed assets 
in operation attributable 
to power operations.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, YRWHDC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year 
and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such 
review upon its completion.  If any such review shows that YRWHDC would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for its Fiscal Years covered 
by such review, YRWHDC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet 
Page  6
such requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing YRWHDC’s net 
income for the 
Fiscal Year in question by one half of the sum of the 
current net value of 
YRWHDC’s fixed assets in operation 
attributable to power operations at the 
beginning and at the 
end of that Fiscal Year. 
(ii)
The term “net operating income” means total operation revenues 
less total 
operating expenses. 
(iii)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to 
power operations. 
(iv)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to 
power 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a 
rate of not less than 2% per annum of the 
average current gross value of 
YRWHDC’s fixed assets in 
operation attributable to power operations, or other 
basis acceptable to 
the Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on 
debt. 
(v)
The average current gross value of YRWHDC’s fixed assets in 
operation 
attributable to power operations shall be calculated 
as 1/2 of the sum of the 
gross value of its fixed assets in operation 
attributable to power operations 
at the beginning and at the end of the 
Fiscal Year, as valued from time to 
time in accordance with 
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory 
to the Bank.
(vi)
The term “current net value of YRWHDC’s fixed assets in operation” 
means the 
gross value of YRWHDC’s fixed assets in operation 
attributable to power 
operations less the amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to 
time in accordance 
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.05.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, YRWHDC shall 
maintain, during its Fiscal Year 2001, and during each of its Fiscal Years thereafter, 
a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, YRWHDC shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of such year 
and the following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion. If any such review shows that YRWHDC would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section for its Fiscal Years covered 
by such review, YRWHDC shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within 12 months, 
including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories, and 
pre-paid expenses properly 
chargeable to operating expenses within 
the next Fiscal Year. 
(ii)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could, under circumstances then existing, 
be called for payment 
within 12 months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
Page  7
(iii)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt. 
(iv)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.06. (a) YRWHDC shall maintain a deposit account with a bank acceptable 
to the Bank and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (including appropriate 
protection against set off, seizure and attachment) into which it shall deposit out of 
its net cash earnings from operations such amounts as will enable it to maintain a 
balance in said account at all times, except during periods of Low Hydrology, of at 
least 15% of its Annual Cash Requirements.  YRWHDC shall use said amounts exclusively 
to cover its Annual Cash Requirements during periods of Low Hydrology.
(b)
For purposes of this Section: 
(i)
The term “Annual Cash Requirements” means for any Fiscal Year, a 
reasonable 
forecast of YRWHDC’s cash requirements for operations and 
debt service for 
said year, determined on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and 
(ii)
The term “period of Low Hydrology” means any period during which 
the water 
flows of the Yellow River into the Xiaolangdi Dam are 
lower than the water 
flows into said dam during the type of 
drought that is expected to occur not 
more than once every twenty 
years.
Section 4.07.  (a) In furtherance of its policy to recover the recurrent costs 
of operation and maintenance of the Xiaolangdi Dam and the capital costs thereof from 
the users of the water supplied from said dam, taking into account the need to provide 
incentives to encourage the efficient use of water and to relate the charges on the 
users thereof to their ability to pay and income levels, YRWHDC shall, immediately 
upon commissioning of the Xiaolangdi Dam, charge and collect from all said users, 
water tariffs sufficient to recover:  
(i)
the costs of operation and maintenance of said dam in full as they 
are incurred; 
and 
(ii)
the capital costs of said dam in full not later than December 31, 
2014.  To 
this end, YRWHDC shall prepare and not later than December 
31, 1999, furnish 
to the Bank for its review, the proposed schedule of 
such water tariffs to be 
charged and collected, together with any 
explanatory information pertaining 
thereto that the Bank may 
reasonably request, and thereafter implement said 
schedule, taking 
into account the comments of the Bank on the matter.
(b)
YRWHDC shall review and adjust said water tariffs in consultation with 
the Bank, at intervals not exceeding three years each, so as to continue to give 
effect to the provisions of paragraph (a) above.
Section 4.08. YRWHDC shall carry out a program acceptable to the Bank designed 
to achieve by the twelfth calendar year of operation of the Xiaolangdi Dam a rate of 
collection of water tariffs charged by YRWHDC of not less than 85%.
Section 4.09. The provisions of Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the Xiaolangdi I 
Project Agreement are amended to read as set forth, respectively, in Sections 4.02, 
4.06, 4.07 and 4.08 of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; 
Page  8
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of YRWHDC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify YRWHDC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For YRWHDC:
Yellow River Water and Hydropower
  Development Corporation
11 Jinshui Road
45003 Zhengzhou
Henan, People's Republic of China
Telex:
460127 YRWHDC
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of YRWHDC may be 
taken or executed by its General Manager or such other person or persons as said 
General Manager shall designate in writing, and YRWHDC shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
YELLOW RIVER WATER AND
  HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for (i) goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $400,000 equivalent or more each and (ii) works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  10
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Mechanical gate bearings which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a 
limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000, or more, and (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part A of the Project for claims management shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part A of the Project for construction supervision may, with the 
Page  11
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project, YRWHDC shall 
maintain at all times throughout the period of Project implementation, the following 
offices with terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank: 
1.
a Project management office to be responsible for the supervision of Parts A 
through C of the Project, including procurement of goods and services and monitoring 
and evaluation of the progress of said Parts of the Project; and 
2.
one environmental management office at the Xiaolangdi Dam site, to be 
responsible for coordination and supervision of the environmental management plan 
included in Part C of the Project, as it relates to the impact of dam construction, 
and a separate environmental management office, to be responsible for coordination and 
supervision of said plan as it relates to resettlement implementation. 
B.
Annual Implementation Plan 
Page  12
1.
YRWHDC shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than September 15 of each Fiscal Year, an annual action plan for 
the implementation of Parts A through C of the Project, together with a financing plan 
therefor, afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with YRWHDC on 
each said plan, and thereafter implement said plan with due diligence and efficiency, 
taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
2.
Without limitation upon the foregoing, YRWHDC shall carry out the training and 
technical assistance under Part B of the Project in accordance with a program 
acceptable to the Bank.  To this end, YRWHDC shall include in each action plan 
referred to in Section 1 of this Part B, a proposed action plan for the implementation 
of said training and technical assistance during the following Fiscal Year. 
C.
Dam Safety
In order to ensure the proper design and construction of the Xiaolangdi Dam, 
YRWHDC shall continue to employ throughout the period of Project implementation, a 
panel of independent experts whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
shall be acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for undertaking reviews, at least 
once every year, or more often, if so required, of (1) the designs and technical 
specifications of goods and works required for said dam and (2) the construction 
undertaken in respect of said dam, and for advising on technical issues that may arise 
during its construction.  YRWHDC shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, promptly upon the completion of each said review, a 
report setting forth the findings and recommendations of said panel, together with any 
revisions to the designs, technical specifications or construction indicated by said 
findings.  YRWHDC shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with YRWHDC on each such report, and shall thereafter implement the recommendations 
and introduce the revisions set forth in said report, taking into account the views of 
the Bank on the matter. 
D.
Resettlement 
1.
YRWHDC shall take all measures required on its part to ensure that all persons 
displaced as a result of the Project shall be resettled in a manner designed to 
improve the living standards and productivity of all such persons.
2.
To give effect to the provisions of Part D.1 of this Schedule:
(a)
YRWHDC shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the Resettlement 
Action Plan shall be implemented in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; 
and
(b)
without limitation upon the foregoing:  
(i)
YRWHDC shall ensure that the construction of the Xiaolangdi Dam is 
undertaken 
at a pace consistent with the pace of resettlement under the 
Resettlement 
Action Plan, and to this end, if said construction is 
four months or more 
ahead of its schedule as anticipated in 
the Resettlement Action Plan, YRWHDC 
shall make such adjustments to 
the schedule of implementation of said 
construction, consistent 
with the adjustments made by the Borrower in the 
schedule of 
resettlement pursuant to Part D.2(b) of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement, as shall be necessary to ensure the consistency of the pace of such 
construction with the pace of such resettlement;  
(ii)
YRWHDC shall ensure that the coffer dam constructed under Part A 
of the 
Project shall not be closed until the resettlement of 
persons displaced by 
said closure is completed in accordance 
with the Resettlement Action Plan; and 
(iii)
YRWHDC shall ensure that the water level of the Xiaolangdi Dam at 
no time 
rises above 265 meters unless and until the final 
resettlement arrangements 
for persons to be resettled during the last 
stage of resettlement under the 
Resettlement Action Plan shall have been 
furnished to, and approved by, the 
Bank.
E.
Environmental Management
Page  13
In order to ensure the proper implementation of the environmental management 
plan under Part C of the Project, YRWHDC shall continue to employ a panel of experts, 
with qualification, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, to be 
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of said plan, and the 
overall impact of implementation of the Project on the environment. 
F.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
YRWHDC shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Bank, the implementation of Parts A through C of the Project and the achievement of 
the Project’s objectives.  YRWHDC shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank:  (a) semi-annual reports, not later than January 
31 and July 31 of each Fiscal Year, summarizing said monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed during the preceding calendar semester and setting forth the 
measures indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities to ensure the 
continued efficient implementation of said Parts A through C and the achievement of 
its objectives during the then current calendar semester; and (b) a mid-term report, 
not later than July 31, 1999, summarizing said monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed from the inception of the Project, and setting forth any proposed measures, 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of 
the Project. 
2.
YRWHDC shall exchange views with the Bank on each said report, and shall 
thereafter, promptly take such measures in relation thereto as shall have been agreed 
between the Bank and YRWHDC. 
G.
Power Sales Contract
1.
In order to ensure the proper operation of the hydropower generation facility to 
be constructed under Part A(3) of the Project, YRWHDC shall take all measures required 
on its part to enter into a power sales contract, not later than June 30, 1999, with 
the entity responsible for electric power transmission in Henan, whereby YRWHDC shall 
undertake to sell to said entity, and said entity shall undertake to purchase from 
YRWHDC and distribute, all electricity generated by said facility under terms and 
conditions which shall be acceptable to the Bank, and which shall ensure that the 
structure and levels of the tariffs for such electricity payable by said entity shall 
be designed:  (a) to ensure an efficient supply of power from said hydropower 
generation facility; (b) to minimize the financial risk to YRWHDC of reduced supplies 
of electricity caused by low-flow hydrological conditions; and (c) to enable YRWHDC to 
comply with its financial obligations set forth in Sections 4.02 through 4.05 of this 
Agreement. 
2.
The provisions of Section 3.04 of the Xiaolangdi I Project Agreement are hereby 
amended to read as set forth in Part G.1 of this Schedule.
