Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4200 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project:  Stage II)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 11, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4200 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 1997 between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Parts A through C of the Project will be carried out by the Yellow River 
Water and Hydropower Development Corporation (YRWHDC) (as defined in Section 1.02(u) 
of this Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to YRWHDC part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in 
this Agreement; and 
(C)
the Borrower has contracted and intends to contract from other sources of 
finance (the Cofinanciers) loans and export credits in an aggregate amount equivalent 
to $109,000,000 (the Cofinance) to assist in financing part of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in agreements entered into or to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers (the Cofinancing Agreements); and 
WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
YRWHDC;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), with the modifications set forth below, constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan,  that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice 
from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
“DEM Tranche of the Loan” means the amount of the Loan specified in 
Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement. 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve month period commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31 of a calendar year. 
(d)
“Henan” means the Borrower’s Province of Henan. 
(e)
“Loan Tranche” means either the DEM Tranche of the Loan or the USD 
Tranche of the Loan. 
(f)
“MWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Water Resources, and any successor 
thereto. 
(g)
“Power Sales Contract” means the contract to be entered into between 
YRWHDC and the entity responsible for electric power transmission in Henan, pursuant 
to Part G of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, on the basis of which said entity 
will purchase from YRWHDC electric power generated by the hydropower generating 
facility to be constructed under Part A(3) of the Project.
(h)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and YRWHDC of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
Page  3
(i)
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Henan and Shanxi; and "Project 
Province” means either of the Project Provinces. 
(j)
“Resettlement Action Plan” means the Resettlement Plan as defined in 
Section 1.02(f) of the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Credit Agreement. 
(k)
“Sanmenxia Dam” means the dam and associated structures located about 130 
kilometers upstream of the Xiaolangdi Dam on the Borrower’s Yellow River. 
(l)
“Shanxi” means the Borrower’s Province of Shanxi. 
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(n)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower, acting through MWR, and YRWHDC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of, 
and Part B of Schedule 4 to, this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
“Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(o)
“USD Tranche of the Loan” means the amount of the Loan specified in 
Section 2.01(a) of this Agreement. 
(p)
“Xiaolangdi Dam” means the dam and associated structures located on the 
Yellow River, to be constructed under Part A(1) of the Project. 
(q)
“Xiaolangdi I Loan Agreement” means the Loan Agreement dated June 2, 1994 
between the Borrower and the Bank for a Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 
3727-CHA), as the same may be amended from time to time. 
(r)
“Xiaolangdi I Project Agreement” means the Project Agreement dated June 
2, 1994 between the Bank and YRWHDC for a Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 
3727-CHA), as the same may be amended from time to time. 
(s)
“Xiaolangdi Resettlement Credit Agreement” means the Development Credit 
Agreement dated June 2, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association for a Xiaolangdi 
Resettlement Project (Credit No. 2605-CHA), as the same may be amended from time to 
time. 
(t)
“YRCC” means the Yellow River Conservancy Commission, a commission 
established within MWR to be responsible for management of the water resources of the 
Yellow River.
(u)
“YRWHDC” means the Yellow River Water and Hydropower Development 
Corporation, a state owned corporation established under the laws of the Borrower and 
operating pursuant to the YRWHDC Charter. 
(v)
“YRWHDC Charter” means the charter of YRWHDC, as approved by MWR in 
April, 1993, as the same may be amended from time to time. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, the following amounts:
 (a)
an amount equal to two hundred thirty million dollars ($230,000,000) (the 
USD Tranche of the Loan); and 
(b)
an amount equal to three hundred forty-six million five hundred thousand 
Deutsche Mark (DEM 346,500,000) (the DEM Tranche of the Loan). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
Page  4
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank and on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
each Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate for said Loan Tranche plus LIBOR Total Spread 
for said Loan Tranche.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period for each Loan 
Tranche, the 
London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits 
in the Single Currency of 
said Loan Tranche for value the first day of 
such Interest Period (or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period for each Loan 
Tranche: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in 
respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include said 
Loan Tranche; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period for each Loan Tranche, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to either Loan Tranche 
other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to said Loan Tranche upon not less than 6 months’ notice 
to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of 
the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to said Loan 
Tranche.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
Page  5
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(i)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause 
YRWHDC to carry out Parts A through C 
of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, 
economic, engineering and public utility practices and 
sound health, 
safety and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and 
to 
perform all of its other obligations set forth in the Project Agreement in 
accordance with the provisions thereof, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable YRWHDC to perform 
such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance; and 
(ii)
the Borrower shall carry out Parts D and E of the Project through 
MWR with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, 
economic and administrative practices and sound 
environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services 
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take 
the actions set forth in the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement in order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 6 months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, consolidating the plan prepared and furnished by 
YRWHDC pursuant to Section 2.03(b) of the Project Agreement, designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A through 
C of the Project shall be carried out by YRWHDC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
Page  6
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
YRWHDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that YRWHDC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The YRWHDC Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of YRWHDC to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of YRWHDC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
Either party to the Power Sales Contract shall have failed to perform any 
of its respective obligations under said contract or any provision of said contract 
shall have been amended, suspended, waived, rescinded or terminated without the prior 
Page  7
approval of the Bank.
(f)
The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1998 or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Cofinance 
shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or 
(B)
the Cofinance shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and  
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
(h)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Xiaolangdi Resettlement Credit Agreement.
Section 5.02  Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any of the events specified in Sections 5.01(a), 5.01(e) and 5.01(h) of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;  
(b)
any of the events specified in Sections 5.01(c) and 5.01(d) of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in Section 5.01(g)(i)(B) of this Agreement shall 
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01(g)(ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and YRWHDC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by YRWHDC 
and is legally binding upon YRWHDC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and YRWHDC and is legally binding upon the Borrower and YRWHDC in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  8
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of each Loan Tranche to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
USD Tranche
DEM Tranche
   % of
of the Loan
of the Loan
      Expenditures
Category
     (Expressed in USD)  (Expressed in DEM)   to be Financed
(1)
Works for
206,000,000
346,500,000
) 
100% of foreign
Part A of
) 
expenditures
the Project
(2)
Goods:
) 
100% of foreign
) expenditures,
(a) for Parts   1,450,000
--
) 
100% of local
A through C
) 
expenditures
of the Project
) 
(ex-factory cost)
) 
and 75% of local
(b) for Parts   3,300,000
--
) 
expenditures
D and E of
) 
for other items
the Project
) 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
) 100%
services:
)
)
(a) for Parts  14,700,000
--
)
A and B of
)
the Project
)
)
(b) for Part
    800,000
--
)
C of the 
)
Project
)
)
(c) for Part
  1,200,000
--
)
D of the Project
)
)
(d) for Part E   400,000
--
)
of the Project
)
(4)
Training:
)
100%
)
(a) for Parts     600,000
--
)
B and C of
)
the Project
)
)
(b) for Parts   1,550,000
--
)
D and E of
)
of the Project
)
)
TOTAL
===========
===========
230,000,000
346,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
Page  10
$5,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after March 15, 1997. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent each, (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$400,000 equivalent each, (c) services under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, (d) services under 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, and (e) training, regardless of the cost thereof, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in protecting against 
floods and controlling sediment accretion in the lower reaches of the Borrower’s 
Yellow River basin, and providing hydroelectric power and ensuring a stable water 
supply for irrigation, cities and industries in this area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Xiaolangdi Dam; Power Supply
(1)
Construction of an earth and rockfill dam, with a maximum height of 154 meters, 
a crest length of about 1,667 meters and a volume of about 51 million cubic meters on 
the Yellow River at Xiaolangdi in Henan, about 130 kilometers downstream from the 
Sanmenxia Dam.
(2)
Construction and equipping of a common intake structure feeding nine 
large-diameter tunnels and a surface spillway for river diversion, flood handling and 
sediment management, discharging into a common plunge pool.
(3)
Construction and equipping of a power station with six associated power tunnels, 
housing six 300-megawatt power generating units with associated switchyards and 
transformers.
Part B:
YRWHDC Management
Strengthening YRWHDC's management capability to develop, operate and maintain 
water and hydropower projects, including the facilities included in the Project, 
through the provision of training and consultants' services in general and financial 
management.
Part C:
Environmental Management
Implementation of an environmental management plan for Part A of the Project, 
consisting of:
(1)
management of the monitoring of:  (a) the ambient environment at the 
construction site; (b) public health at the construction site and in neighboring 
communities; (c) preservation of cultural relics; (d) seismic activity; (e) downstream 
catchment hydrology and sedimentation; and (f) meteorological conditions;
(2)
carrying out of: (a) studies to develop surface and groundwater monitoring 
systems; (b) studies of reservoir ferry transport; and (c) a study of river 
geomorphology to design stabilization works; and
(3)
construction of facilities and provision of equipment required for said 
management and studies.
Part D:
Flood, Sediment, Ice and Drought Management and Reservoir Operating 
Systems
Page  11
(1)
Development and utilization of:  (a)  an integrated flood, sediment, ice and 
drought management system for the middle reaches of the Yellow River from the 
Sanmenxia Dam to the Xiaolangdi Dam and the catchment areas downstream of the 
Xiaolangdi Dam; and (b) a real-time reservoir operations system.
(2)
Provision of equipment, including computer hardware and software, and training 
and construction of facilities, all as required for the systems referred to in Part 
D(1) of this Schedule.
Part E:
Water Sector Institutional Development
Improvement of the management of the water resources of the lower reaches of the 
Yellow River through:
(1)
the development of a suitable institutional framework, structures and staffing 
for the regulation and management of said water resources, including flood, sediment, 
drought and ice management, power generation, and irrigation and urban water supply; 
(2)
the carrying out of studies, and provision of training to staff involved in 
management of said water resources, as required to develop: (a) a rational and 
efficient system for pricing of water delivered for irrigation, municipal and 
industrial uses, and for other water resources management services; and (b) coherent 
financial management systems for the agencies responsible for water resources 
management;
(3)
the upgrading and improvement of water-level measuring devices for about 100 
off-takes of the lower reaches of the Yellow River in order to measure water flows to 
agricultural, urban and industrial users; and
(4)
the provision and installation of a communications system to facilitate the 
coordination of the activities of the agencies responsible for water resources 
management.
*          *           * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
USD Tranche
    DEM Tranche
of the Loan
    of the Loan 
Date Payment Due
 (Expressed in Dollars)*
(Expressed in DEM)*
March 15 2003
4,860,000
8,915,000 
September 15, 2003
5,005,000
9,070,000 
March 15, 2004
5,155,000
9,225,000 
September 15, 2004
5,305,000
9,385,000 
March 15, 2005
5,465,000
9,545,000 
September 15, 2005
5,625,000
9,710,000 
March 15, 2006
5,795,000
9,880,000 
September 15, 2006
5,965,000
      10,050,000 
March 15, 2007
6,140,000
      10,220,000 
September 15, 2007
6,325,000
      10,400,000 
March 15, 2008
6,510,000
      10,580,000 
September 15, 2008
6,705,000
      10,760,000 
March 15, 2009
6,905,000
      10,945,000 
September 15, 2009
7,110,000
      11,135,000 
March 15, 2010
7,320,000
      11,325,000 
September 15, 2010
7,535,000
      11,525,000 
March 15, 2011
7,760,000
      11,720,000 
September 15, 2011
7,990,000
      11,925,000 
March 15, 2012
8,225,000
      12,130,000 
September 15, 2012
8,470,000
      12,340,000 
March 15, 2013
8,720,000
      12,550,000 
Page  12
September 15, 2013
8,980,000
      12,770,000 
March 15, 2014
9,245,000
      12,990,000 
September 15, 2014
9,520,000
      13,210,000 
March 15, 2015
9,805,000
      13,440,000 
September 15, 2015
      10,095,000
      13,670,000 
March 15, 2016
      10,395,000
      13,910,000 
September 15, 2016
      10,700,000
      14,150,000
March 15, 2017
      11,020,000
 
      14,390,000 
September 15, 2017
      11,350,000
      14,635,000 
_________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in the Single Currency to be 
repaid, except 
as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Institutional Arrangements
In order to ensure the proper implementation of the Project: 
1.
the Borrower shall maintain at all times throughout the period of Project 
implementation, a central Project coordinating group, headed by a Vice Minister of 
MWR, with terms of reference, composition and resources acceptable to the Bank, to be 
responsible for the overall oversight of Project management, and the resolution of 
policy issues that may arise; and
2.
the Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to maintain at all times 
throughout said period, the following structures, with terms of reference, staffing 
and resources acceptable to the Bank:
(a)
a leading group to be responsible for providing guidance at the 
provincial level on resettlement and other policy issues that may arise during Project 
implementation; and
(b)
a Project office to be responsible for oversight of land acquisition and 
resettlement within its jurisdiction. 
B.
Subsidiary Loan
1.
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to Categories (1), (2)(a), (3)(a), (3)(b) and (4)(a) to YRWHDC under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, acting through MWR, and YRWHDC, 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, which shall 
include, without limitation, the following:
(a)
The principal amount of each Loan Tranche so relent shall be the 
equivalent in terms of the currency of denomination of said Loan Tranche (determined 
as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value 
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn under said Categories, and shall be repaid 
by YRWHDC to the Borrower over a period of twenty years, inclusive of a grace period 
of five years;
(b)
YRWHDC shall pay interest on the principal amount of each Loan Tranche so 
relent, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower under said Loan Tranche pursuant to Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
YRWHDC shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of each Loan 
Tranche so relent, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of 
one percent (0.75%) per annum. 
2.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
Page  13
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
C.
Environmental Management
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Provinces to take, all 
measures required on its and their respective parts to ensure that the environmental 
management plan included in Part C of the Project shall be carried out in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank. 
D.
Resettlement 
1.
The Borrower shall take, and shall cause the Project Provinces to take, all 
measures necessary to ensure that all persons displaced as a result of the Project 
shall be resettled in a manner designed to improve the living standards and 
productivity of all such persons.
2.
To give effect to the provisions of Part D.1 of this Schedule:
(a)
the Borrower shall take and cause the Project Provinces to take all 
measures necessary to ensure that the Resettlement Action Plan shall be implemented in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
resettlement under the Resettlement Action Plan is undertaken at a pace consistent 
with the pace of construction of the Xiaolangdi Dam, and to this end, if said 
construction is four months or more ahead of its schedule as anticipated in the 
Resettlement Action Plan, the Borrower shall make or cause to be made such adjustments 
to the schedule of implementation of said resettlement, consistent with the 
adjustments made by YRWHDC in the schedule of construction of said dam pursuant to 
Part D.2(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as shall be necessary to ensure 
the consistency of the pace of such resettlement with the pace of such construction. 
3.
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory 
to the Bank, the implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan and the achievement of 
its objectives.  The Borrower shall prepare, under guidelines satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank semiannual reports not later than April 15 and September 
15 of each year, integrating the results of said monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed during the preceding six month period and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Resettlement 
Action Plan and achievement of its objectives during the following six month period, 
including any proposed revisions to said plan indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities.  The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower on each said report and shall thereafter implement 
the recommendations and introduce the revisions proposed in said report, taking into 
account the views of the Bank on the matter. 
E.
Transmission Lines
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that 220-kilovolt 
transmission lines connecting the power station constructed under the Project to 
Henan’s provincial power grid shall be constructed in accordance with an action plan 
acceptable to the Bank so as to enable power to be transmitted from said station to 
said grid, promptly upon the commissioning of said station. 
F.
Dam Safety
In order to ensure the safety of the Xiaolangdi Dam and Sanmenxia Dam and 
downstream life, property and activities, the Borrower shall, through MWR, take the 
following actions. 
1.
Operation and Maintenance and Emergency Preparedness Plans
The Borrower shall:  
(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
Page  14
the Bank not later than January 15, 1999 a plan for the operation and maintenance of 
the Xiaolangdi Dam and Sanmenxia Dam and an emergency preparedness plan for said dams; 
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plans; and 
(c) thereafter implement the same with due diligence and efficiency, taking into 
account the views of the Bank on the matter. 
2.
Periodic Inspections
The Borrower shall ensure that inspections of the Xiaolangdi Dam and Sanmenxia 
Dam and of their respective operation and maintenance shall be undertaken, in respect 
of the Xiaolangdi Dam, at intervals of not more than once a year for each of the first 
five years after its commissioning, and thereafter, once every three years and, in 
respect of the Sanmenxia Dam, at intervals of not more than once every three years, 
all in accordance with sound engineering practices and on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, by a panel of qualified and experienced independent experts, 
in order to identify any deficiencies in the condition of said dams or in the quality 
and adequacy of the maintenance or methods of operation of said dams or of their 
respective plan for emergency preparedness, which may endanger the safety of said dams 
or of downstream life, property or activities, and to rectify any such deficiencies 
promptly.  The Borrower shall ensure that said panel shall prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank, promptly upon completion of each said inspection, a report on 
the results of said inspection, together with any measures recommended to be taken to 
ensure the safety of the Xiaolangdi Dam and the Sanmenxia Dam and downstream life, 
property and activities.  The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity 
to exchange views with the Borrower on each report furnished by said panel and shall 
thereafter implement the measures recommended by said report, taking into account the 
views of the Bank on the matter. 
3.
The provisions of Section 3.04 of the Xiaolangdi I Loan Agreement are hereby 
amended to read as set forth in Parts F.1 and F.2 of this Schedule. 
G.
Parts D and E of the Project 
1.
The Borrower shall implement Parts D and E of the Project in accordance with a 
program acceptable to the Bank.  To this end, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank not later than December 15 in each Fiscal Year, commencing December 15, 
1997, a proposed action plan for the implementation of said Parts during the following 
Fiscal Year (including terms of reference and timing of the studies included in said 
Part E), and thereafter, shall carry out said action plan during said following year, 
taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
2.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part G.1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants, not later than May 15, 1998, and in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, to assist the 
Borrower in developing the management and operations systems referred to in Part D of 
the Project.
3.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part G.1 of this Schedule, under Part 
E(1) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than July 1, 1998, a plan to upgrade 
YRCC and assign to it the 
responsibility for management of flood, 
sediment, ice and drought in the lower 
Yellow River Basin; and 
(ii)
taking into account the comments of the Bank on the matter, take 
all measures 
necessary to ensure that YRCC shall be upgraded and assigned 
with said 
responsibility, not later than December 31, 1998, and 
thereafter at all times 
maintained, with terms of reference, staffing 
and other resources acceptable 
to the Bank; and
(b)
(i)
develop, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than December 31, 1998, a plan to 
Page  15
ensure the efficient (A) 
delivery of water to users of water 
flowing through the lower reaches of the 
Yellow River and (B) 
collection of water charges from users of said water; and
(ii)
implement said plan not later than June 30, 2000, taking into 
account the 
comments of the Bank on the matter. 
H.
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
The Borrower shall, through MWR: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of Parts D and E of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank:
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later than January 31 and July 31 in each 
Fiscal 
Year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation 
activities carried out by it 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above in 
respect of the preceding calendar semester, 
and setting forth proposed 
measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation 
activities, to further the objectives of the Project during the 
then current calendar semester; and
(ii)
a mid-term report, not later July 31, 1999, summarizing the 
monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out by it 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above, from 
the inception of the Project, and 
setting forth any proposed measures, 
indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the 
objectives of 
the Project; and 
(c)
exchange views with the Bank on each report furnished by the Borrower 
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, and thereafter, take all such measures, in relation 
thereto, as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. 
I.
Power Sales Contract 
The Borrower shall take all measures required on its part to facilitate the 
conclusion of the Power Sales Contract in accordance with the provisions of Part G of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4). 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$150,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  16
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: 
Page  17
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:
 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
