                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 29173




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (SCL-42000 SCL-42001)

                                            ON A

                                           LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$430 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                          TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR THE

                       XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II




                                        June 28, 2004




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective January 2004)

                    Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                       Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.12107
                         US$ 1.00 = Y 8.26



                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 -   December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AS       - Antiepidemic Station
BCM      - Billion Cubic Meters
CAS      - Country Assistance Strategy
CCPN     - Central China Power Network
CPLG     - Central Project Leading Group
CUM      - Cubic Meter
CUMEC    - Cubic Meter per Second
DRB      - Disputes Review Board
DSP      - Dam Safety Panel
EIA      - Environmental Impact Assessment
EMO      - Environmental Management Office
EMP      - Environmental Management Plan
EPMs     - Environmental Protection Measures
EPP      - Emergency Preparedness Plan
GOC      - Government of China
GWh      - Gigawatt hours
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
IDA      - International Development Association
LRM      - Lower Reach Model
MCM      - Million Cubic Meters
MWR      - Ministry of Water Resources
NCB      - National Competitive Bidding
NCPN     - North China Power Network
NCHEI    - North China Hydroelectric Institute
PAB      - Provincial Audit Bureau
PAD      - Project Appraisal Document
POE      - The International Panel of Experts on Environment and Resettlement
PRO      - Provincial Resettlement Office
QAG      - Quality Assurance Group
RPDI     - Reconnaissance Planning and Design Institute
SAA      - State Audit Administration
SBD      - Standard Bidding Document
SEPA     - State Environment Protection Administration
SOE      - Statement of Expenditures
WRPI     - Water Resources Protection Institute
XECC     - Xiaolangdi Engineering Consulting Company

XLD       - Xiaolangdi Project
YRCC      - Yellow River Conservancy Commission
YRCCRO    - Yellow River Conservancy Commission Resettlement Office
YRCHU     - Yellow River Central Hospital Unit
YRWHDC    - Yellow River Water and Hydropower Development Corporation
YRWHIDCRO - YRWHDC Resettlement Office




                  Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kasum
                Country Director:    Yukon Huang
                 Sector Director:    Mark D. Wilson
              Task Team Leader:      Xiaokai Li

                                            CHINA
                 XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT: STAGE II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               20
6. Sustainability                                                                   23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    25
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  26
9. Partner Comments                                                                 28
10. Additional Information                                                          38
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                45
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                49
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                51
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                53
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   54
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               55
Annex 8 . Compliance with Loan Covenants                                            58
Annex 9 . Operation and Maintenance Plan and Emergency Preparedness Plan Summary    59
Annex 10. Loan Allocation and Disbursements                                         64

Project ID: P034081                                                  Project Name: CN - XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II
Team Leader: Xiaokai Li                                              TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN - XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-42000; SCL-42001
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (98%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Water resource management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/28/1997                                     Effective: 10/31/1997                01/12/1998
     Appraisal: 02/28/1997                                         MTR: 07/31/1999                  06/11/2002
      Approval: 06/24/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/YELLOW RIVER COMM.
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Yukon Huang
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Xiaokai Li                                     Daniel Gunaratnam
ICR Primary Author:             Daniel Gunaratnam


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were: A. to provide flood protection for 103 million people in the North China
Plain in rural areas, B. to control sediment accretion in the lower reach of the Yellow River for a period of
about 20 years; C. supply water to several large and medium cities and major industrial centers, cities and
industries; D. to supply irrigation water (and increase the reliability of irrigation) for some 2 million
hectares and ensure more stable water supplies for downstream and E. to generate much needed
hydropower to meet the peak power requirements in the Henan Grid.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The above objectives remained relevant through out the entire project.

3.3 Original Components:
The total Xiaolangdi multipurpose investment was supported by the Bank in two project stages. This
report is concerned with the second stage project. (Stage I Project 12329-CHA). In considering the
implementation completion of this stage II project, it is logical to consider as appropriate, both stages
together, because the civil works and all other major contracts continued and were financed across both
stages. Therefore, the objectives for both stages remained primarily the same.

Project Component 1--Dam and Appurtenant Structures and Hydropower Plant, including
hydropower plant (turbine and generators), administration, engineering and consultants.                The main
features of this component were:
l construction of Xiaolangdi rock-fill dam, 154 m high, with a crest length of 1,370 m;
l construction of a common intake structure, feeding nine large diameter tunnels and surface spillway for
    river diversion, flood handling and sediment management, discharging into a common plunge pool; and
l construction of a power station with six associated power tunnels with turbine and generators with an
    installed capacity of 1,800 MW (6 x 300 MW) and associated switchyards, and transformers.

This component contained the major investment under the project and supported all five project objectives
(A-E) above. This component was completed well ahead of schedule and the quality of construction was
excellent and is therefore rated highly satisfactory

Project Component 2--Training for Operation. The main emphasis of this component was to complete
the training on construction management commenced under the previous stage 1 project and proceeded
more intensified training for the post construction, management and operation skills required by
YRWHDC. The main objectives of this component were:
l to enable YRWHDC to function as a autonomous body in the efficient development and operation of
    water and hydropower projects, and be capable of exploiting opportunities expected to arise from the
    current wave of enterprise reform in China; and
l to staff YRWHDC with appropriately skilled personnel, capable of handling the planning, general
    management, and financial management in order to run YRWHDC as a proper business enterprise.

This component supported component 1 and contributed heavily to the sustainability of the project. This
component was fully completed ahead of schedule and has therefore been rated highly satisfactory.

Project Component 3--Environmental Management Plan Implementation. A salient feature of the
environment protection program in the stage 1 project was the implementation of an Environment
Management Plan. The Plan included the setting up of an Environmental Management Office (EMO)



                                                     - 2 -

which, had the lead and coordinating responsibility for implementing all needed environmental protection
measures including:
l Management of continuing periodic monitoring for assessing the actual impact of the project;
l Planning and implementation of the needed correction measures identified through the monitoring
    program;
l Preparation of routine periodic reports (and special reports, when needed) for distribution to concerned
    Government agencies and to the Bank; and
l Long-term monitoring of the downstream river hydrology and sediment flows and deposition.


The stage II project continued the detailed monitoring through the EMO to ensure the environmental
management plan was implemented. There were five new areas of monitoring introduced:
l Construction Site Monitoring.
l Public Health.
l Seismic Monitoring
l Downstream catchment hydrology, sedimentation , etc
l Special Studies and monitoring


This component supported project sustainability, addressed one of the Bank's key safeguards areas and
added to the overall quality of completed works under component 1. It was completed ahead of schedule
and was very thoroughly performed and is being adopted as a model for other projects and is rated highly
satisfactory

Project Component 4--Flood and Sediment Forecasting and Water Dispatching System. The
objective of this component was to upgrade the old flood management system to a modern integrated MIS
for flood, drought, sediment and ice flow management and at the same time to establish modern
institutional arrangements consistent with this integrated water resource management approach.
Institutional reforms redefined the roles of the existing institutions of the YRCC for (a) data collection; (b)
data base development and management; (c) model building and operation; and operation of decision
support systems. The component also included the upgrading of existing facilities, computer networks,
and communications systems. The component was supported by both international and national technical
assistance for MIS design, modelling, training etc.

This component supported the 4 objectives A-D. The outcomes and impact go well beyond those
documented in the PAD and is therefore rated highly satisfactory.

Project Component 5--Water Institutional Reform. This component consisted of reforming the water
institutions to ensure that water management of the lower reach of the Yellow River is sustainable. In
particular, there was a separation of the primary regulatory and operational functions and rationalization
and amalgamation of both the existing functional responsibilities and the many existing institutions with
responsibilities for managing the lower Yellow River. The important issues of water pricing across sectors
and services, cost recovery and regulation were also address.

This component supported project sustainability and was successfully completed for the lower reach with a
new management structure operating on a business basis and is therefore rated satisfactory. The outcomes
were the establishment of a new agency to coordinate the Lower Yellow water distribution operations
covering two of the largest provinces in China (Henan and Shandong with over 200 million people) and the
successful agreement on water tariff reforms, involving the interplay of several government agencies and
institutions, both at GOC and provincial level.




                                                      - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The components of this project were not revised in the course of implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
1.       The Quality at Entry was independently assessed and rated by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) in 1997/1998 as highly satisfactory. The relevance of the objectives and matching of components
in support these objectives is considered to be an important part of the quality at entry. The project
objectives were consistent with GOC strategy, policy and priorities relating to flood control and
management and water shortages for urban and irrigation. Therefore, the flood control objective of the
project, including the requirements for sediment control to stabilize the lower reach of the River and to
improve the environment and the safety of the river was the main feature of the project. The other
objectives relating to water supply and irrigation stabilization were seen as very important priorities, as
part of project. The generation of hydropower was an integral part of the multipurpose nature of the
project. The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which emphasized
support to environmentally responsible infrastructure development and is consistent with the Country
Water Resources Assistance Strategy which emphasizes a combination of infrastructure development and
institutional reforms for better water resource management. In addition, and to ensure sustainable
utilization of water resources, the Government, in October 2002 issued the new national Water Law and a
series of other laws/regulations that provided a legal and policy basis for the sustainable management by
water management agencies and water projects. These clearly define the responsibility, duty, function and
role of water management agencies and provide specific measures for the long-term development of such
agencies.

2.       The components were geared to achieving the objectives and all the objectives were
component-supported. YRWHDC had adequate capacity as the implementing agency. It had built up its
administrative capacity for physical implementation through appointment of managerial staff with
successful experiences in the XLD Stage I project. Relevant lessons learned during the stage I project were
applied in the stage II project design, procurement and through continuity of experienced staffing,
supplemented by the hiring of experienced staff and consultants. The financial management capacity of
YRWHDC had been built up during the stage I project and was operating at an adequate level for stage II.
The project management arrangements set up under stage I, comprising a corporatized enterprise
(YRWHDC) rather than as a government agency where already in place and functioning at a high level.

3.       A feature of the design of the physical components was the support provided by timely and
adequate technical studies. World-class experience was tapped through a Special Panel of Consultants
throughout the design and construction process. As a result the designs were technically sound and met all
applicable safeguard policies and contributed to the quality at entry assessment. The economic and
financial analysis was established using river basin optimization models, which used a full 70 years series
of hydrologic sequences and gave a detailed picture of the possible risks under different hydrology. The
project preparation also anticipated the need for a Disputes Review Board (DRB) to resolve any disputes
that arose between the international contractors and the owner. This DRB, consisted of consultants funded
by the credit, proved to be very effective in dealing with complex contract variations and claims over the
course of civil construction.

4.        The design of the project addressed the Bank's safeguard polices for Dam Safety and the
Environment. A international panel of Dam safety experts (DSP) was established to oversee the design and
construction activities. The environmental analyses properly assessed adverse impacts and formed the
basis of a well-defined Environment Management Plan (EMPs). Based on the experience and outputs of



                                                      - 4 -

the stage I project, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was revised and upgraded and presented to
the Bank's Board. The recommendation in the EIA and PAD to split the Environmental Management
Office (EMO) into two functional areas, one for the Multipurpose Dam Project and the other for the
Resettlement Project, which proved to be most effective. Public participation mechanisms before major
decisions on environmental and resettlement issues were made, worked satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project achieved or exceeded all the objectives before the loan was closed in December, 2003. Most of
the components were completed 12-15 months ahead of schedule. Therefore, the overall outcome is rated
highly satisfactory. The main objectives of the project and achievements under each of the main
components are presented below:

Objective A: Introduce flood control in the lower reaches of the Yellow River Basin to protect major
infrastructure and 103 million people.
Achievements: Starting from year 2000, the flood protection level downstream of Xiaolangdi Dam had
been increased to 1:1000. The downstream ice flood hazards are eliminated. All the common floods, in
particular those very frequent floods that could inundate the vast flood plains where over 1.3 million people
live, are brought under control avoiding the enormous possible flood damage of the past. As an illustration
prior to the completion of the dam, the 1996 flood event caused the following: (a) 251,000 ha of land
(including 200,000ha farmland) was inundated; (b) 2.4 million people affected with 800,000 people
entrapped; (c) estimated economic losses of Y6.46 billion. Starting from 2000 this type of damage has
been avoided with the completion of the Xiaolangdi Dam. The dam is now capable of regulating the flows
of the Yellow River during the flood and dry seasons. The flood forecasting system has been significantly
enhanced and institutions are now in place to undertake flood forecasting. The reservoir is capable of
completely reducing flood losses downstream between Huayuankou (Henan) and Lijin (Shangdong), and
between Lijin and the estuary to a lesser extent. The reservoir is also capable of regulating flows so that ice
floods can be completely avoided. During the 2000 winter, ice appeared on the piers in the river in
Shandong, but there was no freezing of the river because adequate flow was released from the reservoir to
prevent it from happening.

Objective B. Sediment Control for Downstream River Channel Siltation.
Achievements: By end August 2003, a total of some 1 BCM of silt (see figure 1 below), about 14% of the
storage reserved for sediment deposit (7.55 BCM), has been trapped in Xiaolangdi reservoir preventing
siltation of downstream river course. In addition, an in-situ sediment-flushing test was conducted centered
at Xiaolangdi July 4-15, 2002, resulting in erosion of the downstream river course with some 36.2 million
tons of silt flushed into the sea. A total of 1.036 BCM of silt has been prevented from deposition in the
downstream channel of the river. This level of silt control in the 3 years of operation clearly demonstrates
that silt control by the dam is working very well. Silt control is extremely important because the river flow
capacity has decreased from 22,000 cumecs in 1958 to 7,000 cumecs in 1996 at Huayuankou. The
riverbed has been aggrading during this period and has lost 65 percent of its flow capacity. With the
Xiaolangdi dam it will be possible to recover some of these losses in capacity in the river channel because
the dam will release water to flush out the silt from time to time and also prevent further aggregation of silt
in the channel.




                                                      - 5 -

                                                    Figure 1 Sediment Trapped in Reservoir 2000-2003


                                1200



                                1000


    Resevoir                     800
            in


                                 600
              Trapped

                     Tons        400



                         Million 200



                                   0



                                     May-97  Sep-97   Jan-98  May-98  Sep-98  Jan-99  May-99   Sep-99  Jan-00  May-00  Sep-00  Jan-01  May-01   Sep-01  Jan-02  May-02  Sep-02  Jan-03   May-03




Objective C: Supply Water to several large cities and stabilize water for 2 million ha of irrigation.
Accomplishments: Since early 2000, Xiaolangdi Project has played a critical role in increasing the water
supply for each user sector in the downstream areas. The downstream provinces are now able to be
supplied with regulated water for urban and irrigation use when they most need it. In 2000 there was a
significant drought (1/ 200 year) in the downstream areas and it affected all the North China Plain, covering
some 300 million people of whom 50-70 million are urban residents. The only source of water was from
Xiaolangdi Reservoir and the Government realized the strategic importance of using the reservoir to supply
municipal and industrial water under severe drought, and consequently it has become the main objective of
the project in the dry season above generating hydropower. Some 800 MCM of water were released from
the reservoir in 2000 to supply key cities such as Tianjin to meet current demands. Table 1 for the
incremental total and M& I water supplied with project.

                                                             Table 1                PAD ICR Analysis Of Water Supplied
                                                                                    ICR Municipal and Industrial Water Supply 2020 (BCM/Yr)
                                                             without Proj                                                     with Project
                                    Henan                    Shandong Total                                  Henan            Shandong Total                                  Incremental Supply
 AVE                                        2.48                    2.74                    5.22               2.66                   2.78                    5.44                    0.22
 MAX                                        3.00                    2.82                    5.82               3.00                   3.00                    6.00                    0.18
 MIN                                        2.25                    1.70                    3.95               2.25                   2.47                    4.72                    0.77
                                                                                    ICR Agriculture Water Supplied
 AVE                                        2.33                    3.22                    5.55               1.91                   5.27                    7.18                    1.63
 MAX                                        6.98                    10.43                   16.56              8.11                  12.87                    20.98                   4.42
 MIN                                        0.53                    3.05                    3.58               0.09                   5.06                    5.15                    1.57
                                                                                    ICR Total Water Supplied
 AVE                                                4.81              5.959                 10.768                    4.57                    8.06             12.62                  1.86
 MAX                                               9.975             13.244                 22.377                   11.11                   15.86             26.97                  4.60
 MIN                                               2.784              4.742                  7.526                   2.341                   7.525             9.866                  2.34
                                                                                    PAD Municipal and Industrial Water Supply 2020 (BCM/Yr)
 AVE                                        N/A                     N/A                     4.67               N/A                    N/A                     4.78                    0.11
                                                                                    PAD Agriculture Water Supplied
 AVE                                        4.39                    8.79                    13.18              4.78                   8.95                    13.73                   0.55


It can be observed that, with the project, an average of 220 MCM increment of M & I water per annum can
be made available to cities and in a dry year up to 770 MCM will be made available.




                                                                                                                                                      - 6 -

Objective D: Supply Irrigation Water to stabilize some 2 million ha irrigation.
Achievements: For agriculture, an average of increment of 1.63 BCM/year will be made available. This
will help stabilize the irrigation water supply for some 2.0 million ha. For the 75% probability hydrologic
sequence for which all the irrigation schemes are designed, a total of 2.4 BCM (see figure 2) is made
available for irrigation. This would give 1200 cum/ha of additional water, which is crucial for stabilizing
and increasing agricultural yields. (e.g. Wheat by as much as 1.0 tons/ha).


                                           Figure 2 Additional water supplied with Project


                                        7

                                        6

     BCM/Yr                             5

           in                           4

             water                      3

                                        2

                                        1

                  Additional            0
                                         0%  10%  20%  30%   40%  50%   60%   70%   80% 90%  100%

                                                       Cumulative Probability %



The analysis based on the 90-year hydrologic record simulation shows that the incremental water supply
and grain production will increase grain production by 2.4 million tons per year respectively (see Figure 2
and 3 ).


                                               Figure 3 Incremental Grain Production


                                        3.5

                                          3

                                        2.5


                            MT/yr         2

                                        1.5

                                 Million  1

                                        0.5

                                          0
                                           0%   10%  20%   30%  40%   50%  60%   70%  80%  90%  100%

                                                           Cumulative Probability




                                                                                - 7 -

The efficiency of water use also increases because of better regulation from the reservoir. Water is
supplied at the time when plants need water. Figure 3a shows that for 1 kg of grain production, an average
of 5-6 % less water is used. Analysis shows that without the project, water use is 1.7 cum per 1 kg of grain
production. With the project the water use is 1.6 cum per kg of grain production.



                   Figure 3a. Grain Production Efficiency with and without
                                           Project


                2.1
                1.9
                1.7
     water      1.5                                                        With project
                1.3                                                        without project
                1.1
          Kg/cum0.9
                0.7
                   0%     20%    40%      60%       80%     100%

                              Cumulative Probability



Objective E: Power Generation to supply peak power to the Henan Grid.
Achievements: Power generation facilities were commissioned in January 2000, ahead of schedule.
However, due to the prevailing serious drought conditions (1:200 year), the high priority given to urban
water supply, power production was at a much lower level (30 percent) of power production for the first
year and for the three years subsequently. Yellow River flows showed a consistent decline from 1990 to
2000. Figure 4 shows a significant decline of 30% in measured and natural flows due to a long-term
drought in the 1990's. After 2003 the flows have picked up and are more normal because of a large flood in
the Wei River in 2003.




                                                     - 8 -

                    Figure 4 River Fows Upstream at Sanmenxia
                                     (1980-2000)


                   800.0

                   700.0

                   600.0

      cum          500.0

                   400.0

         million   300.0

                100200.0

                   100.0

                     0.0
                        1980   1983  1986    1989     1992   1995  1998


                                          Natural        Measured


It is expected that in normal years much more water will flow in the Yellow River such as in 2003/2004
and power production will increase to almost the appraisal levels of power production (see Table 2).


                                  Table 2    ICR and PAD Power Generation

                                    Total                  PAD 90%  PAD
                          Power                                                        % of PAD
                                   Income                    Prob  Average % of Pad
     Year               Generation               note                                 for Average
                                   ( million                 GWH    GWH    90% Prob
                         ( GWH)                                                        Condition
                                   Yuan)                    Energy Energy

     2000                  613       175         actual      1651   2275         37%         27%

     2001                  2109      566         actual      2257   3679         93%         57%

     2002                  3272      910         actual      2282   4231        143%         77%

     2003                  3690     1021         actual      2812   5115        131%         72%

     2004                  4982     1365       projection    3218   5115        155%         97%


The table shows that power production is consistent with production when probability of flow is 90%
exceedance flow (see Annex 4 Table A4.3 of the PAD).

Other Achievements:

The dam started to regulate water flows in 2000 and managed to keep water flowing in the lower reaches
with no days when the river dried up. In contrast the river dried up for up to 180 days in 1990. The
continuous flow of the Yellow River will have significant impact on the estuarial ecology. For the first time
for many centuries the water below Xiaolangdi is clear and silt free. This will significantly reduce the cost
of water treatment for urban and agricultural use. It will also enhance freshwater ecology in the river since
most freshwater fish cannot normally survive in highly silted water.




                                                           - 9 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
All components were successful completed as defined and outputs often exceeded the expectations in the
PAD.

Output: Dam, Inlet and Outlet Works, Power station (turbines and generators) including
administration, engineering and consultants (see photographs in Other Information)

Dam, Inlet and Outlet Works. All these works were completed ahead of schedule and to very good quality
of construction standards. The preliminary work involved the construction of the main access roads, pilot
tunnels for the diversion, and resettlement of the dam site resettlers. All these works were undertaken by
local contractors and were completed in June 1994 before the international contractors undertook the major
civil works for the dam, inlet and outlet works and the power station. The resettlement of 10,000 resettlers
was also completed prior to the start of the major contracts. Resettlers at the dam site were resettled in 15
new villages and the work was professionally done.

The major works on the dam, inlet and outlet construction and hydropower plant started in July 1994 by
international contractors and despite some delay due to poor geological conditions in the tunnels, all works
were completed 12-15 months ahead of schedule in 2001. The interim completion dates for the diversion of
the river in November 1997 were also maintained by the inlet and outlet works contractor. The quality of
works were exceptionally good as remarked by many senior international and Chinese experts.

The Dam Safety Panel (DSP) of experts was established in June 1994 with 8 international experts. The aim
of this panel was to review specific design and construction issues and to ensure that implementation of the
project was of the highest possible standards, using the most appropriate and up-to-date techniques. The
panel had nine meetings throughout the project design and construction phases. In the panel's 9th report
they commented on the completed works. Essentially they indicated that the dam construction quality was
satisfactory and built to a high standard; the slope in the intake and outlet were safe; the underground works
quality was satisfactory. Overall rating of this set of outputs is highly satisfactory.

Turbine and gates , generator and switchyard supply and installation . The turbines (6x 300 MW Francis
Type), and some high voltage cabling were supplied by international suppliers and all other parts
(generators (6x 330 MVA), switchyards) were all supplied by local suppliers. The turbines were funded by
export credit by USEXIM Bank. All the works as part of this component were completed by December
1999 for the first turbine to go into operation. The other five units went into operation by December 2001.
For the last 3 years the operation of the turbines, gates and generators have been very satisfactory.
Generation of power has been limited by the lack of water as stated above because of a prolong drought in
the Yellow River. Overall these activities are rated highly satisfactory.

Administration, Engineering and Consulting Services. The administration of the project was performed
by the owner Yellow River Water Hydropower Development Corporation (YRWHDC). The Engineer for
the project was Xiaolangdi Engineering Consulting Company (XECC). The Reconnaissance, Planning and
Design Institute (RPDI) of YRCC was the designer. Throughout the project design and implementation,
YRWHDC used the services of international consulting firms to assist XECC and RPDI in design,
construction management, contract administration and quality assurance. About 1200 person-months of
consulting services were contracted for the Project. All these services were financed through the Bank's
loan. This TA performed satisfactorily throughout and made a major contribution to efficient project
management.




                                                      - 10 -

The same TA services were also retained for this stage II Project and an agreement was signed in January
1998. The services covered: (i) the core advisory group providing general support and consultation on
contractual matters; (ii) the DRB; (iii) specialists in civil, underground, mechanical and electrical
engineering; (iv) establishment of a cost control system; and (v) start-up coordination during the
commissioning stage.

Since major problems were encountered with claims from the main contractor (change of ground
conditions), a specialist claims management consultant was also hired. International consultants carried out
training. YRWHDC also employed several local experts to review issues as they arose. Some 288 experts
met on 27 separate occasions to review and discuss different technical issues. Input of consultants and the
competence level of staffing are considered to be appropriate. This component is rated as highly
satisfactory because of the high quality of works and there was a saving of time of 12-15 month to
implement the project and there was also costs savings.

Output: Training for Operation

Training was an important aspect for the Project. As planned, training for YRWHDC staff during the
period of 1997 to 2002 was implemented in two phases. Local training was undertaken by the international
consultants for construction supervision, which included such topics as inspection of works, quality
control, and construction scheduling using computer aided software, claims management, project
management information systems. Some 100 staff was also trained in financial management. Specialized
training of 107 staff was done overseas in the United States, Switzerland, France, Italy, Germany, England
and Hong Kong SAR.

Phase 1. During the 1997-1998 period, most of the training was focused on the overall qualities and
financial management skills of senior and middle-level managers, as well as on the training of power
operation staff. In addition, more efforts for international project management and technology, training in
the field of foreign languages, driving skills, business administration, project operation management and
power plant O&M was arranged, including 440 person-months intensified training, 90 person-months
counterpart professional training, and 81 person-months overseas training on financial management, project
management and information management.

Phase 2. The main emphasis in the second phase from 1999 to 2000 was on institution administration,
project management, project supervision, and document processing, with continued efforts devoted to the
training on project operation and power plant O&M. This part of training included 329 person-months local
training, 110 person-months counterpart professional training, and 145 person-months overseas training,
study tour and technical exchange in the field of turbine, human resources administration, reservoir and
water resources management.

Although in retrospect some of the courses should have had a longer duration, it is considered that
considerable training was done during the Project and that it had a significant impact on improving the
capabilities of the staff. Overall this component is rated as Satisfactory.

Output: Environmental Protection Measures

Environmental Impacts and Environmental Protection Measures. As described in the Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) , the major adverse impacts due to the project included resettlement of some
200,000 people, risks due to reservoir-induced earthquake, and impact on cultural relics and potentials of
public health disasters. Corresponding environmental protection measures (EPMs) were developed in the


                                                      - 11 -

EIA to compensate, mitigate or minimize the impacts. The EPM are internalized as part of the construction
contract. All these EPMs have been implemented during project implementation as described below (see
chart of organization in Other Information).

Resettlement. The implementation of EPMs for resettlement program was carried out separately by
Environmental Management Office for Resettlement (EMO/RS) in a separate IDA project: Xiaolangdi
Resettlement Project (P003644). By the end of 2003, a total of 172,487 people have been successfully
relocated. Detailed discussions on this activity are covered in the ICR for the Xiaolangdi Resettlement
Project. (Report No. 29174-CN)

Dam Safety. All dam safety measures including establishment of a panel of experts, set-up of earthquake
monitoring network, all earthquake resistance design measures have been implemented and all are working
effectively. In addition a dam safety program, including an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) has been
prepared to ensure safe operation of the dam and that in event of any emergency. (See Annex 9 for details)

Cultural Relics. This activity was closely managed by the EMO. Excavation and preservation of cultural
relics sites was carried out by Henan and Shanxi Provincial Archaeological Bureaus in accordance with the
program plan with a budget of some Y 30 million. The program for excavation and preservation of
identified relics below EL275 has been completed as planned. Two summary reports (books) have been
prepared and published separately in book form by Henan and Shanxi provincial archaeological bureaus in
2000.

Public Health. Effective measures on public health, including provision of safe drinking water, food
sanitation, medical screening, rat and mosquito control, and vaccination were continuously taken by all
contractors and the project owner. Regular physical examinations were conducted for all workers at the
construction sites.

EPMs at Construction Sites

Worker Safety. Surveillance of safety in construction areas was the responsibility of the XECC through
the special Safety Department (SD/XECC). Each contractor had a corresponding safety division with
responsibilities of safety management. All possible measures were taken to reduce working accidents.
According to statistical safety report of YRWHDC, the number of accidental deaths was within the range
of 0.5% [publications from FIDIC indicate statistical incidence of accidents in such types of projects],
considering the total number of workers involved, near 10,000 at peak, and the duration, 6 years, in such a
complicated project, with over 100 tunnels and a huge underground power house."

Solid Waste Management. All solid waste, including production waste such as construction spoils and
wastes from camps was collected and transferred to designated disposal sites.

Water Pollution Control. All wastewater discharged from all the project construction areas and camp
areas basically met the standards and continuous monitoring results have showed that the impact of the
waste water discharge on the Yellow River water quality was negligible.

Dust and Noise Control.       Responsibilities for dust control in all construction areas and roads was
assigned to different contractors and the project owner. Regular road watering was conducted by
contractors and the owner (YRWHDC) on their responsible roads. Noise due to construction was
monitored and controlled at an acceptable level. Measures were taken for those noise sources with impact



                                                     - 12 -

on local residents. As an example, the Heqing Village School near the construction area was relocated due
to noise impacts with fund provided by the corresponding contractor and YRWHDC.

Environmental Monitoring
A complete environmental monitoring system was established and functioned well for the duration of the
project. Environmental monitoring tasks related to Xiaolangdi dam site such as water quality, public health,
air quality, water pollution control were assigned to and carried out periodically by different monitoring
institutes. Systematic and large amounts of monitoring data was generated and necessary actions taken
during project implementation to resolve environmental issues identified by monitoring such as Heqing
School relocation and use of wastewater treatment facilities by one of the principal contractors to name
two.

Comparison of Environmental Activities
The following table shows a comparison between the environmental activities required in the project
appraisal document and those actually implemented during project implementation. It is clear that all the
activities required have been implemented with satisfactory results and some even with highly satisfactory
results.

A Comparison of PAD Requirements on Environmental Management and Implementation

       PAD Requirements                            Implementation                      Evaluation
 1.      Establishment of EMO          Established from 1994 to now                   Satisfactory
    with Competent Staff
 2.      Employment of                 Employed from 1994 to now                      Highly
    International Panel of Experts                                                    Satisfactory
 3.      Environmental Protection      3.1 All measures planned have been             Satisfactory
    Measures on                           implemented                                 Highly
    3.1 Dam Safety                     3.2 Planned program has been completed         Satisfactory
    3.2 Cultural Relics                3.3 All measures taken with excellent          Highly
    3.3 Public Health                  results                                        Satisfactory
 4.      Resettlement                  Some 200,000 people have been                  Highly
                                       successfully                                   Satisfactory
                                       relocated (A separate IDA project)
 5.      Measures to Mitigate          An effective environmental management          Highly
    adverse impacts cause by           system                                         Satisfactory
    project construction               established and been functioned well with
                                       minimized impacts
 6.      Timely EMP                    EMP implemented with project progress          Satisfactory
    Implementation
 7.      Review of detailed action     Yes                                            Satisfactory
    plans by Panel and Bank
 8.      Ensure YRCC, Henan,           Yes                                            Satisfactory
    Shanxi participation


Review Reports of Panel of Experts
The International Panel of Experts on Environment and Resettlement (POE) was established in June 1994
under the stage I project and it continued for the duration of stage II. One of the objectives of the panel was
to ensure implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and minimize adverse environmental
impacts caused by the implementation of the project. By the end of March 2001, the panel was convened 12
times. Review of the panel reports indicates that the panel played a very important role in the whole process



                                                     - 13 -

of environmental management in Xiaolangdi Project, especially on establishment, improvement, and
effective function of the environmental management system mentioned above. Xiaolangdi experience has
suggested that such a panel was necessary to ensure successful implementation of EMP especially for those
large-scale projects with significant environmental management risk. Overall rating of this component is
highly satisfactory.

Output: Flood, Sediment, Ice and Drought Management
According to the Government laws/regulations and MWR stipulations, flood, sediment, ice and drought
management in the whole Yellow River basin (including Xiaolangdi reservoir area) is under the control of
YRCC. Institutional reforms were initiated by YRCC in the course of project implementation.
Organizations and their responsibilities for planning, allocation and management of water resources,
including water supply, flood, sediment, and ice and drought management are summarized as follows:

Chief Engineer's Office. Assist the chief engineer and the deputy chief engineer in performing the overall
technical responsibility of YRCC; make arrangements for the study of the Yellow River management
strategies and significant technical issues, undertake the "Digital Yellow River" project planning and
construction management; and fulfill the routine duties of YRCC Commission of Science and Technology.

Water Resources Management and Allocation Bureau. Organize investigation and assessment of
basin-wide water resources, develop trans-province water distribution schemes, annual schedules and water
resource allocation options for the purpose of unified water allocation; organize and/or steer justification of
important water developments in the basin; organize the implementation of the water extraction permits as
authorized; direct water saving activities in the basin; and publish basin-wide water resources
communiques.

Flood Control Office. Make arrangements for or take part in developing basin-wide flood control schemes
and supervise the implementation thereof; perform flood/drought management of important water projects
as required and authorized; direct and supervise the management and compensation of flood detention
basins; and organize and direct the justification of important water projects in respect of flood control.

Flood, Sediment, Ice and Drought Management Information System. As part of the Project an
automatic water regime forecasting system consisting of data collecting subsystem, data transmission, data
processing and flood forecasting subsystem was developed. This system comprises 54 precipitation
stations, 11 hydrologic stations and 7 water level stations, with data automatically collected and then
transmitted via ultra-short wave and satellite communication. There are 2 central stations, one in
Zhengzhou and the other at Xiaolangdi, with PCs connected to satellite terminals and databases developed
using Foxpro. This system was implemented by YRCC Hydrology Bureau in 1997 and completed in 2001
at a total cost of Y 13.37 million.

At the same time, YRWHDC has invested Y 54 million and US$ 390,000 in hydrological and sediment
survey since 1997, with a considerable amount of measuring equipment purchased for these purposes. The
survey provides some baseline data for establishing the database of the Yellow River flood, sediment, and
ice and drought management information system. This part of work was completed and taken over in early
2002.




                                                      - 14 -

To improve sediment management, YRWHDC has also provided Y 41.72 million for YRCC to study the
Xiaolangdi reservoir operation mode. This study was completed in 2001, with findings already applied to
the recent water/sediment regulation tests. This provides a new solution to the problem of sediment in the
Yellow River.

In addition, YRCC is now developing the "Digital Yellow River", which, when completed, will qualitatively
improve the flood, sediment, ice and drought information system of the whole middle and lower Yellow
River reaches in respect of technology and management (see chart of the network in Other Information).
Overall evaluation of this component is satisfactory.

Output: Institutional Support to YRCC
For the institutional support the YRCC which was the executing has undertaken two items:

First, YRCC has set up a water dispatch office within YRCC, which monitors and collects charges at 90
points downstream. This water dispatch office coordinates with the YRCC's Henan and Shandong River
Bureaus. For efficient distribution of water, the following is now being contracted with the lower reach
water users:

        l Contracts are in process of being signed between YRCC's River Bureau's and the relevant
             Irrigation districts at each diversion point along the Lower Yellow River. Contracts will also
             be signed with all irrigation areas within the dikes.

        l The contracts will contain the timing and quantity of water to be delivered. It will be the
             responsibility of YRCC's River Bureaus to ensure that there is no siltation of the entrances to
             the diversion points.

        l Measuring devices with continuous recording instruments will be installed at each diversion
             point to ensure that water delivered will be accurately measured.

        l Communications by computer data connections will transmit the water data diverted each week
             to YRCC's headquarters for computation of charges.

        l Charges will be imposed on all water diverted from the river based on the following principles:
             a) All charges will be on a volumetric basis. Municipal and Industrial (M&I) water will be
             charged much higher rates than irrigation water; b) water charges will recover all operation
             and maintenance costs and capital costs allocated for irrigation and M&I; c)Charges will be
             based on the scarcity of water according to the seasons: dry-season water will be charged much
             higher than wet-season water; and discounts will be provided when water has very high silt
             content, and d) Penalties will be imposed for late payment by irrigation districts.

Cost recovery would cover, among others, flood and sediment control. A system of rationing has been
agreed between YRCC and the irrigation districts for water delivery during periods of drought. A
monitoring system has been established to indicate water deliveries and charges collected on a real-time
basis to measure efficiency of delivery( see chart of the procedures in Other Information).

The implementation of this component has clearly had significant impact on the downstream flows and the
availability of water. The lower reach up to 800km from the estuary was drying up. After the
implementation, it was found that even under extreme drought conditions continuous minimum flows could
be regulated through a rational dispatching arrangement. (see Figure 5). Overall assessment of this
component is satisfactory.




                                                      - 15 -

              Figure 5. Drying up of Yellow River from Lijin (river
                                                                mouth)


           800                                                                                                                         250

           700
                                                                                                                                       200
           600

           500                                                                                                                         150
                                                                                                                                           dry
           400
     Dry                                                                                                                               100    days
        km 300                                                                                                                                    of
                                                                                                                                                    No
           200                                                                                                                         50

           100
                                                                                                                                       0
            0

          -100 1972 1974 1975 1976 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1987 1988 1989 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 2000 2001 2002 -50

                                                                     Year


                                                 km of river dry                         Days dry


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic benefits were determined based on the value added to agriculture, M & I water, Flood
Control, Sediment Control and hydropower as described in the PAD. The basic analysis to evaluate the
benefits for added values used a simulation program using a 70 year hydrologic series (1919-1989). The
PAD analysis did not capture the 1990-2000 period when a major drought occurred and all the major
benefits for irrigation and power production declined significantly.

Incremental Production: Irrigation. Figure 6 shows that incremental production of grain increased to
1.84 million tons in 2000, but declined to 1.46 million tons. Since the water flows vary from year to year
the variation showing the highs and lows is presented on the graph. The details of M & I water supplied is
given in Table 1 above and is 0.22 BCM for an average year and 0.77 BCM for a dry year. However, the
benefits are integrated over the whole probabilistic flow supply. For power the incremental power
production follows the actual production from 2000-2004 from the table 2 and it levels off to 5800 Gwh
forecasted after 2008. Detailed scenarios were looked at and 5800Gwh was the most likely production that
could be sold to the Henan grid.




                                                                                         - 16 -

                      Figure 6 Incremental Production of Grain with Project


                  2.50

                  2.00

       Tons       1.50

                                                                                 Expon. (Average
                  1.00                                                           52%)
           Million
                                                                                 Expon. (98% Prob)
                  0.50
                                                                                 Expon. (33%
                  0.00                                                           Probability)

                      1990      2000      2010       2020       2030


Incremental benefits. The net incremental benefits have been worked for the five sets of benefits streams
using the simulation model also used for the PAD economic analysis: (a) flood control; (b) Sediment
control; (c) Irrigation; (d) hydropower; and (e) municipal and industrial water. The incremental benefits are
incremental production multiplied by the economic prices. The price methodology is similar to that used in
the PAD, but updated. The prices used to develop the flood control is essentially the damage reduced with
the project in areas between the dikes, detention basins and losses when the dikes breach. Sediment benefits
were estimated based on the cost foregone in raising the dikes because the reservoir will radically reduce
the sediment downstream of the dam. Irrigation benefits have been updated using economic farm gate
prices for all outputs and inputs, including labor based on the latest border prices as proxy for economic
prices. M & I water was valued conservatively based on present tariffs of water for M & I water of
Y1.2/cum. Hydropower was valued on the present tariffs (equivalent to willingness to pay) from the Power
Purchase Agreement of Y0.3/Kwh. Since peak power is valued the same as the base power the average
tariff undervalues the hydropower. Based on this methodology the discounted benefits are as indicated in
Table 4. Economic cash flow is presented in Annex 7.

                      Table 4     Discounted benefits
                           ICR       PAD     % of Total ICR/PAD

                        Bil Y     Bil Y
Agriculture                   9.87    12.089      30%        82%
M & I                         1.94     1.717       6%       113%
Hydropower                    6.17    16.536      19%        37%
Flood Control                11.39     7.345      35%       155%
Sediment                      3.40     2.817      10%       121%
Total                        32.77    40.50      100%        81%




                                                         - 17 -

                                                   Figures 7 PAD and ICR Project Benefits

                        PAD Benefit Estimation                                                  ICR Benefits



                       Sediment, 2.817,                                             Sediment, 3.40,
                             7%                                                         10%

                                            Agriculture,                                                       Agriculture, 9.87,
           Flood Control,
                                            12.089, 30%                                                                30%
             7.345, 18%




                                                                         Flood Control,
                                                                           11.39, 35%

                                              M & I, 1.717, 4%                                                  M & I, 1.94, 6%



                       Hydropower,                                                                      Hydropower, 6.17,
                        16.536, 41%                                                                          19%




Based on Table 4 and Figure 7 it is clear that the benefit structure is similar, but hydropower share has
declined (41% to 19%) because of the lower tariffs and lower generation rates due to lower flows. The
tariffs declined from 0.52 fen/Kwh to 0.275 fen/Kwh. There was a surplus of power in China between
2000-2002 and it was impossible to negotiate higher rates. However, with the growth of China pushing
upwards and the power sector reforms for a two part tariff it is expected that tariffs will not remain low for
long. The share of flood control has increased (18%-35%) especially after a Y 6.5 billion damage in the
downstream areas of the 1996 floods. Sediment benefits have also increased because of the constrictions in
the channel due to sedimentation in the 1990's and these costs have been updated. The agriculture benefit
declined because of lower flows (90-year series shows lower averages). M & I benefits essentially remain
the same. Decline in benefits due to several factors is Y 8.73 billion or 21%. However, Y32.8 billion in
benefits is still very large for the project

Economic Costs. Economic cost includes the cost of the dam and all the associated structures and the cost
of compensation for resettlement (proxy for benefits foregone). All interest and transfer payments were
remove to obtain the economic costs. Resettlement cost have increased by about $200 million. The
discounted costs are Y29.0 billion in 1997 which have increased from Y21.7 billion (33%), all due to
resettlement cost increases.

Economic Rate of Return Analysis: Detailed economic cash flow streams are shown in the Annex 3. The
EIRR for the base case is 13.2%, which is down from 20.8% in the PAD because of the 21% decline in
benefits and 33 % increase in costs. However, an ERR of 13.2% for such a large project is still considered
to be good.

Risk Analysis. Risk analysis was performed examining the effects of decline in agricultural prices,
hydropower decline in generation or tariff rates or decline in M & I water rates and values. The EIRR
shows that the project is robust and declines in prices or tariffs only cause a decline in EIRR of less than
1% (see table 6) despite 20% decline in the benefits. In addition to the economic benefits, the project
delivers huge social benefits arising from the protection of more than a 100 million people from floods,
enhanced security and water supply to 40 million people in urban areas, and enhanced stability and supply
to some 25 million farmers.




                                                               - 18 -

                 Table 6     Risk Analysis
                                       ICR          PAD
 Base case                              13.2%      20.8%
 -20% Agriculture value                 13.0%      19.7%
 -20% in Power Price                    12.6%        n/a
 -20% in generation                     12.6%      17.8%
 -20% in M& I valuation                 13.1%        n/a

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Detailed financial analysis was performed for the YRWHDC. It can be observed that the financial
covenants for the project have been met fully in terms of debt service coverage and current ratio, but the
rate of return on revalued assets for power will be satisfied only in 2010 and that for the whole company by
2020. This essentially would mean that the Xiaolangdi Project, with water charge collection and subsidies
for flood and sediment operation, can have funds to pay back the loan and meet its obligations for operation
and maintenance. However, the Rate of Return on Assets of the entire project will not be met until 2020.
The project is reasonably healthy since all such public utility projects with large flood control, irrigation
and sediment control components in the UK and US only achieve rates of return of 2-4%. Table 7 shows
essentially all the financial requirements as required by the Bank at appraisal have been satisfied. The
analysis at ICR was based on the 2002 financial statement. The 2003 statement should have much higher
power revenues and therefore should show a better financial situation.

                             Table 7. Financial Ratio's for YRWHDC
     Year                       2002        2005          2010          2015         2020          2021

                                                     Rate of Return(%)
     Net Revalued Fixed
     Assets                          0.4          0.5            3.0          4.1         5.0            5.2
     Bank Covenant                   2.0          2.0            5.0          5.0         5.0            5.0

                                                     Rate of Return on Power(%)
      Return On Net Fixed
     Assets - Power                  7.5          7.9          13.9          17.6         20.8          21.5
     Bank Covenant                     5           10          10.0            10          10             10

                                                     Current ratio

     Current Ratio                   2.2          2.1            3.3          5.1         7.8            8.4
     Bank Covenant                     1            1            1.0            1           1              1

                                                     Debt Service Ratio
     Debt Service Coverage
     Ratio                           1.4          1.1            2.7          6.8         29.7          30.2
     Debt Service Coverage
     Ratio (considering DSRF)        1.4          1.5            3.6          8.8         38.1          38.7
     Bank Covenant                   1.3          1.3            1.6          1.6         1.6            1.6


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact on institutional development is rated high. Under the total project (stages I and II), the Ministry
of Water Resources, for the first time formed a corporate entity to manage the project and to ensure that the
management entity had the right training so as to be financially self-sustaining into the future. Because of
the strategic nature of the project, the YRWHDC is still under the supervisory control of YRCC for its
strategic operations for floods and water supply to cities. However, YRWHDC is the first attempt to create




                                                     - 19 -

a water resources entity, which will be essentially be financially autonomous for it's commercial
undertakings (except for the flood and sediment control-considered public goods). YRWHDC is also paying
back the World Bank Loans, including the IDA Credit for the resettlement project and also the other local
and foreign loans. With the construction of the Qijiayuan re-regulating dam, the power production
capability and supply more peak power to the Henan Grid should increase. The second most important
institutional impact is the development of the institutional arrangement for water dispatching to the lower
reach. No other major river basin has this type of dispatching system with solid contractual arrangement
with water users in the two downstream provinces. This arrangement will also ensure that the that water is
released for environmental purposes and the flow in the Yellow River will reach the estuary (see Figure 5).
Thirdly, institutional rearrangements now ensure the integrated management of the water resources of the
lower river, including the complex arrangements for flood, ice flood, sediment and drought forecasting and
management will be undertaken properly.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Since many of the large contracts were with international contractors - German, French and Italians the
exchange rate fluctuations which caused initial losses to the US$. In early 1995, the RMB Yuan
depreciated by some 50% against the US$. In 1996-1997 the exchange rate of the DM versus the RMB
Yuan was considerably increased. All these factors have largely increased the budget funds of Xiaolangdi
Project at the time of budget adjustment in 1997. In the earlier stages of the Project the Employer had
foreign exchange losses of up to US$30 million, but with the DM 2.0 = US$ 1.00 between 1998 and 2001,
it subsequently recovered most of these losses. The final status is that $70 million dollars was cancelled
from this loan because of the foreign exchange saving which occurred in the later part of the project
2000-2002.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Strong commitment by the implementing agency MWR enabled the project to be completed on time with all
interim dates of completion being kept. When problems resulted the MWR committed a Vice Minister to be
in charge of the Corporation.

Other factors:

a) In 1993-1995, the yearly increase of commodity prices in the domestic market rose quickly 10-14%%
due to inflation. This considerably increased some of the Project components cost. Most cost increases
could have been prevented by Government by reducing the tariffs on imported goods so that imported
goods could substitute for local goods, especially for some construction materials such as timber and steel.
This would have prevented the price hikes.

b) In the course of economic transformations, the Government made changes to some legislation in 1993
and promulgated some new laws such as Tax Law, Labor Law amongst others. All these new laws had a
great impact on the contractors and gave rise to the contractors' claims and increased the Project costs
components to some extent.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong commitment by the implementing agency, YRWHDC, enabled the project to exceed PAD
expectations in human resource development, project coordination, design and construction management,
and cost control.




                                                     - 20 -

The implementation of such a large project with all sorts of technical complexities was a real challenge.
Changes in scope due to underground geological changes created problems. This was the first time that
YRWHDC executed a major set of international contracts. The entire FIDIC conditions of contract was
new. The need for the "Engineer" to be independent according to FIDIC conditions of contract was also
new. So initial stage of the implementation the implementation agency was on a learning curve, which took
about two years. In addition some of the international contractors were also new to such large contracts in
China. After this initial stage things seem to settle down and work moved very rapidly and was completed
12-15 months ahead of schedule. In addition except for one major claim (changed of ground conditions),
which dragged on for 2 years before being settled all other claims were expeditiously settled. The
international consulting services working along side the Chinese staff greatly assisted not only the technical
aspects of the project but also the contractual and claims aspects of the project implementation. The
appointment of the Disputes Review Board (DRB) helped considerably to solve a lot of the claims issues.

Training was key to success of the construction implementation. The stage I training (see section on
training) which included contract management and claims management proved to be extremely useful.

In early 1995, construction progress of Lot II was seriously delayed due to several tunnel collapses, which
cast a shadow over the river diversion objective. One of the main reasons for the delay was that one
Contractor failed to obtain qualified local techniques and labor. As recommended by the Employer, the
Contractor agreed to introduce a new subcontractor and take active acceleration measures.

Measures were set in place by the Employer and by the MWR, to ensure that the River Diversion interim
completion date was achieved. YRWHDC's major effort resulted also in the completion of the inlet and
outlet tunnels, plunge pool and spillway construction by September 2000, some 6 months ahead of
schedule.

The same applies to the civil works of the underground facilities (power house cavern, power tunnels, the
main transformer chamber, the valve chamber, tailrace tunnels and outlet structures), which were completed
in September 1999, 7 months ahead of schedule. Power conduits and penstocks were also completed in
advance of the date required.

During the implementation of the Project, many additional reinforcement measures were adopted in design
for underground excavations and high slopes particularly for safety reasons and long-term stability. Whilst
this did not affect the timing it nevertheless became design adjustments resulting in variations and hence in
the increase of some of the Project components costs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
In considering the costs and financing for the whole project covering both stage I and stage II, it is logical to
consider both stages together because the civil works and all other major contracts continued and were
financed across both stages. The total project appraisal cost, excluding interest during construction (IDC)
was US$2855.8 million equivalent, of which $1307.2 million (46%) was foreign costs. The actual
competed cost was US$2,688.8 million equivalent, of which US$843 million (31.3%) was foreign costs.
The total savings in foreign cost ($464.2 million) came mainly from project investments because the
government decided to finance many small items totalling US$121 million and another US$343 million
saved in IDC because government directly funded all local costs, instead of borrowing from local banks.




                                                       - 21 -

Overall cost savings, net of inflation originated from: (i) sharp local competitive bidding for mechanical and
electric equipment , (ii) efficient contract and funds management, especially for foreign contract claims; (iii)
a design that minimized change orders; and (iv) savings due to the devaluation of the Deuch Mark against
the US dollar.




                            Figure 8. Cost Comparison of Major Items


               900
               800
               700
       $       600
               500                                                                            Estimated
               400                                                                            Actual
        Million300
               200
               100
                0
                     1           2           3

                      Lot         Lot         Lot
                                                                     Electrical
                                                       Mechanical                 Admin/Eng


Since the loan financed the second stage of the total project, it is necessary to look at the total financing
picture, including both stage 1 and stage 11 project loans and the role they played in the overall financing.
All funds provided are shown in table below. Government resources from budget were Y15014 million;
Local loan funds from China Development Bank and Construction Bank amounted, $2,723 million All the
funds needed for the construction of Xiaolangdi Project were in place on time, which greatly assisted
project implementation according to the planned schedule. The total available foreign funds were US$ 999
million of which Bank loan Stage I was $460 million and Stage II Loan of $430 million equivalent and
export Credit and loan funds of $109 million. Funds used were, Y12.555 billion from the central
government; Y2.523 billion from China Development Bank; Y200 million from China Construction Bank;
US$459.78 million from World Bank stage I loan; US$216 million (US $ portion) and $91.6 million
equivalent (DM portion) from World Bank stage II loan ; and export credits totaling US$74.00, US$55.84
million from American Import and Export Bank and US$18.16 million from Tokyo Mitsubishi Bank.
There were a saving totaling US122.4 million for in Bank the Bank loan (US$108.4 million equivalent and
US $14 million) from stage II and this amount was cancelled. The actual sources and uses of funds for the
whole Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam project is summarized in the table below. Details of loan allocation
and disbursements for the stage I and II loans are shown in Annex 10.




                                                      - 22 -

          Xiaolangdi Project Financing Arrangements (Unit: million US$ and Y or RMB)

 Financial Source                                 Estimated                       Actual            Percentage
                                                      RMB                $          RMB        $       RMB      $


 Funds from Government                              15,014.00                      12,555.00             83.6%
 China Development Bank                               2,523.00                      2,523.00            100.0%
 China Construction Bank                                200.00                       200.00             100.0%
 World Bank Stage I Loan\a                                             460.00                 459.58            99.9%
 World Bank Stage II Loan($)\b                                         230.00                 216.00            93.9%
 World Bank Stage II Loan (DM)\c                                       200.00                  91.60            45.8%
 Export Credit\d                                                       109.00                  74.00            67.9%
 Total                                              17,737.00          999.00      15,278.00  841.18     86.1%  84.2%
 \a Pooled currency loan $430million for project and $30 million for IDC capitalized
 \b Single Currency Loan in $ and DM
 \c The DM single currency loan was DM 346.5 million and equivalent to $200 million
 \d From US EXIM Bank


At the completion of the project, the actual total expenditure of funds was less than the estimate. The was
due mainly to the active and effective management measures to control project investment costs, favorable
exchange rate variations and some changes of commodity prices used in construction.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly likely. All physical components were constructed in a technically sound
manner and all of the components have been operating for 3 years with all operating targets achieved, i.e.
all six units hydro generation units are operational and functioning well; the operation of sediment tunnels
and flushing test indicate that these work well; the main outlet tunnels have been operated and erosion on
these tunnels is very minimal. MWR has done a detailed evaluation of the project through a panel of experts
and has accepted the project in terms of quality and functionality of all the elements of the project. The
international panel of experts from Norway, Italy, Brazil, USA and Canada made a final inspection and
prepared their final report and indicated that all safety measures on the dam and the structures have been
complied with and are thoroughly satisfied with the project quality.

All dam safety requirements in terms of future monitoring of the structures are operational and working
well. Some 3500 gauges are in place to monitoring the deflections, pore pressures, settlement etc of the dam
and structures. Emergency power to the gates have been completed so that gates and other structures can be
operated even if the main and secondary line power fails. In addition a set of seismographs telemeter via
microwave stations the micro-seismicity due reservoir induced seismic activities. Many of the reservoir
banks are also being monitored for stability. The major dam safeguards of an Emergency Preparedness
Program has been prepared and will be operated by YRCC in event of any emergency in Sanmenxia or
Xiaolangdi Dams.

Organization for Operation : The YRWHDC has been reorganized and reoriented from construction
management to undertake operation of the dam and powerhouse and ensure full financial accountability. All
staff (524) are in place in the new organization and all departments had been established and are functional.
About 107 staff have gone through intense financial management training.




                                                                   - 23 -

Implementation of flood, sediment, ice and drought systems has improve the level of project
management and boosted the project benefits. The Project Operator has formulated various rules and
regulations, including operation specifications, project maintenance procedures, operation systems, and
system of responsibilities, to ensure well-organized management and smooth operation of the Project.
Adequate rules and regulations are the legal basis of adequate project operation.

To ensure sustainable utilization of water resources, the Government has recently issued the new Water
Law and a series of other laws/regulations that provides a legal and policy basis for the sustainable
management by water management agencies and water projects. These clearly define the responsibility,
duty, function and role of water management agencies and provide specific measures for the long-term
development of such agencies.

In May 2000 YRWHDC signed an agreement with the Henan Power Bureau for sales/purchase of power
generated by Xiaolangdi to the provincial grid. This agreement will allow YRWHDC to cover all operating
costs, portion of repayment of loan principal and interests. The Government of China (GOC) recognizes
that Xiaolangdi is a strategic project for water supply as well as flood and sediment control, all of which
have economic benefits that cannot necessarily derive financial revenues directly from the beneficiaries.
Hence the GOC will compensate the operation of the dam, if it cannot meet its financial obligations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As a State-Owned Enterprise, YRWHDC owns and operates all of the project facilities, and has a well
trained staff complement of 524. It has three profit centers, namely, Hydropower, Irrigation and M&I
Water Supply, and Flood Control. The following Departments are considered key to operation

Hydropower Station. The Hydro-Power Station is responsible for the entire operation and maintenance
aspects of the Project. There is 111 staff at the station. The organization chart indicates a good set-up of the
offices and workshop units. The station carries out cost calculations for the various activities related to
power generation and the release of water. Hydropower production is based on the presently installed
capacity of six units of 300 MW each.

Finance Department. The Finance Department is headed by a Chief Accountant and two Finance
Directors and has a total staff of 10 distributed in 4 units. The Department is responsible for all accounting
and computerization of financial information. The staff has received the necessary training on how to
operate the system. One unit, the "Investment Settlement Section" is responsible of the raising, disbursing,
monitoring and repayment of the World Bank Loans. The unit is headed by a competent and trained
accountant and has a total staff of three.

Business Management Department. The Business Management Department is the planning and
commercial center and is responsible for the marketing and sales of the outputs from the XLD, i.e.
hydropower, irrigation and M & I water. The Department plans and establishes the overall YRWHDC
budgets for the operation, together with the Finance Department and the Power/Water Management
Department. The Business Management Department, together with the Chief Economist and the
Hydropower Station Director, is responsible for negotiation of contracts with the main clients, YRCC, the
power distribution companies (Henan Electricity Power Company) and the Henan and Shandong
Municipal authorities. The Department is headed by two directors and with staff of 9.

Operation and Maintenance. The technical operation and maintenance rules and procedures formulated
and followed by YRWHDC for the dam/power plant operators are satisfactory and in line with the pertinent
codes/specifications and regulations of the Chinese Government. As for the O & M Plan specified in the


                                                      - 24 -

legal agreement for this project, a document entitled "Management and Maintenance Program for the
Operation of the Power Plant" was prepared together with the "Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance
Manual for Xiaolangdi Dam Safety" and some related guidelines developed with the assistance of an
international consultant team (see Annex 9).

Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP). The YRCC has prepared the EPP for both Xiaolangdi and
Sanmenxia Dams, as required by the Loan Agreement, with the assistance of YRWHDC. These procedures
will be activated in terms of emergency procedures in event of an emergency and a plan to evacuate people
and to provide for all necessary shelter, food and public heath until the emergency is averted (see Annex 9).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance from Project preparation to implementation was highly satisfactory. This started
during the Project preparation for stage I and continued in the stage II project. The Bank assisted in the
following aspects via technical assistance credits: (i) Inviting foreign experts and consultants to review the
Project; (ii) Establishing a system to identify the duties and responsibilities of the Employer, Engineer and
Contractor; and (iii) Determining procurement of the civil works by lots and the relationship between
foreign and local contractors, to enable technical transfer and good international practices. The Bank also
exerted special influence on developing a separate resettlement project and in defining the environmental
requirement; and the Bank also supported the establishment of YRWHDC as a commercially independent
entity responsible for construction of the Project, instead of Central Government Project Office as was the
practice at that time in China. In addition, during the preparation, considerable effort, were focused on
works quality and institutional development for sustainability of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank had 6 supervision missions for Stage II to review the Project. The Bank performance during
project supervision was satisfactory. QAG undertook a review of the supervision arrangements and found it
essentially satisfactory. The Bank regularly supervised the Project and attached high priority to
implementation issues related to technical, quality control, and financial and environmental aspects. These
supervision missions, provided many valuable comments and recommendations on implementation of the
Project. Clear and prompt responses to the questions raised by the Implementing Agency were given. A
close cooperation with the Implementing Agency prevailed. All these contributed greatly to a successful
Project implementation.

In the initial phases the Bank's supervision focused on technical and implementation issues. In the later
phases the focus was more on technical and environmental and financial matters. This included promoting
the creation of a Dispute Review Board and providing a workshop on claims. Overall the Bank supervision
brought significant added value to YRWHDC in ensuring the Project was on track on all aspects.
(financially, quality, schedule wise, solution to disputes, etc.)

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory. It was able to guide and assist the YRWHDC in a
timely manner which resulted in the completion of such a large and complex Project ahead of schedule and
below budget. The project involved a lot of technically challenging aspects, but the Bank was able to
maintain the cooperation with the Borrower and the Implementing Agency throughout. The Bank was also
effective in providing adequate coordination for all parties involved the project that lead to the completion
of such a large project.




                                                      - 25 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government and the Implementing Agency's performance in preparation of the Project were highly
satisfactory. The Government was very responsive to all comments made by the Bank missions and
independent panels. YRWHDC was fully responsible for all the design and tender document preparation
with the assistance of foreign consultants. Most preparation work was done in record time of two years to
ensure timely start-up of the Project. YRWHDC invested considerable amounts of funds and prepared the
resettlement and environmental plans to very high quality, which was highly favorable to the Bank Project
appraisal and the implementation of the Project

7.5 Government implementation performance:
MWR, who represented the Government for this Project played a leading role at all stages of the Project
preparation and implementation, and successfully coordinated the understanding of various ministries and
provinces and strongly supported the Project implementation effort. The Borrower (MOF) and MWR have
fully complied with all the loan covenants (See Annex 8) except for the water charge covenant, which is
partially complied with as it is still under negotiation with the provinces. They do however collect water
charges, but do revenues do not to cover all the O & M costs at this stage.

Since 1996 when there were delays of 11 months in the critical interim completion date with potential
serious consequences, MWR took critical measures to coordinate all parties and stationed a vice-minister at
the site to ensure that the Project problems were solved and adequate counterpart funds were made
available. This ensured the achievement of river diversion by October 1997, as scheduled. MWR organized
27 meetings to review the Project at different stages to ensure that any special issue that arose from design
or implementation was solved. Overall MWR's performance was highly satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementation Agency, YRWHDC was established as agreed at the time of Project appraisal of the
stage I project in 1993. The stage II, YRWHDC remained fully responsible for the Project implementation,
guided and coordinated by MWR and other relevant ministries.

YRWHDC has successfully implemented both phases of the Project. Its primary achievement was to meet
all the milestone dates of the physical construction and to ensure that the quality of works was excellent.
The Project has been essentially completed one year ahead of schedule and to high international quality
standards. YRWHDC has been open to new technologies and construction management techniques and able
to adopt the best practice in terms of organization and Project management systems. YRWHDC has
successfully incorporated foreign and local panels of experts into project management, which greatly
contributed to successful implementation management. When delays occurred at various stages of
construction, YRWHDC was able to promptly identify the problems on the critical path and take measures
to solve them.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory because it demonstrated strong ownership of the
Project, completed all the project activities well ahead of schedule, below budget and to high quality
standards.

8. Lessons Learned

The Xiaolangdi project (stages I and II) is the largest Bank-financed project in China to date. On the
international scale, it was a very challenging project because of its huge size, predominantly large
underground caverns, high degree of technical difficulties, and complex subsurface conditions. Principal



                                                       - 26 -

lessons learned from the Project include the following:

a) High risk/high reward projects can be effectively implemented with the right skills on the Bank side,
    and high commitment by the client to good organization and competent management, combined with the
    judicious use of international technical assistance and review.

b) Implementing a project of the magnitude and complexity of Xiaolangdi will be greatly assisted if the
    implementation organization is in place prior to the start of the project. It should be independent, have
    full decision-making authority and be accountable and responsibility for implementation performance.

c) The separation of the large and complex technical and civil works construction activities from large
    resettlement activities into two separate project operations worked very well and contributed to the
    effective and successful implementation of both. It allowed both the Bank and the implementation
    agencies to concentrate their resources and efforts on the two activities, as separate operations. This
    provides a valuable lessons for the Bank on how to manage large-scale resettlement associated with a
    major infrastructure investment.

d) The establishment and maintenance of effective forum for communications amongst various parties
    (owner, engineer, designer, advisors and contractors) should be actively pursued from the onset, to
    avoid misunderstandings that could cause delays and /or losses to the project. Communication
    difficulties were perhaps the most difficult to resolve in construction of the Xiaolangdi scheme. This
    issue is not simply of translation between different languages, but of communicating ideas and concepts
    across international boundaries of training and culture. Most of the communication issues seem to
    decrease substantially in the second stage project because of the judicious use of consultants to
    interface between the contractor and the owner and there seemed to be significant communication
    between the various parties.

e) The use of the International Panel of Experts substantially reduced the time for resolving conflicts in
    understanding technical problems. The POE for Xiaolangdi finally rested on 4 international experts and
    one Chinese Leader/Coordinator and this arrangement worked well.

(f) Experience suggests that an International Panel of Experts for environmental management was
    necessary to ensure successful implementation of EMP, especially for large-scale projects with
    significant environmental management risk.

g) The use of the Environment Supervising Engineer (ESE) and International Environmental Panel clearly
    demonstrated that all environmental issues were observed early and corrective actions were taken. The
    ESE in the second phase of the project ensured that the contractors followed all environment
    requirements to offset negative impacts.

h) The use of Disputes Review Board (DRB) to resolved claims issues proved to be extremely useful and
    resulted in most claims being expeditiously resolved.

i)  Training of staff on all aspects of implementation prior to the start of the project - scheduling,
    construction supervision, contract management, claims management and cost control averted many of
    the problems and issues encountered in the project, especially with the international contractor;

j)  Training of staff prior to completion of the project in financial management, business management and
    tariff negotiations added significantly the sustainability of the project.


                                                     - 27 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


      Borrower's Project Evaluation Summary (by YRWHDC, February 2004)

    I. ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

    The project objectives are all achieved as planned and explained as follows:

    a)   Flood Control
                                                                Flood Control
                                                         Objective Achievement
                The objective was to introduce flood control in the lower reaches of the Yellow River Basin and to
                protect major infrastructure as well as some 103 million people.With the completion of the Xiaolangdi
                Dam in early 2000 the dam is now capable of regulating floods for return periods up to 1/1000 years as
                planned as well as regulating water during the dry seasons. Flood forecasting systems have been
                significantly strengthened and the institutions are in place to undertake forecasting. Further, ice
                flooding can be completely avoided and ice formation avoided downstream by adequate and controlled
                water release from the reservoir as was e.g. achieved in the winter of 2002.


    b) Sediment Reduction
                                                            Sediment Reduction
                                                          Objective Achievement
                Control siltation in the 800 km downstream channel of the Yellow River and prevent further
                aggradation. The reservoir began storage in the year 2000. The reservoir stored some 233 million tons
                of silt and a further 19 million tons of was eroded in the downstream river channel totaling 252 million
                tons in its first year of operation. This is in itself a remarkable achievement.
                It is estimated that for an average year some 300 million tons of sediment will be controlled. In the
                past 3 years some 900 million tons of silt were trapped by the Dam


    c) Water Supply
                                                               Water Supply
                                                      Objective Achievement
               The objective was to provide water for guaranteed irrigation and more reliable water supplies for
               downstream urban areas and industries
               The reservoir began supplying water for irrigation, industries and cities in the year 2000, one year
               ahead of the original schedule. Some 2 billion m3 were supplied during one of the worst droughts of the
               last 100 years. As such Tianjin received some 860 million m3 , whilst the remainder was supplied
               downstream for irrigation, industry, such as the Shengi Oil fields, and urban areas.
               Some 21 billion m3 of additional water from the Xiaolangdi reservoir has been supplied to the
               downstream areas in the past 3 years.


    d) Power Generation
                                                            Power Generation
                                                        Objectives Achievements
               The objective was to generate hydropower for supplementing the base load of thermal power stations in
               Henan and the Central China Power Network Power generation started in February 2000, albeit on a
               reduced scale, since first priority has been given to use of water to offset the serious drought conditions,
               with a total water release of 48 billion m3 and a power output of 550 Gwh by the end of 2000 compared
               to the 1650 Gwh anticipated. This change in priority deprived the system of water supply and water
               heads for power generation. However, from January 2001 until December 31, 2001 power generation
               was 2112 Gwh, compared to 2257 anticipated or 93 % and from January 2002 until December 30, 2002
               power generation was 3280 Gwh.



                                                            - 28 -

e)  Other benefits

   The Xiaolangdi Dam Project managed to keep water flowing to the lower reaches of the river with
   no days when the river dried up. This continuous flow has a significant impact on the ecology of
   the estuary. Further, reduced silt content of or silt free water will greatly enhance the freshwater
   ecology in the river since most freshwater fish cannot normally survive in highly silted water. In
   addition, silt free water will significantly reduce the cost for water treatment for urban or
   agricultural use.

   On environmental management, to minimize or mitigate the impacts environmental protective
   measurers were put into place and organizations established by YRWHDC according to the
   EIA/EMP. With joint efforts made by the Employer, Contractors, Engineer and local governments,
   significant environmental damage and diseases prevalence were never encountered during the
   construction period, the environment in the project and beneficiary areas have been protected to the
   extent possible. The government's environmental authority, SEPA, is planning to make the
   environmental protection implementation at Xiaolangdi a model for infrastructure projects in
   China.

II. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

Factors outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency

The factors outside the control of Government or Implementing Agency mainly include:

a. Change of geological conditions

        A number of large tunnels and complex geological structures are the features of Xiaolangdi
        Project. The rock formation consists of mudstones, siltstones and sandstones with widespread
        clay intercalations. These complex geological conditions created considerable difficulties to
        the construction process and lead to some collapses of significant size. This was the main
        reason for implemented design changes. All these factors have given rise to contractor's claim
        and increased the Project costs component at that stage.

b. Contract Management

        Some contractors were relatively new to China and were in the earlier stages of the Project
        implementation not necessarily familiar with China's labor market and its way of management.
        At the early stages of the Project, some contractors hired a number of unqualified labors from
        the free labor market and managed them with foreign management method which failed to
        achieve expected results. All these factors impacted the progress of the Project at that stage.

c. Exchange rate
        In early 1995, the RMB Yuan was depreciated by some 50% against the US$. In 1996-1997
        the exchange rate of the DM versus the RMB Yuan was considerably increased. All these
        factors have largely increased the budget funds of Xiaolangdi Project at the time of budget
        adjustment in 1997. In the earlier stages of the Project the Employer had foreign exchange
        losses of up to US$30 million, but with the DM 2.0 = US$ 1.00 between 1998 and 2001, it
        subsequently recovered most of these losses.


                                                 - 29 -

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

a. During the implementation of the Project, the central government, some related ministries and the
government of two provinces have attached great importance to the Project. Their great care and
support have been the guarantees for the successful implementation of the Project. Moreover, the
direct leadership of MWR, the active participation and effective work of some departments has laid a
solid foundation for the smooth implementation of the Project. Also for the same reason, the Project has
never been impacted by the unavailability of funds.

b. The Government at high level has placed great confidence in YRWHDC and fully empowered it, in
order for it to make timely and effective decisions. YRWHDC was given the authority to make
independent decisions with regard to some problems directly related to project quality and progress
such as technical, financial and management issues. YRWHDC was also empowered to fully deal with
claims and contract disputes.

c. In 1993-1995, the yearly increase of commodity prices in the domestic market was as high as
6-10% due to inflation. This considerably increased some of the Project components costs.

d. Inflation for local materials and labor was originally clear and payments were made which were
acceptable to the contractors. Subsequently, it was established that local escalation figures were
computed such as it created a considerable dispute between the contractors and the Employer. The
local labor escalation particularly created a major problem.

e. In the course of economic transformations, the Government made changes to some legislation in
1993 and promulgated some new laws such as Tax Law, Labor Law amongst others. All these new
laws had a great impact on the contractors and gave rise to the contractors' claims and increased the
Project costs components to some extent.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementation Agency Control

 a. Implementation Organization

 In accordance with the requirements of the World Bank and FIDIC, the Project Employer grouped a
 capable and effective management organization and appointed the Xiaolangdi Engineering Consulting
 Company (XECC as the Engineer. XECC was formed from staff from several design institutes and
 construction companies. The Employer has fully empowered XECC in field supervision, management
 and certification for payment. The technical commission composed by the Employer's Canadian
 consulting experts and domestic experts has given valuable advice to the Employer in management.
 The Yellow River Commission Design Institute Xiaolangdi Branch, Reconnaissance Planning and
 Design Institute (RPDI) was responsible for the design of the Project and ensured timely and full
 communication between various parties. RPDI in China has been responsible for the design of several
 large dam projects and is highly qualified.

 A Dispute Review Board (DRB was set up in 1998 to facilitate prompt resolution of dispute related to
 the ICB civil works contracts. Both the Employer and the Contractors selected each one member of
 the DRB and the two elected members selected the chairman of the DRB.




                                                - 30 -

 The institutional setup for project implementation at Xiaolangdi proved to be one of the key successful
 factors for this project.

 b. Implementation Schedule

 The implementation schedule as established in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) established the
 commencement of the civil works in July 1994, river diversion by November 1997, commissioning of
 the first unit in January 2000 and the last unit by December 2001. Project competition was scheduled
 by the middle of 2002.

 This schedule therefore required building this complex scheme in 7 years instead of the originally
 planned 12 years; a very big challenge for all involved indeed.

 With joint efforts, reorganizations and other measures implemented by the different parties, inclusive
 by the Employer and by the MWR, the first objective of 7 River Diversionwas timely achieved.
 These major efforts resulted also in the completion of the inlet and outlet tunnels, plunge pool and
 spillway construction by September 2000, some 6 months ahead of schedule.

 The same applies to the civil works of the underground facilities (power house cavern, power tunnels,
 the main transformer chamber, the valve chamber, tailrace tunnels and outlet structures) which were
 completed in September 1999, 7 months ahead of schedule. Power conduits and penstocks were also
 completed in advance of the date required.

 During the implementation of the Project, many additional reinforcement measures were adopted in
 design for underground excavations and high slopes particularly for safety reasons and long term
 stability. Whilst this did not affect the timing it nevertheless became design adjustments resulting in
 variations and hence in the increase of some of the Project components costs.

III.    SUSTAINABILITY

Rationale
Great importance is attached by the Chinese government at various levels to, high construction quality,
reform and constant improvement of the management system. Subsequent auxiliary projects shall
guarantee the sustainability of the Project.

The Project is considered sustainable because all necessary conditions have been achieved and can
essentially be summarized as follows:
     1. The Project was completed in time and to the necessary quality and expectation;
     2. Key components subject to testing all performed satisfactorily;
     3. The Project implementation was structured following modern management practice and has
         already a proven record of working efficiently over the past 7 years;
     4. The institutional capability of YRWHDC has been strengthened in the course of
         implementation and
     5. Transfer of modern management was achieved over the past 7 years. The following elements
         also contribute to the sustainability of the project.

High Attention of the Government
The Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project is very important for the prevention of potential disasters
due to the Yellow River and is also extremely critical for the development of Yellow River water usage


                                                   - 31 -

and management. It plays an important role in the effective use of Yellow River water resources and in
ensuring stable development of the economy and the society in the lower reaches of the Yellow River. A
serious drought occurred in the Yellow River Basin at the early period of its operation. The actual
annual runoff of the Yellow River was only 60-70% percent of the design runoff. Adequate operation of
Xiaolangdi Project has under the circumstances nevertheless ensured water supply to the lower reaches
thereby ending the history of the river drying out in the lower reaches over many years in the past. As
such, in the year 2000 the Xiaolangdi Dam was able to supply some 2 billion m3 of water to key cities
such as Tianjin despite of a major drought affecting Northern China. Therefore, the Chinese
government at various levels pays great attention to the Xiaolangdi Project especially to its expected
role and function. This is the precondition to ensure the sustainability of the Project.

Quality
The Xiaolangdi Project has been checked preliminary and accepted in December 2002 by experts
grouped by MWR. In 2003, it will be completely accepted by the State Development and Planning
Committee.

Impounding acceptance results completed in 1999 showed that the Project quality is excellent in general.
At the preliminary operation period, it passed through the test of impounding to a level of 240.87m with
water and sand regulation. Test results indicated that each part of the Project was working properly and
as intended. The high quality of the Project lays a good foundation for its sustainable development.

Implementation of environment protection and water and soil preservation has effectively improved the
ecological environment nearby and also in the lower reaches by insuring continuous flow, enabling the
preservation of the estuary ecology. The provision of silt free water is another benefit. This also creates
good conditions for the sustainable development of the Project.

Management and Policy Framework
Management Framework

At the end of September 2002, the Chinese government issued a special implementation outline
regarding the structural reform of water management departments. Classification, qualitative
determination, management and sources of funds, etc. for these departments are clearly defined. This
establishes a basis for the constant improvement of Xiaolangdi management system and shall have a
great impact on sustainable development of Xiaolangdi Project.

YRWHDC has recently established a capable and highly effective management agency to ensure the
normal management of the Project. Following further system reform of water management departments
and carrying out of the compensation channels for social benefits such as flood control, etc,. the
maintenance fund required by Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam Project shall be guaranteed in terms of
policy.

Management System

Implementation of flood, sediment, ice and drought systems will improve the level of project
management and boost the Project benefits. The Project Management Agency has formulated various
rules and regulations, including operation specifications, project maintenance procedures, operation
systems, and system of responsibilities, to ensure well-organized management and smooth operation of
the Project. Adequate rules and regulations are the legal basis of adequate Project operation.




                                                 - 32 -

Policy Guarantee

To ensure sustainable utilization of water resources, the Government has recently issued the Law of
Water and a series of other laws/regulations, clearly defining the responsibility, duty, function and role
of water management agencies and providing specific measures for the long-term development of such
agencies. This provides a legal and policy basis for the sustainable development of water management
agencies and water projects.

Commercial Factor
In May 2000 YRWHDC signed an agreement with the Henan Power Bureau for sales/purchase of
power generated by Xiaolangdi to the provincial grid.
This agreement will allow YRWHDC to cover all operating costs, portion of repayment of loan
principal and interests.

The Government of China (GOC) realizes that Xiaolangdi will be a strategic project for water supply as
well as flood and sediment control, all of which have economic benefits that cannot necessarily derive
revenues from user charges. Hence the GOC will subsidize the operation of the dam, if it cannot meet its
final obligations.

Follow-up Project
Construction of the Xixiayuan Dam 16 km downstream, as a supporting project of Xiaolangdi, will
commence. This will help to make better use of Xiaolangdi benefits and improve its sustainable
development. Considering the operation mode of Xiaolangdi as a peaking station Xixiayuan will be able
to store water during peak production and regulate needed water for the lower reaches.

 Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
 As a State-Owned Enterprise, YRWHDC owns and operates all of the project facilities, the total staff
 right now is 524. It has three profit centers: Hydropower, irrigation and M&I Water Supply, and Flood
 Control. So far the main revenue comes from the power generation but expects to be able to collect
 fees for Irrigation and M&I Water Supply in future.

 Operation and Maintenance

 Procedures
 The technical operation and maintenance rules/procedures formulated and followed by YRWHDC for
 the dam/power plant operators are satisfactory and in line with the pertinent codes/specifications and
 regulations of the Chinese Government.

 O&M Plan
 As for the O & M Plan specified in the legal agreement for this project, a document entitled anagement
 and Maintenance Program for the Operation of the Power Plantwas prepared together with the 
 peration, Maintenance and Surveillance Manual for Xiaolangdi Dam Safetyand some related
 guidelines developed with the assistance of an international consultant team.

 Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP)
 MWR has entrusted YRCC to prepare the EPP for both Xiaolangdi and Sanmenxia Dams, as
 required by the Loan Agreement, with the assistance of YRWHDC. This has been based on the
 following documents:




                                                 - 33 -

1. O & M and Surveillance for Dam Safety January 2002 (2 Volumes), prepared by CIPM.
2. Threshold Values of Monitoring, July 2002, prepared by the RPDI;
3. Operation and Maintenance Manual October 2002.
4. Flood Response Plan Flood Information Center, YRCC

IV. WORLD BANK AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

World Bank
Lending: The Bank performance from Project preparation to implementation was highly
satisfactory.During the Project preparation, the Bank assisted in the following aspects via technical
assistance credits:

l Inviting foreign experts and consultants to review the Project;
l Establishing a system to identify the duties and responsibilities of the Employer, Engineer and
    Contractor;
l Determining procurement of the civil works by lots and the relationship between foreign and local
    contractors, to enable technical transfer and good international practices;
l The Bank has exerted special influence on developing a separate resettlement project and in
    defining the environmental requirement;
l Supporting the establishment of YRWHDC as a commercially independent entity responsible for
    construction of the Project, instead of Central Government Project Office as was the practice at
    that time in China.

During implementation of the Project Phase I, adjustment to the loan proceeds by categories was
always applied for YWRHDC and approved by the Bank in the right time. This helped implementation
of the Project. To meet the implementation schedule, the Bank arranged the second loan in a timely
manner to allow for the continuation of construction without interruption.

 Supervision: The Bank regularly supervised the Project and attached high priority to implementation
 issues related to technical, implementation, financial and environmental aspects. The Bank had 16
 supervision missions to review the Project. These supervision missions, headed by Messrs. D.
 Gunaratnam and Li Xiaokai, provided many valuable comments and recommendations on
 implementation of the Project, Clear and prompt responses to the questions raised by the Implementing
 Agency were received. A close cooperation with the Implementing Agency prevailed. All these
 contributed greatly to a successful Project implementation.
In the initial phases the Bank's supervision focused on technical and implementation issues. In the
later phases the focus was more on technical and environmental and financial matters. This included
promoting the creation of a Dispute Review Board and providing a workshop on claims. Overall the
Bank supervision brought significant added value to YRWHDC in ensuring the Project was on track
on all aspects. (financially, quality, schedule wise, solution to disputes, etc.).

Overall Performance: The Bank's overall performance is highly satisfactory since it was able to
guide YRWHDC to timely completion of such a large Project. By receiving the largest Bank loan in
China, involving a lot of aspects and Project components and encountering complicated conditions, it
maintained a good cooperation with the Borrower and the Implementing Agency. It moreover provided
adequate coordination for all parties to complete such a large Project on schedule and with some cost
savings.




                                                - 34 -

Borrower

Preparation: The Government and the Implementing Agency's performance in preparation of the
Project were highly satisfactory. The Government was very responsive to all comments made by the
Bank missions. YRWHDC was fully responsible for all the design and tender document preparation
with the assistance of foreign consultants. Most preparation work was done in record time of two years
to ensure timely start-up of the Project. YRWHDC invested considerable amounts of funds and
prepared the resettlement and environmental plans to very high quality, which was highly favorable to
the Bank Project appraisal and the implementation of the Project.

Government's Performance:          MWR who represented the Government for this Project played a
leading role at all stages of the Project preparation and implementation, and successfully coordinated
the understanding of various ministries and provinces of the Project objectives and components, which
greatly promoted the Project implementation.
Particularly in 1996 when there were delays of 11 months in the critical interim completion date with
potential serious consequences, MWR took critical measures to coordinate all parties and stationed a
vice-minister at the Site to ensure that the Project problems were solved and adequate counterpart
funds were made available for the Project. This ensured the achievement of river diversion in October
1997 as scheduled. MWR organized 27 meetings to review the Project at different stages to ensure that
any special issue that arose from design or implementation was solved. Overall the government's
performance was highly satisfactory.

Implementing Agency's Performance:            YRWHDC has successfully implemented both phases of
the Project. Its primary achievement was to meet all the milestone dates of the physical construction
and to ensure that the quality of works was excellent. The Project has been essentially completed one
year ahead of schedule and to high international quality standards. YRWHDC has been open to new
technologies and construction management techniques and able to adopt the best practice in terms of
organization and Project management systems. YRWHDC has successfully incorporated foreign and
local panels of experts into project management, which has greatly contributed to successful
construction management. When delays occurred at various stages of construction, YRWHDC was
able to promptly identify the problems on the critical path and take measures to solve them. The actual
project costs were less than that evaluated both by World Bank and the State Development and
Planning and Development Committee.
YRWHDC has a strong sense of project ownership and the overall performance is highly satisfactory.

Overall Borrower's Performance
The Borrower's performance is highly satisfactory because it demonstrated ownership of the Project,
completed a complex Project as Xiaolangdi one year ahead on schedule, with high quality of works.
The borrower is now deeply involved in ensuring that the project operation is successful.

V. LESSONS LEARNED

Xiaolangdi is the largest Bank-financed project in China and also a worldwide challenging project for
its huge size, predominantly large underground caverns, high degree of technical difficulties, and
complex subsurface conditions. The planned schedule was quite long, but it appeared rather tight in
comparison with the large quantity of works and the high degree of difficulty. Due to the special role of
the Xiaolangdi Project in the Yellow River flood control, the schedule allowed for no delay. The large
size of investment also represented demanding requirements for financial arrangements. Introduction of
international contractors challenged the Employer in terms of management and coordination. The


                                                 - 35 -

Project involved a resettlement population of about 200,000 people, which represented a hard task for
the Employer. YRWHDC also encountered many difficulties in the course of implementation. With the
support and solicitude of governments at different levels and the well-organized efforts of all parties
involved in the Project, however, major Project components have been all completed ahead of schedule
and within the cost estimate, and Project objectives have been achieved as planned. The Government
and the Implementing Agency's competence in respect of large-sized flood control project planning,
design, research, organization, management and implementation is remarkably improved. Principal
lessons learned from the Project include the following:

GOVERNMENT ATTENTION

The Government has shown adequate attention and solicitude to the Project, which is the precondition
of successful implementation. The SPC (State Development and Planning Commission) and MWR
were greatly interested in the project management and progress, with adequate support provided in
terms of policies and funds and independent and full authority given to the Employer in respect of
decision. These have ensured timely decision and an efficient management.

PROJECT MANAGEMENT

YRWHDC practiced the "Three systems" in project management, namely, System of Employer's
Responsibility, System of Bidding and System of Construction Supervision This provided institutional
guarantee for the success of the Project. While attaching importance to his leading role in important
decisions on management, technical and financial issues, the Employer also vested the Engineer with
full authority in accordance with the Contract and gave full play to his important role in project
management and contract administration. As proven by practice, this is more than important to raise
the level of project management.

Moreover, it cannot be stressed enough that a well designed and computerized project management
system is a basis for success. A document control system module, especially related to claims should
be a full part of the system. Such a system should be put into operation as early as possible in the
Project Implementation. Even if the contract is ICB , the system should be operable in both the contract
language (generally English in ICB) and in the Chinese language.

As one of China's few water projects implemented on an ICB basis, Xiaolangdi also encountered many
difficulties in initial management as a result of inadequate authority and improper decision. Based on
MWR correct and timely decisions, YRWHDC made important adjustment to his leading body and
adopted effective measures to completely offset delays, which placed a solid ground for the success of
river diversion in 1997 and final earlier than foreseen completion at lower cost than anticipated.

CONSULTANT SERVICES

YRWHDC paid attention to cooperation with local and foreign consultants. Many valuable suggestions
were provided by the Panel of Experts, Consultants and YRWHDC's Technical Commission.

EXPERIENCE AND COMPETENCY OF PROJECT ENTITY

Implementation of the Project provided YRWHDC with much experience in international project
management, design, construction and resettlement among other aspects, and also a large number of
competent managerial and technical staff. This is significant to modernize water development and


                                                  - 36 -

    management. Implementation of the Project made YRWHDC staff more competent to cooperate with
    foreign contractors and experts, and provided more opportunities for local consultants and contractors
    to be involved in international projects.

    MANAGEMENT AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION

    During implementation of the Project, claims by the Contractor and disputes between the Contractor
    and the Employer resulted from complex geological conditions, variations, delays, acceleration and
    subsequent legislation. These disputes were more than complicated and took a lot of time to solve by
    both parties. However, they were finally solved through discussions on the basis of DRB
    recommendations and mediations. DRB recommendations further provided a platform for discussions
    between the parties which finally resulted in an amicable settlement of the disputes. The introduction
    and functioning of the DRB process provided very valuable experience for use in other projects in
    China. Some adjustment to the Clause 67 of the General Conditions of Contract (Dispute Resolutions)
    might be required and useful for future use.

    The development of claims and disputes involved technical, engineering, legal and other external
    factors, but it cannot be categorically denied that the Contractor took full advantage of the ambiguous
    and inoperable clauses of the Contract. While emphasizing the Contractor's rights, these clauses did
    not provide adequate protection for the Employer. This is one of the reasons that the disputes were or
    became complicated. The major lesson from this is to provide clear and unambiguous technical
    specifications and contract documents for future contracts. Extreme care should be taken when
    formulating conditions or particular application- as allowed for by FIDIC-or special conditions and
    ensuring that both these do not contradict other standard clauses or create a situation where ambiguity
    is present, which can and will be construed against the drafter, i.e the Employer. Conformed documents
    should be prepared and made available to all parties.

    Claim avoidance or mitigation is another factor to consider and early resolution of dispute is beneficial
    to both parties. The longer the disputes drag on, the more complex and expensive it will turn out to be
    at the end. Early and prompt resolution of claims, disputes should therefore whenever feasible be
    addressed as early as possible, but requires a competent and efficient team, backed-up by higher
    management with adequate authority to make decisions.

    TRANSLATION AND COMMUNICATION

    In case ICB contracts are considered it is of the highest importance that proper translation and
    communications are provided in order to avoid misunderstandings. Improvement communication
    between various parties (owner, engineer, designer, consultants and contractors, etc.) is not simply of
    translation between different languages, but of communicating ideas and concepts across international
    boundaries of culture and training.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The EXIM Bank of the US which is the main co-financing partner has no comments.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                     - 37 -

10. Additional Information

Organisation Charts and Other Information


      Figure 1 XLD Environmental Management System



                          YRWHDC                            World
                                                            Bank




           Construction                 EMO/Dam             POE
            Department




            Engineer               ESE               EMIs




                       Construction Area (CEO)




Note: ---- = Coordination Relationship
      YRWHDC= Yellow River Water and Hydropower Development Corporation
      EMO/Dam= Environmental Management Office at Dam Site
      POE    = Panel of Environment Experts;
      ESE    = Environmental Supervision Engineer;
      EMIs = Environmental Monitoring Institutes;
      CEO = Contractor's Environmental Officer.




                                               - 38 -

                                          Figure 2 Organization of YRWHDC in 2002 for
Operation

Typical Organization Chart : Yellow River Water and Hydroelectric Power Development Corporation
Year: 2002
Figure 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            YELLOW RIVER WATER AND HYDROELECTRIC POWER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (YRWHDC)




                                            &                                                 Planning)                                                       Center                                                                                                   and                                                                                                         and
   Office                                                                                              &                                      Fund                                 Affairs                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (Including
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Insurance                                                                                                                                                                              Traffic)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Department)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Center
                                                                                                                          Department                                                                Department                                                                                       Department M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Staff                                                                                            Department                                                                                                                                                  Union                                                  Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            &                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Production                                                                          Security
         Central   Supervision Department    Business Management Department                             Contract                                  Includes                                                                                                                                                                   E                                                                                                                                    Working                                                                                                                      partment
                                                                                                                                                                                          Personnel                                                                       Production                                                                                                  Resources Environmental                              Waterborne
                                                                                                                                    Financial                                                                 Workers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Department                                                                                                                De
                                                                                                                (Former                                             Management's                                                                          Including
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     &                                                                               Technical                                                  Auditing                                                Department                                       CCP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (Former                                                                                                                                                                                  Workers                                                  Xixiayuan                                                                           Dispatching                                              Public

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zhehgzhou                           and
                                                                                                                                                              Functional Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CCP & Peoples                                                                      Project Management
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Department                                                                                                                   Dep.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Power                                   Bureau                Service                                                                                                                                                                        Logistic

                                                                           DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                 Engineering                                                   Company                                             Trading                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Zhengzhou
                                                                                                                                                          XECC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Plant                                                                                                     Headquarters                   Management                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Center                                                                                     Administration                                                        Departments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Company                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Department
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Beijing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Industrial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Xiaolangdi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hydro-Electric                           Resettlement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Comprehensive                                                                                                                         Luoyang                                      Production            Service
                                                                                     OPERATION


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Secondary Units




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - 39 -

  Figure 3                                                     System of Water Allocation for the Downstream Areas of
the Yellow River

                                                                  Yellow River water allocation decison support system




                                   roting
                                                                           treatment
                                         moni
    forecasting                                                                     task                          compiling
                                                                                                                                                             adjusting                                              service               dynamic

                                                                                                                                                                                                management
                                             situation                                                                     scheme                                     crisis
               resource                                                                 allocation                                         management                             management                                                     resource      simulation

                                                                                                                                                                            water                                          information
                                                                                                                                                                                                          adjusting                                      water
                       Water                                                                      water
                                                      Operation                                                                  adjusting




                                                                  Water adjusting application service platform (model base)



                                                               Data saving management platform (database and its management)



                                                                 Communication and computer net system (data transmition)



                                Information (whether, water quality, water diversion and drought situation)
                                                                                                          collecting system




                                Figure 3 System for Water Allocation for Yellow River Downstream Areas




                                                                                                                                                     - 40 -

Figure 4 Computer Network for Flood, Sediment, Drought and Ice Flood
Management.


                                                                                                    hwh computer net center     water allocation net


            11province
             Liujiaxia
              junction                                                                                                                     Henan Bureau net
           Longyangxia
              Junction
         Wanjiazai junction                                       Center                          center
                                                                exchanger                        exchanger                                              Shandong Bureau
                                                                                                    ?                          Informatio                     net
                                                                                                                                n center



                                                            communication                                                                                   Shandong bureau

                                                             management                                                                                      water allocation

                                                                                      PIX            edge exchanger                                              center

                                                              Work unit
                                                              exchager                ATM  ? ? ?

               Information
       net( DDN? X.25? PSTN
                   ? )

                                                                                                                                                              Henan bureau
                                                                                                                                                                  water
                                                                                                                                                                allocation

                                 edge                      slb                                               water                                                center

                               exchanger                                            Satellite              conservancy
                                                                                 communication                net                                      Guxian junction bureau
                                                                                      net                                                                Sanmenxia junction
                                                                                                                                                              bureau
                                                    water resource protection bureau                                                                       Luhun reservoir
                                                                  net                                                                                   Xiaolangdi reservoir



                                                                                                                                  hydrological
     hydrological                                                                                                                situation sub-               Optical fibre
        situation                                                                                                                 center under
   subordinate center                                                                                                             Sanmenxia                   Twisted      pair
    in the upriver of              hydrographic bureau net                                                                                                    line
       Sanmenxia                                                                                                                                              Remote line



                                                                        Picture 5.2-3 net topology




                                                                                     - 41 -

Picture 1. Xiaolangdi Intake Structure




              - 42 -

Picture 2. Dam and Outlet facilities




             - 43 -

Picture 3. Dam Body and intake




             - 44 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Development Objectives                 Flood damage within dikes is reduced from      Starting from year 2000, the flood protection
                                               2-year recurrence to 7-year                    downstream of Xiaolangdi Dam has reached
1. Reduce flood damage within the dikes and Catastrophic flood damage will be eliminated one-in-a-thousand years-floods. The
eliminate catastrophic damage from major       Eliminate annual flood damage of $91 million downstream ice flood hazards are eliminated.
floods-Indicators are:                         per year                                       All the common floods, in particular those
MWR annual report of floods                                                                  very frequent floods that could inundate the
                                                                                              vast flood plains where over 1.3 million
                                                                                              people live, are brought under control. With
                                                                                              Xiaolangdi dam put into operation, enormous
                                                                                              possible flood damage has been avoided.
                                                                                              Take the 1996 flood as an example. The
                                                                                              flood at Xiaolangdi was only 7,800 m3/s in
                                                                                              1996, much smaller than the design flood of
                                                                                              Xiaolangdi (Q=40,000m3/s), the following
                                                                                              damage occurred in the downstream areas:
                                                                                              (a) 251,000 ha of land (including 200,000ha
                                                                                              farmland) inundated; (b) 2.4 million people
                                                                                              affected with 800,000 people entrapped; (3)
                                                                                              estimated economic losses of Y6.46 billion as
                                                                                              reported by YRCC. Such damage would not
                                                                                              have happened with Xiaolangdi dam. In
                                                                                              August 2003 for a major flood of 1 in 60
                                                                                              years the entire damage downstream was
                                                                                              avoided. Flood damage for large and small
                                                                                              floods has been eliminated. The 2003 flood
                                                                                              of 1/60 years caused no damage.
Improve the safety of the dikes by sediment         800 km of the Yellow River dikes do not On sedimentation control, by end August
control and is key to the river safety and its have to be raised between 2000-2025            2003, a total of some 1 BCM of silt (see
assurance it does not divert.                                                                 figure below), about 14% of the storage
                                                                                              reserved for sediment deposit (7.55 BCM),
.                                                                                             has been trapped in Xiaolangdi reservoir
                                                                                              preventing siltation of downstream river
                                                                                              course. In addition, a in-situ sediment
                                                                                              flushing test was conducted centered at
                                                                                              Xiaolangdi July 4-15, 2002, resulting in
                                                                                              erosion of the downstream river course with
                                                                                              some 36.2 million tons of silt flushed into the
                                                                                              sea.
Improved performance of urban and             Industrial down-time reduced to 2 days/y due Over the past 3.5 years (2000-2003 June),
industrial growth through provision of water   to lack of water; Riverbed ceases to rise      the estimated incremental water supply by
additional                                    2001-2025.                                     Xiaolangdi with the benefits produced to
                                                                                             Shandong and Hehan provinces are as
                                                                                              follows: (1) M&I: 0.399 BCM ( or 8.2%;
                                                                                              Henan: 0.388, Shandong: 0.011), benefit of
                                                                                              1.197 billion Yuan. In 2000 alone some 800
                                                                                              million cum water released for Tianjin to avert
                                                                                              a major water shortage in the city. Overall
                                                                                              industrial downtime from water shortage has
                                                                                              completely been reversed
Improve Irrigation Water supply Industrial     Stabilize irrigation water so that grain and   Farm production increases will be about 1.2
downtime is reduced to two days/year due to cotton production increase farm income by         t/ha for grain from 3.8t/ha and 130 kg/ha for
lack of water                                 30% , labor productivity by 25% in             ginned cotton from 1t/ha. Grain production
                                               Henan.Grain yields will increase by 20%       increased by 32%; cotton production
                                               from 4.0 tons/ha to 4.8 tons/ha and            increased by 9%. Farm incomes from this
                                               production will increase by 0.515 million tons source would have increased by 33% from
                                                                                              Y16/day to Y20/day. Overall production will
                                                                                              increase by 1.6 million tons per year
Generate peak hydroelectric power             Power production increased from 1600 GwH Power production increased from 1600 GwH
for the Henan Grid which is essentially        in FY2000, 2700 GwH in 2001, 3100 GwH in in FY2000, 2700 GwH in 2001, 3100 GwH in
thermal base power and thereby reduce the      2002, 3700 GwH in 2003 and 4200 Gwh in         2002, 3700 GwH in 2003 and 4200 Gwh in
loss of downtime in industry                   2004                                           2004 and is expected to continue to increase
                                                                                              to 5800 Gwh by 2008 onwards




                                                                    - 45 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1                                    River diversion in 11/97                      River diversion took place Oct 1997.
1. Dam and Power house including               First generator installed by 12/99            All generators were installed by 2001.
Consultants services. Indicators are           Sixth generator installed by 1/2001           Reservoir started operation in Jan 2000 and
Supervision reports of YRWHDC and              Project completion by 2002                    power generation was also at the same time .
YRWHDC progress reports                                                                       Also in 2000 some 800 mil cum of water was
                                                                                              supplied to Tianjin city
Component 2.                                  1998-50 staff trained (finance/organizational 1998---58 staff trained operation of dam
Training Indicators are YRWHDC's progress management                                            1999---80 staff train in O & M and another
reports                                        1999-50 staff trained (as above)              81 staff on finance and management
                                               2000-50 staff trained (as above)                 2000--34 staff trained on dam safety and
                                                                                              another--145 on detail technical and financial
                                                                                              issues
                                                                                                 2001--120 staff trained on dam safety and
                                                                                              office automation
                                                                                                2002--174 staff trained on dam surveillance
                                                                                                2003---123 staff trained on reservoir
                                                                                              sedimentation and O & M and concrete repair


Component 3                                   Most EMP work was completed and                 Detailed environmental supervision was
Environmental Management and                  contractors had left the site. Detailed reports undertaken by YRCC Design Institute
Monitoring--Indicies are the monthly progress on dam implementation monitoring, dam           Environment Group. In addition monitoring
reports                                       safety monitoring was being undertaken by       was undertaken by YRWHDC the owner.
                                              the government and the environment              The Environmental and Resettlement Panel
                                              supervisors.                                    was spilt into two groups one for the
                                                                                              Resettlement Project and other for the Dam
                                                                                              Project. The environmental protection
                                                                                              measures undertaken were as follows:
                                                                                              -a) Dam safety monitoring
                                                                                              -b) Cultural relics restoration
                                                                                              -c) public health and worker safety in the
                                                                                              construction areas
                                                                                              -d) pollution control of air, water and land
                                                                                              areas in the construction site
Component 4                                   Most of the work for this component was         YRCC decided not to hire consultants but to
Flood/Sediment/Ice Forecasting --progress     already completed by the Government.            undertake to do the setup of the
reported in the twice annual progress reports YRCC the executing agency used its own          flood/sediment/ice/drought forecasting
                                              resources to develop and even go further        system.
                                              than what was required in the Bank              -The only consultants that were hired were
                                              component.                                      RPDI of YRCC for the downstream
                                                                                              dispatching of the flows especially in the dry
                                                                                              season which will ensure that water is
                                                                                              supplied for M & I needs, river is kept flowing,
                                                                                              and irrigation needs are optimally met.
                                                                                              -Flood forecasting which is highly developed
                                                                                              will use the existing system with YRCC
                                                                                              Hydrology Bureau working with the Flood
                                                                                              Information Center. All flood management will
                                                                                              be done with these two bureaus
                                                                                              -Sediment forecasting will be done by
                                                                                              YRCC-RPDI
Component 5                                   Consultants had already built a water           The water dispatch system for the Lower
Institutional support for YRCC to develop a   dispatch system and a State Council             Yellow River has 90 dispatch points
Lower Yellow River Institution                Regulation had been passed for YRCC             downstream. A Dispatching office has been
                                              institution to establish within Shandong and    established and a water fee collection study
                                              Henan Provinces to collect fees                 has been completed. In addition a state
                                                                                              council regulation is being implemented for
                                                                                              water fee collection.

1End of project




                                                                  - 46 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Major Civil Works                                         1150.44         1377.02           119.7
Minor Civil Works + Preparatory Works                      369.85          383.84           103.8
Electro-mechanical works + metal works                     253.07          150.70            59.6
Electrical Works                                           209.64          105.33            50.2
Administration and Engineering                             235.48          201.40            85.5
Institutional Support                                        5.06            4.59              91
Environment Management                                      10.10           13.80           136.6
Sediment/Flood/Drought/Ice Forecast Component               14.80           14.68            99.2


Total Baseline Cost                                       2248.44         2251.36
                        Total Project Costs               2248.44         2251.36
                          Interest during construction     607.40          437.40           72.00
                  Total Financing Required                2855.84         2688.76


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                         1142.98            0.00         0.00        372.16       1515.14
                                 (809.30)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (809.30)
2. Goods                          27.69             0.00        12.20        431.70        471.59
                                  (9.54)           (0.00)      (5.13)         (0.00)      (14.67)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        42.22        196.32        238.54
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (28.21)        (0.00)      (28.21)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00        10.12         0.00         10.12
Training and                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (8.28)         (0.00)       (8.28)
Environmental Monitoring
5. Other services                  0.00             0.00         0.00         13.05        13.05
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                         1170.67            0.00        64.54        1013.23      2248.44
                                 (818.84)          (0.00)      (41.62)        (0.00)      (860.46)




                                                - 47 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         1
                                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                           ICB                      NCB                          2              N.B.F.            Total Cost
                                                                                                    Other
  1. Works                                         1212.20                     0.00                  0.00                  345.31              1557.51
                                                   (726.21)                   (0.00)                 (0.00)                (0.00)              (726.21)
  2. Goods                                           1.20                      0.00                  0.00                  446.27               447.47
                                                     (1.32)                   (0.00)                 (1.15)                (0.00)               (2.47)
  3. Services                                        0.00                      0.00                  29.76                 199.69               229.45
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                (21.28)                (0.00)              (21.28)
  4. Miscellaneous                                   0.00                      0.00                  10.00                   6.93                16.93
  Training and                                       (0.00)                   (0.00)                 (0.67)                (0.00)               (0.67)
  Environmental Monitoring
  5. Other services                                  0.00                      0.00                                                              0.00
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                   ()                  (0.00)               (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                                   0.00                      0.00                  0.00                    0.00                0.00
                                                     (0.00)                   (0.00)                 (0.00)                (0.00)               (0.00)
      Total                                        1213.40                     0.00                  39.76                 998.20              2251.36
                                                   (727.53)                   (0.00)                (23.10)                (0.00)              (750.63)
  Capitalized Interest of $30 million is excluded from the table. If this included the total disbursements for Stage I and Stage two loans disbursed
  would be $780.63 million compared to the original loans of $890 million. There was a saving of $109.37 million which was cancelled in the
  second loan
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                            Appraisal Estimate                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      Bank            Govt.             CoF.            Bank           Govt.            CoF.        Bank       Govt.   CoF.
Major Civil Works                   818.10           332.30                           726.21          486.20                         88.8      146.3
Local Works                                          369.90                                           345.30                                    93.3
Mechanical & Electric Plt              7.90          393.21            74.00            2.47          371.00           74.00         31.3       94.4  100.0
Admin and Engineering                                196.00                                           199.60                                   101.8
Consultant Services                  24.50           12.40                              21.28          8.46                          86.9       68.2
Training & Inst. Develop               6.50           4.00                              0.47           2.34                           7.2       58.5
Environmental                          3.00           7.10                              0.20           13.80                          6.7      194.4
Management
Total                               860.00          1314.91            74.00          750.63          1426.70          74.00         87.3      108.5  100.0

  Notes: 1. US$74.00 million from Cofinancier, US Exim Bank for the Turbines.
  2. The Bank loan was $460 m stage I and $430 m stage II, total available $890 m. Total applied to the
  proejct was $860 m with anotehr $30 m for IDC. However, the final disbursed amount was $750.63 m and
  $30 m for IDC. Stage I loan was fully disbursed




                                                                           - 48 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The main benefits listed in the Economic Cashflow are the: agriculture benefits, municiple and industrial
water and hydropower benefits are derived using the optimization simulation model using a 90 year
hydrologic sequences. The prices for agriculture commodities were economic farm gate prices derived from
border prices for the three major crops: wheat, corn cotton and rice. Sidelines and off-farm values were
valued at local prices excluding taxes and transfer payment. M & I water was valued at tariffs paid for
water (Y1.2/cum) as a proxy for willingness to pay, although previous analysis shows that the value of
industrial water is about Y6/cu m and municipal water should be about Y3/cu. m. The value of hydropower
benefits were at current and forecasted tariffs of Y0.3/ KhWhr. Flood control and sediment control benefits
were based on similar methodology as in the PAD Annex 4. The discounted benefits are presented in table
1 and the economic cash flow is present below in Table 2.




                                Table 1. Discounted Benefits (Billion Yuan)

                                        ICR Mission         PAD      % of Total ICR/PAD
                                        benefits  Adjusted
                                             1994     1997      1997
                             Agriculture     5.81      9.87    12.089     30%        82%
                             M & I           1.14      1.94     1.717      6%       113%
                             Hydropower      3.63      6.17    16.536     19%        37%
                             Flood Control   6.70     11.39     7.345     35%       155%
                             Sediment        2.00      3.40     2.817     10%       121%
                             Total         19.28      32.77    40.50     100%        81%




                                                         - 49 -

                                                   Table 2. Economic Cashflow (Billion Yuan)

                     Agriculture                  M & I                Hydropower              Flood ControlSediment                                 EIRR            13%
         HN-VAGRSD-VAGRTOT-VAGR VA-M+ISMX-VAEGYXLD-VAEGYTOT-VAEGYFlood ControlSedimentTotal BenefitsCapital costsO & M CostsTotal CostsNPV
                2%         28%             30%           6%       0%         19%        19%         35%       10%      100%
 PV in Bil Y0.37          5.44            5.81        1.14     (0.00)       3.63        3.63       6.70       2.00     19.28       17.39      0.97    18.36         0.92
 1994             0            0               0          0         0           0           0           0          0         0      1.31           0     1.31       -1.31
 1995         0.00         0.00            0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       2.56       0.00      2.56       -2.56
 1996         0.00         0.00            0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       2.93       0.00      2.93       -2.93
 1997         0.00         0.00            0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       3.41       0.00      3.41       -3.41
 1998         0.00         0.00            0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.95      0.00       0.95       4.31       0.00      4.31       -3.36
 1999         0.00         0.00            0.00        0.00      0.00        0.00        0.00       0.99      0.00       0.99       4.13       0.00      4.13       -3.14
 2000         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        0.14        0.14       1.06       0.51      3.38       4.13       0.00      4.13       -0.75
 2001         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        0.45        0.45       1.09       0.51      3.72       3.95       0.00      3.95       -0.23
 2002         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        0.73        0.73       1.12       0.51      4.03       2.42       0.29      2.72        1.31
 2003         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        0.82        0.82       1.15       0.51      4.15        2.12      0.29      2.41        1.74
 2004         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.18       0.51      4.46        1.27      0.29      1.56        2.89
 2005         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.22       0.51      4.49                  0.29      0.29        4.20
 2006         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.25       0.51      4.52                  0.29      0.29        4.23
 2007         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.28       0.51      4.56                  0.29      0.29        4.26
 2008         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.32       0.51      4.59                  0.29      0.29        4.30
 2009         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.35       0.51      4.63                  0.29      0.29        4.34
 2010         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.39       0.51      4.66                  0.29      0.29        4.37
 2011         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.43       0.51      4.70                  0.29      0.29        4.41
 2012         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.47       0.51      4.74                  0.29      0.29        4.45
 2013         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.51       0.51      4.78                  0.29      0.29        4.49
 2014         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.55       0.51      4.83                  0.29      0.29        4.53
 2015         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.60       0.51      4.87                  0.29      0.29        4.58
 2016         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.64       0.51      4.91                  0.29      0.29        4.62
 2017         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.69       0.51      4.96                  0.29      0.29        4.67
 2018         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.74       0.51      5.01                  0.29      0.29        4.72
 2019         0.09         1.32            1.41        0.27      0.00        1.09        1.09       1.78       0.51      5.06                  0.29      0.29        4.77
 2020         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       1.84       0.20      4.61                  0.29      0.29        4.32
 2021         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       1.89       0.20      4.66                  0.29      0.29        4.37
 2022         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       1.94       0.20      4.72                  0.29      0.29        4.42
 2023         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.00       0.20      4.77                  0.29      0.29        4.48
 2024         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.06       0.20      4.83                  0.29      0.29        4.54
 2025         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.12       0.20      4.89                  0.29      0.29        4.60
 2026         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.18       0.20      4.95                  0.29      0.29        4.66
 2027         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.24       0.20      5.01                  0.29      0.29        4.72
 2028         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.30       0.20      5.08                  0.29      0.29        4.79
 2029         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.37       0.20      5.15                  0.29      0.29        4.85
 2030         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.44       0.20      5.21                  0.29      0.29        4.92
 2031         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.51       0.20      5.29                  0.29      0.29        4.99
 2032         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.59       0.20      5.36                  0.29      0.29        5.07
 2033         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.66       0.20      5.44                  0.29      0.29        5.14
 2034         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.74       0.20      5.51                  0.29      0.29        5.22
 2035         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.82       0.20      5.60                  0.29      0.29        5.30
 2036         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.91       0.20      5.68                  0.29      0.29        5.39
 2037         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       2.99       0.20      5.77                  0.29      0.29        5.47
 2038         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       3.08       0.20      5.86                  0.29      0.29        5.56
 2039         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       3.17       0.20      5.95                  0.29      0.29        5.66
 2040         0.09         1.14            1.23        0.33      0.00        1.02        1.02       3.27       0.20      6.04                  0.29      0.29        5.75
 \Discounting at 12%

Note: HN-VAG, SD-VAG represent the incremental value-added for agriculture for Henan and Shandong Provinces; VA-M&I is incremental value added for urban
industrial water; SMX-VA,XLD-VA are for value added for hydropower for Sanmenxia and Xiaolangdi hydropower stations. These values are derived from reruns of the
simulation models using the latest prices. Sediment and flood control benefits follow the PAD calculations when surveys were done in 1997 when the project were
appraised. These values were not changed but it is believed that most of the values could have been increased after 1996 flood damage values which were not available for
appraisal. The capital cost include the costs of resettlement which were completed at the time of appraisal.




                                                                                   - 50 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/10/97


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/11/1997                     Mission Leader/Water
                                             Resources (1), Economist
                                             (5), Dam Specialist (3),
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1),
                                             Environmental Specialist (3),
                                             Financial Specialist (2),
                                             Flood Forecasting Specialist
                                             (1), Sediment Specialist (1),
                                             Reservior Operations (1)


 Supervision

              06/03/1998                8    MISSION LEADER (1); DAM             S              HS
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); DAM/TUNNEL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); GEOTECH.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); HYDRAULICS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FLOOD
                                             FORECAST SPL. (1)
              11/02/1998                6    WATER RESOURCES ENG (1);            S              HS
                                             WATER RESOURCES SPEC.
                                             (1); DAM/TUNNEL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); GEOTECH.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              03/30/2000               10    WATER RESOURCES SPL (3);            S              HS
                                             CLAIMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (2);
                                             DAM/TUNNEL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); GEOTECHNICAL SPL (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPL (2)
              09/06/2001                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S              HS
                                             WATER RESOURCES SPCL.
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL SPCL.
                                             (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DAM SPECIALIST (1)
              11/03/2002                6    TTL, WATER RESOURCES (1);           S              HS
                                             DAM SPECILAIST (1);



                                              - 51 -

                                            WATER ENGINEERING (1);
                                            GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER
                                            (1); ENVIRONMENT
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (1)


 ICR
               10/03/2003             6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    HS
                                            WATER RESOURCES
                                            SPCL/ECONOMIST. (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPCL.
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1); DAM
                                            SPECIALIST/MODELLER
                                            (1) AND IRRIGATION
                                            SPECIALIST(1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             130                           650
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    50                          200
  Supervision                              64                          460
  ICR                                       8                           25
  Total                                  252                          1305




                                            - 52 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 53 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 54 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


  Origin            Title                                          Date
1 Bank Reports      Staff Appraisal Report                         March 25, 1994
                    Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project, Report
                    12339-CHA
                    Project Appraisal Document                     June 23 1997
                    Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project (Phase II),
                    Report 16274-CHA
                    Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project: Stage         March 11, 1997
                    II-Environmental Assessment Update (EIA/1997
                    Update)Prepared by Yellow River
                    Reconnaissance, Planning and Design Institute,
                    February 1997 (submitted to the World Bank
                    Board as SecM97-179
                    Report on the Revised Resettlement Plan and    February 1997
                    Implementation Progress, by Yellow River Water
                    and Hydropower Development Corporation and
                    the Reconnaissance, Planning and Design
                    Institute, YRCC
2 Bank    Mission Negotiations                                     1997
  Reports          Agreed Minutes
                   Supervision                                     1997-2003
                   Mission Reports
                   ICR                                             2003
                   Mission Report
3 Reports          Negotiations                                    1997
  Prepared      by Agreed Minutes
  Employer      for
  World      Bank
  Missions
                   Supervision                                     1997-2003
                   Implementation Progress Reports
                   ICR                                             February 2003
                   Borrower's ICR
4 Technical         Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.1             September 1994
  Reports
  prepared      by
  Employer      for
  Dam       Safety
  Panel
                    Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.2             September 1995
                    Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.3             March 1996
                    Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.4             September 1196
                    Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.5             March 1997
                    Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.6             September 1997



                                             - 55 -

                   Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.7                June 1998
                   Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.8                August 1008
                   Report Dam Safety Panel Visit No.9                September 2000
5 Dam      Safety Dam Safety Panel Report No.1                       October 23, 1994
  Panel Reports
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.2                      October 22, 1995
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.3                      March 27, 1996
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.4                      September 26, 1996
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.5                      April 10, 1997
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.6                      September 26, 1997
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.7                      June 12, 1998
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.8                      September 7, 1999
                   Dam Safety Panel Report No.9                      September 29, 2000
6 Other Pertinent
  Technical
  Reports
7 Pertinent        Report prepared for Orientation Visit             April 1998
  Claims and
  Variations
  Reports
  (Prepared for
  DRB
  Hearings/Visits)
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.1               August 1998
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.2               December 1998
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.3               March 1998
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.4               May 1999
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.5               August 199
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.6               January 2000
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.7               May 2000
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.8               October 2000
                   Report prepared for Site Visit No.9              February 2001
8 DRB Reports     Lot 2  R1 Price Adjustment for Local Labour      September 1998
  HEARINGS        BINDING
                  Lot 2 Referral: Diversion Tunnels;                February, 25, 1999
                  SUGGESTIONS
                  Lot 2 - R2: Diversion Tunnels - Excavation &      March 19, 1999
                  Support Extension of Time and Costs
                  NOT BINDING
                  Lot 2  R3: Diversion Tunnels - Extension of Time July 22, 1999
                  and Acceleration
                  NOT BINDING
                  Lot2- R4: Measurement and Payment of Fault ZoneFebruary 15.,2000
                  Excavation in Open Excavation
                  BINDING
                  Lot 2  Ann.B Diversion Tunnels Excavation &      June 16, 2000
                  Rock Support


                                             - 56 -

                     SUGGESTIONS
                     Lot 2 R5: Post-ICD6 Acceleration                  September 13,2000
                     BINDING
                     Lot 2  SS2: Diversion Tunnels Concrete Lining     November 14, 2000
                     Acceleration
                     SUGGESTIONS
                     Lot 2  R6: Indirect Cost, Overhead, Supplementary December 20. 2000
                     Expenses
                     BINDING
9  DRB Reports       Orientation Visit                                  April 18-23, 1998
   Site Visits

                     Report on Site Visit No.1                          August 23 September 1,
                                                                        1998
                     Report on Site Visit No.2                          December 7-15, 1998
                     Report on Site Visit No.3                          March 8-19. 1999
                     Report on Site Visit No.4                          May 31  June 12, 1999
                     Report on Site Visit No.5                          August 12-26, 1999
                     Report on Site Visit No.6                          January 23 February 3,
                                                                        2000
                     Report on Site Visit No.7                           May 4-14, 2000
                     Report on Site Visit No.8                           October 8-15, 2000
                     Report on Site Visit No.9                           February 11-22, 2001
10 Financial Reports                                                    1998-2003
11 Environmental                                                        1997-2000
   Reports Panel of
   Experts
12 Institutional                                                        1999
   Reports
13 Training Reports                                                     1997-2000
14 Monthly Reports Monthly Reports prepared by XECC and CIPM            Every Month - Submitted
                                                                        to the Bank
15 6 Monthly Reports 6 Monthly Reports prepared by XECC and CIPM        Every 6 months 
                                                                        Submitted to the Bank




                                                  - 57 -

Additional Annex 8. Compliance with Loan Covenants


                  Section  Covenant  Fulfillment   Description of Covenant                          Comments
Agreement                  Type
Loan             3.04        0       C             Dam Safety inspection arrangements for
                                                   Sanmenxia Dam
                 3.05(a)     7       C             Implement resettlement plan satisfactorily
                 3.05(b)     7       C             Coffer dam is not closed if resettlement lags
                                                   by four months
                 3.05(c)     10      Not yet due   Ensure water in damn does not go over level
                                                   265m before resettlement over
                                                   265m is completed
                 3.06        10      Not required  Transmission lines will be constructed for       Transmission lines
                                                   power grids to Shanxi and Hunan                  to Shanxi
                                                                                                    were not required
                                                                                                    and therefore
                                                                                                    canceled
                 5 para 1    5       C             Maintain project coordinating groups at all
                                                   levels

                 5 para 2    10      C             Undertake all technical assistance and training
                                                   for the institutional component
                                                   satisfactory to the Bank
                 5 para 4    9       C             Borrower/YRWHDC shall carry out a
                                                   Mid-term review

                                                   YRCC and Project Provinces carry out their
                 5 para 5    6       C             respective parts of the EMP

                                                   YRWHDC shall enter into a power sales
                 5 para 3    2       PC            agreement with power companies

                                                   Borrower/YRWHDC shall carry out a
Project          Para 7      9       C             mid-term review

                                                   YRWHDC shall enter into a power sales            Power sales
                 3.04        2       C             agreement with power companies                   agreement on
                                                                                                    principles is agreed
                 4.02        2       C             Financial covenant-debt service ratio

                 4.04        2       PC            Charge water rates to recover full costs
                                                   including depreciation and rate of collection
                                                   should not be less than 85 percent. It is being
                                                   negotiated
                 2 para 3    5       C             YRWHDC maintain its PMO with competent
                                                   staff with adequate numbers,

                 2 para 4    5       C             YRWHDC furnish annual financing plan and
                                                   implementation program

                 2 para 5    10      C             YRWHDC shall employ international panel
                                                   of experts for reviewing dam safety

                 2 para 6    6       C             YRWHDC shall: (a) employ intl. Panel of
                                                   experts for reviewing implementation of the
                                                   Environmental Management Plan (EMP); (b)
                                                   maintain an Environmental Management
                                                   Office. Acceptable to the Bank and (c) EMP
                                                   is undertaken in timely and acceptable
                                                   manner.
                 4.01        1       C             Borrower shall have records audited for all
                                                   financial project accounts including the
                                                   Special Account. Furnish to the Bank no later
                                                   than June 30 audit reports of the last year
C:      Complied with
NC:     Not Complied with
CP:     Partially Complied with




                                                  - 58 -

Additional Annex 9. Operation and Maintenance Plan and Emergency Preparedness Plan
Summary

1.      Procedures

The technical operation and maintenance rules/procedures formulated and followed by YRWHDC for the
dam/power plant operators are satisfactory and in line with the pertinent codes/specifications and
regulations of the Chinese Government. The newly revised technical manuals and specifications for
Xiaolangdi Project operation and maintenance include the following:

S       Specifications of reservoir regulation

S       Specifications of surveillance for hydraulic structures

S       Specifications of maintenance of hydraulic structures

S       Specifications of generating system operation

S       Specifications of maintenance of high voltage system

S       Specifications of maintenance of power protection system

S       Specifications of maintenance of automatic control system

S       Specifications of maintenance of hydro-mechanical system

S       Specifications of operation and maintenance of gates and hoists

The analysis of monitoring data is clearly specified in the Specifications of surveillance for hydraulic
structures. However, due to lack of personnel, this work was not carried out timely.

2.      O & M Plan

As for the O & M Plan specified in the legal agreement for this Project, a document entitled Management
and Maintenance Program for the Operation of the Power Plant was prepared together with the
Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance Manual for Xiaolangdi Dam Safety and some related
guidelines developed with the assistance of an international consultant team.

The O&M Plan which covers the following aspects and will be updated at appropriate intervals:

l General Project Information
l Institutional Setup and Financing Plan
l Operation
l Reservoir operational rules
l Sediment management
l Flood forecasting
l Flood operating procedures
l Emergency operating procedures
l Maintenance
l As built-drawings and reports (historical document)
l Performance indicators
l Preventive measures




                                                    - 59 -

l Instrumentation Plan
l Surveillance
l Standards
l Regular inspections
l Tests
l Emergency Operations Plan


3.       Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP)

The preparation of EPP for both Xiaolangdi and Sanmenxia Dams as required by the Loan Agreement,
MWR would entrust YRCC to prepare, with the assistance of YRWHDC, the EPP for both dams.

The Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP), is based on normal international as well as Chinese practice for
dam projects. It identifies the procedures and processes that the dam operators would follow in the event of
an emergency, such as e.g.

1.       failure of essential equipment such as flood gates,
2.       slope failure(s) having the potential to cause dam failure, or
3.       a complete failure of the dam caused by overtopping, earthquake or piping.

The EPP allows for planning by municipalities, army and local police, provincial agencies, telephone and
transportation companies and other parties affected in the event of a dam break flood, and the coordination
of efforts between provincial and municipal levels of government. In the event of an emergency, the EPP
will save lives and has the potential to reduce property damage by:.

l Hydrographic observation and flood warning scheme;
l Drawdown and flood control operation of reservoir;
l Emergency emptying of the reservoir;
l Inundation maps for flows up to the design flood, and for catastrophic conditions caused by dam
    failure;
l Evacuation of flood-threatened areas;
l Rescue operations and other emergency provisions;
l Equipment, material and support available for emergency relief;
l Coordination of emergency relief actions with third parties (for instance: civil defense, police, hospitals,
    etc.);
l Emergency standby of public utilities;
l Emergency operation of power plant, water supply scheme associated with the dam;
l Emergency warning;
l Emergency communication;
l Emergency transportation;
l Emergency access to the damsite;
l Emergency decision-making process and procedures.


The Response Level is summarized on the table below and details of the type of events are not provided in
the table as these are very extensive and are only in the detailed manuals.




                                                     - 60 -

                                                                   Type of Event
   RESPONSE                                                        Hydrological Event
      LEVEL          Flooding Emergency release from upstream reservoirs Earthquake Leakage causing internal erosion or piping Abnormal
                                        Instrument Readings Gate Failure/ power Loss/ Equipment Failure Sabotage
                                                                         Accident
Internal Alert       V:
The Situation can    I:V:
be managed           I:V:
internally. Outside  I:V:
notification is NOT  I:V:
required             I:V:
                     I:V:
                     I:
Response             V:
Level 1              I:V:
Conditions are such  I:V:
that they may cause  I:V:
downstream flooding. I:V:
                     I:V:
                     I:V:
                     I:
Response             V:
Level 2              I:V:
Prepare for          I:V:
Evacuation           I:V:
                     I:V:
                     I:V:
                     I:V:
                     I:
Response             V:
Level 4              I:V:
Evacuation is        I:V:
necessary            I: Major V: YES
                     I:V:
                     I: Yes V:
                     I:V: Major
                     I:
   V: Visual Observations
   I: Monitoring/Instrumentation Readings

4.          PERFORMANCE OF SANMENXIA DAM

Dam:

The Sanmenxia Dam was completed in the early 60s. In 1983, the Sanmenxia Project Management Bureau
was established, and has since been in charge of all the project structures, while YRCC is in charge of
reservoir dispatching. The dam safety monitoring center was established in Sanmenxia Project Management
Bureau. The basic O & M manuals and specifications for monitoring, inspection and surveillance are
available in the center, as required by the government rules on dam safety.

The dam is located in high seismicity region (with intensity of 8 degree). In order to improve the seismicity
monitoring work, a seismic monitoring station was established in 1978 at 3 km west of the dam. This
station is now included in the national seismic observation network.

Since the dam was designed against higher head and is now operated against lower head, there should be no
problem regarding the safety of dam including its stability, stress and deformation, etc. However, after
many years of operation most of the stress, strain and temperature monitoring instruments are either under
aging conditions or out of work.




                                                                 - 61 -

Replacement and renovation of key monitoring instruments not functioning as well as an overall dam safety
assessment is in progress.

Water releasing structures:

The water releasing structures at Sanmenxia consist of 27 items (excluding the hydro power units), namely,
2 tunnels, 12 deep outlets, 12 bottom outlets and 1 penstock. Sanmenxia Project Management Bureau has
been undertaking various repairs to the damaged parts of the tunnels and outlets.

Regular inspection and repairing of all the water releasing structures as needed will be conducted timely in
future so as to guarantee the functionality of those important works

Gantry cranes at dam crest:. The following problems exists:

l The lifting range of 72m is shorter than the 85m required;
l The present lifting load 380t exceeds the design capacity of 350t;
l At present, 10 hours are needed to open all 17 gates, which is longer than 8 hours as required by flood
    control dispatching;
l The two cranes were put into use in 1962 and 1965 respectively, their service life exceeded the design
    life of 35 years. Replacement and renovation of these cranes are urgently needed.

Operation of Sanmenxia Dam:

The guiding principles of operation and maintenance of Sanmenxia Dam are as follows:

l Conjunctive dispatching of the four reservoirs (Sanmenxia, Guxian, Luhun and Xiaolangdi) as
    managed by YRCC;
l Storing the clear water and releasing the muddy water so as to maintain sufficient effective storage
    volume of the reservoir for a rather long period, thus to exploit the comprehensive benefit of the project
    flood control, ice flood control, irrigation, water supply, power generation, sedimentation reduction and
    eco-environmental protection etc.;
l To maintain relative stability of the river bed elevation at Tongguan to protect the Weihe River plain;
l At present, monthly dispatching plan is worked out by Sanmenxia Project Management Bureaus. This
    plan will be timely modified through instruction orders issued by YRCC. Modifications are more
    frequent in flood season;
l From 1989 to now, the operation pool level in flood season is controlled at 305m. After 1993, the
    non-flood season pool level is controlled at 322m or lower.

EPP Sanmenxia Dam

The Sanmenxia Dam Management Bureau has studied the actions to be taken in emergency of strong storm
and in emergency of strong earthquake, which needs to be incorporated in the EPP for Sanmenxia Dam:

(1)      Actions to be taken in case of strong storms include:
l Analyze and compute the forces acting on the dam for pool levels 335m and 340m;
l Check the bearing capacity of dam for pool levels 335m and 340m;
l Plug all galleries vulnerable to the entrance of flood water;
l Guarantee the availability of stand-by power source and the reliability of E/M and metallic equipment;
l Utilize turbine units to help to lower the pool level;



                                                      - 62 -

l Evacuate people living under pool levels of 335m and 340m;
l Timely close or open the gates according to the flood information;
l Guarantee the safety of Xiaolangdi Reservoir and the downstream reaches of the Yellow River through
    real-time dispatching;
l Prompt and precise communication with the Yellow River Flood Control Headquarters;
l Prevent the flooding of power house by overtopping water coming from both downstream side and the
    upstream side.

(2) Actions to be taken in case of strong earthquakes include:
l Rescue operation and other emergency provisions;
l Equipment, material and support available for post disaster relief;
l Emergency communication;
l Emergency transportation;
l Coordination of relief actions with third parties;
l Emergency access to dam site and disaster areas.




                                                  - 63 -

Additional Annex 10. Loan Allocation and Disbursements

                                Stage I Loan Allocation and disbursements

                                                Revised
          Category              Allocation     Allocation     Actual Withdrawal    %
          Works ICB               386.00         410.49            414.47       100.97%
          Equipment & Materials    4.90           4.90              1.32        26.94%
          Vehicles                 2.53           1.06              1.06        100.00%
          Consultant Service       12.35         12.35              12.32       99.76%
          Training                 1.20           1.20              0.60        50.26%
          IDC                      30.00         30.00              30.00       100.00%
          Unallocated              23.02                                         0.00%
          Total                   460.00         460.00            459.77       99.95%


                                Stage II Loan Allocation and Disbursements
                                            $ portion
                                                Revised
          Category              Allocation     Allocation     Actual Withdrawal    %
          Works ICB               206.00         206.00            205.74       99.87%
          Goods                    4.75           4.75              0.09         1.96%
          Consultant Service       17.10         17.10              8.96        52.41%
          Training                 2.15           2.15              0.07         3.27%
          Total                   230.00         230.00            214.87       93.42%


                                Stage II Loan Allocation and Disbursements
                                            DM Portion
                                                Revised
          Category              Allocation     Allocation     Actual Withdrawal    %
          Works ICB               200.00         200.00             91.60       45.80%
          Goods                    0.00           0.00              0.00         0.00%
          Consultant Service       0.00           0.00              0.00         0.00%
          Training                 0.00           0.00              0.00         0.00%
          Total                   200.00         200.00             91.60        46%




                                             - 64 -

- 65 -

