Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20329
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(35540)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$145 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
May 5, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = Real
LCI.85 = US$ 1
US$ 0.54 = LC1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANA        Federal Water Agency                       LATEN      Regional Environmental and Social Unit
B/C ratio    Benefit/Cost ratio                       LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
BOD        Biological Oxygen Demand                   MAS        Ministry of Social Welfare
BOT        Built-Operate-Transfer                     NGO        Non Governmental Organization
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                O&M        Operation and Maintenance
CERH-MG  State Water Resources Council                OD         Operational Directive
COHAB      State Housing Agency                       PCU        Project Coordination Unit
CONTERRA Contagem Housing Agency                      PMBH       Belo Horizonte Municipality (PMC Municipality
of Contagem)
COPAM      The State Environmental Policy Council     PROPAM   Pampulha Reservoir Basin Program
COPASA    Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais     PROSAM   The Environmental Sanitation Program for the
Minas Gerais state water company                     Arrudas and Onca Basins (the official title of the
Project in Portuguese).
DEOP       State Department of Public Works           PSD        Private Sector Development
ERR        Economic Rate of Return                    RMBH       Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Area
FEAM        State Environmental Agency                SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
FRR        Financial Rate of Return                   SEAIN      State Secretariat of International Affairs
GMG        Minas Gerais state government              SEMAD    State Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable
Development
ICR        Implementation Completion Report           SEPLAN    State Secretariat of Planning and General
Coordination
IFC        International Finance Corporation          SLU        Urban Cleaning Agency
IFE        State Forestry Agency                      SUDECAP  Belo Horizonte/Contagem Capital Development
Agency
IGAM       State Water Resources Management Agency    SUDECOM  Contagem Community Development Agency
ISO        International Organization for Standarization  URBEL    Belo Horizonte Urbanization Agency
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Gobind. T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yoko Katakura



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                  10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                12
9. Partner Comments                                                               16
10. Additional Information                                                        16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                               31
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                             34
Annex 10. Industrial Pollution Control Program                                    36
Annex 11. Ex-post Assessment of Comprehensive River Basin Management Approach     3 7
Annex 12. Borrower's Final Evaluation Summary                                     39
Annex 13. Comments on ICR from Borrower                                           45
Annex 14. Map
This ICR was prepared based on the findings of an ICR mission that visited Belo Horizonte during March
20-24, 2000, as well as various contributions from the Borrower and the executing agencies. The ICR
mission was lead by Yoko Katakura (LCSFW), and consisted of Manuel Marino (ECSIN), Juan Quintero
(LCSEN), Joao Neiva (consultant), and Eduardo Abbot Linke (consultant). Paula Dias Pini (LCSEO)
provided the assessments on the resettlement component. Ronald Parker of OED also participated in the
mission as an independent observer. The report was reviewed by Gobind T. Nankani, Country Director
(LCC5C) and Abel Mejia, Sector Manager (LCSFW).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



Project ID: P006540                                      Project Name: Minas Gerais Water Quality and
Pollution Control
Team Leader: Yoko Katakura                               TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: April 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control   L/C/TFNumber: 35540
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: WY - Other Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 05/02/91                                 Effective:                   09/08/93
Appraisal:  07/07/92                                 MTR: 03/15/94             03/15/96
Approval:  01/05/93                               Closing: 09/30/97            09/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: MINAS GERAIS ST./SECRETARIATS OF ST.
Other Partners: Municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem, FEAM (the State Environmental
Agency), COPASA (The State Water Company)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Hussain
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                        Arneane M. Choksi
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                           Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:   Yoko Katakura                            Emilio Rodriguez
ICR Primary Author:   Yoko Katakura
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective was to restore the environmentally degraded basins of the Arrudas and
Onca Rivers in the metropolitan area of Belo Horizonte (population 3 million, about 400 Kni), and launch
a water quality improvement program in the Das Velhas River. Related, specific objectives were: (a) to
develop institutional capabilities for environmentally sustainable management of these basins, through the
introduction of modem land use incentives, cost recovery mechanisms, and an efficient legal and regulatory
framework; and (b) to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants of the two basins, through rehabilitation
and expansion of basic sanitation infrastructure, housing improvement, and park development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions of the project objective, which remained clear and unchanged over the life of the
loan. The "restoration of environmentally degraded basins" was understood by both the Borrower and the
Bank project team as multi-sector restoration, including flood control, erosion control, separate stormwater
drainage and sewage disposal, solid wate collection and disposal, environmental protection and improved
urban land use, and as not being limited to water quality or pollution control, as the project title implies.
The project was an important priority for the country and the sector, which had faced increasing problems
of water pollution and flooding in large metropolitan areas. Brazil advanced substantially during the 1970s
and 80s in terms of extending water supply coverage (from 50% to 86% in 1990), but environmental
infrastructure in the form of drainage canals, sewage networks, and treatment facilities lagged behind
(sewerage coverage 42%, sewage treatment 20% in 1990). As a result, large industrial cities like Belo
Horizonte faced serious problems with uncontrolled water pollution and flooding, exacerbated by
accelerated urbanization.
3.3 Original Components:
The project, which financed an integrated investment program to improve living conditions primarily for
low-income groups living in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area, consisted of: (i) completion of drainage
canals for flood control, and resettlement of low-income residents living in favelas along the flood- and
erosion-prone streams fed by the Arrudas and Onca Rivers; (ii) construction of sewage interceptors and
connections; (iii) construction of the first phase (primary treatment) of two sewage treatment plants; (iv)
urbanization of areas along the canals, including construction of access roads, parks, and a solid waste
management program consisting of both physical investments and environmental education programs; and
(v) an institutional component calling for strengthening of the state environmental agency (FEAM), studies
toward a new institutional and legal framework for water resources management in the state, an industrial
pollution control study, and implementation of an immediate action plan.
The project was designed as one of a series of pilot programs to implement the "comprehensive river basin
approach" forming the backbone of the Bank's Water Resources Management Policy (Water Resources
Management - A World Bank PolicE Paper, 1993, World Bank). Published in 1993, this document
consolidates the lessons leamed from past Bank interventions and best practices worldwide. The guiding
principles of the comprehensive approach are: (i) water resource management policies and activities need to
be formulated within the context of a comprehensive analytical framework that takes into account the
interdependencies among sectors, political jurisdiction, and protected aquatic ecosystems; and (ii) efficiency
in water management needs to be improved through more effective use of pricing, and greater reliance on
decentralization, user participation, privatization, and financial autonomy to enhance accountability and
improve performance incentives. Reflecting such principles, the project included a multi-sector and
multi-institutional investment program and an institutional and legal reform program
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
There was no major revision of project components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project objective was consistent with the CAS, which supported
policies and investments aimed at achieving environmentally sustainable economic growth and social
development in a context of macroeconomic stability. However, being a pilot operation, the project was
demanding, complex, and risky. It was demanding and complex because it required coordination among
multiple implementing agencies at the different levels of government, not only in executing multiple
physical interventions but also in carrying out the proposed institutional reform. It was risky because the
institutional and legal reform required consensus building and cultural change at all levels of government
and among users and other stakeholders.
Despite its complexity, the project was generally well designed, although the limited amount of information
and experience available at that time restricted the detail with which some of the components were
designed, a factor that led to delays in project implementation.
The safeguard policies applied to this project, OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OD 4.30
(Resettlement), are both considered satisfactory.  The project was classified as Category A and a full
environmental impact assessment report and a resettlement plan were prepared by the Borrower and cleared
by the Regional Environmental and Social Unit (then LATEN). The environmental mitigation and
resettlement plans as summarized in the SAR were adequate, and the mitigation measures for the major
civil works and compensation mechanisms were appropriately identified and described.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory. The project achieved its general objective, namely restoration of
the environmentally degraded Arrudas and Onca Basins. The two rivers are now less flood prone, sewage
discharges into them in the metropolitan area are largely intercepted, and land use in areas near the rivers
has been redefined. Trees were planted and parks and streets were constructed along the canals, further
reducing river bank erosion. Industrial wastewater discharges are now controlled, either through direct
treatment by the industries that produce them, or through connection of these industries to the COPASA
(the state water utility) sewerage network - after pretreatment, whenever necessary. Discharges into the
rivers after treatment, or into the network after pretreatment, are regularly monitored by FEAM (the state
environmental agency), which enforces discharge fees and discharge limits and keeps a cadaster of such
industries. In terms of the first specific objective, to develop institutional capabilities for environmentally
sustainable management of the two river basins, the project substantially achieved its goals.  A new
regulatory and institutional framework for the management of water resources in the river basins is now in
effect, the Das Velhas River Basin Comimission was created, and FEAM is now much more effective in
monitoring water pollution. A more detailed analysis of the institutional impact is presented in Section
4.5.
In terms of the second specific objective, to improve the quality of life for inhabitants of the river basins,
the project achieved its goal fully, exceeding the appraisal estimates. The project directly benefited: more
than half a million people (16% of them poor families eaming less than three minimum salaries) living
along the Arrudas and Onca Rivers, by providing better flood control, paved streets, and better access to
-3 -



public transportation; about two million people (12% poor), by providing recreational facilities; and
250,000 people (22% poor), by providing sewage collection and better solid waste management. Nearly
3000 families living in unsanitary conditions infavelas on the flood-prone river banks were resettled nearby
in organized housing units or were compensated to their satisfaction. The re-estimated project economic
rate of return is 27%, a figure that reflects the operation's satisfactory outcome, reflected mainly in
appreciation in land values as a result of project interventions. (See Section 4.3 below for further
discussion.)
As a part of the impact assessment effort, a beneficiary impact workshop was organized, with participation
by 34 community leaders and local NGO officials. The workshop, the proceedings of which are
summarized in Annex 8, captured many of the unforeseen benefits, as well as lessons learned.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Flood control and urban drainage component
This component is rated highly satisfactory. The expected outputs at the time of Appraisal were: (i)
construction of 7 km of a flood control canal on the Arrudas River; and (ii) construction of approximately
10 km of main canals, to complete the urban macro-drainage systems for the Sarandi, Ferrugem and Onca
Rivers.
The output exceeded what was expected, with only a limited cost increase. The project constructed 7.2 km
of a flood control canal on the Arrudas River, plus 8 km of paved roads along the canal; and (ii) 11 km of
canals and 11 km of paved roads along the Sarandi, Ferugem and Onca Rivers. Additional 6 km (18%)
of canals were constructed with a 10% increase in investment costs, compared with appraisal estimate.
Unit cost for canal construction was 91% on average of the unit cost estimated at appraisal. Other
benefits included: (i) removal and adequate disposal of close to 20,000 tons/year of solid waste, previously
discharged into the rivers; (ii) provision of alternative traffic routes for some 15,000 vehicles per day, and
reduction of travel times; and (iii) significant reductions in bus travel times, directly benefiting low-income
residents.
4.2.2. Municipal and industrial sewage collection and disposal component
This component is rated marginally satisfactory. The expected outputs included: (i) 72 km of interceptor
and pressure mains; (ii) 210 km of network expansion and 14,000 new sewer connections; and (iii) two
primary treatmnent plants able to treat a total 8.4 m 3/s of sewage (4.5 m3/s on the Arrudas and 3.9 m3/s on
the Onca).
The output of the sewage collection component exceeded Appraisal expectations. The project constructed:
(i) 130 km (69% more) of interceptor and pressure mains; and (ii) 282 km (34% more) of sewerage
networks and 22,000 (57% more) of new sewer connections. The unit cost was on average 10% less than
the appraisal estimate.   The marginally satisfactory rating derives from the fact that the two sewage
treatment plants had not been completed by project closing, and thus downstream water quality in the Onca
and Arrudas Rivers had not seen any improvement. The Arrudas plant (the larger of the two with 4.5 m /s
capacity) is currently under construction and the first phase, with primary treatment capacity, is expected
to be completed by October 2000, while construction of the second stage, with secondary treatment
capacity, will depend on the financial capacity of COPASA. The state government is still seeking ways to
finance the second treatment plant, on the Onca (with 3.6 m /s capacity).
-4 -



The failure to achieve downstream water quality objectives because of sewage treatment plant construction
delays was offset to some degree by the significant increase in the construction of interceptors along the
urban segments of these rivers with considerable health benefits as pollution has been taken away from
population. Water quality improvements were indeed achieved in the upper and mid sections of both rivers.
Thanks to the interceptors, over 2.6 m3/s of raw sewage no longer reach the rivers. This, together with
improved hydraulics in the drainage canals, reduces the possibility of stagnation, improves the physical
appearance of the rivers, and eliminates odors along the canals.
4.2.3 Municipal and industrial solid waste collection and disposal component
This component is rated satisfactory.  It consisted of: (i) studies for and improvements in solid waste
collection and disposal arrangements in Belo Horizonte, including rehabilitation of a composting plant and
biogas production installations, and purchase of collection equipment; (ii) studies for and improvements in
solid waste collection in Contagem, including purchase of collection equipment; and (iii) construction of a
sanitary landfill at Perobas, with special provision for the disposal of industrial hazardous wastes.
Thanks to the improvements made to the existing solid wastes system, including better maintenance of
collection trucks, training of operators, and improved procedures, Belo Horizonte's solid waste collection
operation improved substantially. Overall collection volume increased by 15%, with a 30% increase in
low-income areas. The Perobas sanitary landfill, in operation since mid-1997, handles 400 tons/day of
solid waste, and benefits 500,000 habitants in the municipality of Contagem, one of the main municipalites
in the metropolitan Belo Horizonte. Although the solid waste disposal situation has been greatly improved
with the elimination of an open dump, the ICR mission identified some pending environmental issues.
These include: (i) implementation of environmental mitigation measures at the landfill site to intercept and
evacuate rainwater runoff and allow leachate recirculation; and (ii) implementation of an industrial
hazardous wastes control program. The municipality has already hired a solid waste specialist, who has
developed an environmental control plan to be implemented throughout the year 2000.
4.2.4 Environmental protection component
This component is rated satisfactory. The expected outputs included: (i) restoration of river bank
vegetation, and development of public areas and recreational facilities along the Arrudas and Onca Rivers;
(ii) development of an ecological and recreational park on an island in the Pampulha Reservoir; and (iii)
resettlement of some 1,600 families.
In addition to the construction of canals, the project provided environmentally and socially safe for the
development of public areas and recreational facilities (soccer fields, playgrounds, etc.) totaling 400,000 m
, benefiting about two million residents, many of them poor, living along the canals. Development of the
Pampulha Reservoir Park proved not to be technically feasible. Instead, the project financed a botanical
garden which includes a nursery with a maximum capacity of 300,000 trees per year to be used for urban
revegetation programs in the metropolitan area. Apart from its cultural and recreational function, the
botanical garden also serves as a research outfit and contributes to regional species preservation programs.
The number of families resettled to allow canal and access-road construction was much larger than
expected, owing mainly to the increased length of the canals and the larger than expected number of
families living in the risk-prone area. By the end of the project, 2855 families were resettled into public
housing units constructed under the project, or took cash compensation totaling US$22 million. About
-5 -



one-third of the families chose the resettlement alternative, the rest opting for cash compensation. Eleven
housing complexes were built near the displacement areas. Ex-post evaluation surveys demonstrated a high
degree of satisfaction among those who were resettled and those who took cash compensation. In both
cases, the resettled population highlighted the benefit of no longer living in risky and unsanitary conditions.
Despite the high level of general satisfaction, the families stressed the need for improved health and
education services in their areas, obviously a matter that will have to be addressed in the future. A more
detailed discussion on the resettlement component is presented in Annex 8.
4.2.5 Environmental management component
This component is rated satisfactory. It consisted of: (i) studies to determine the existing degree of
environmental degradation in the Das Velhas River, including identification and registration of all pollution
sources, identification of altematives for protection of the river, and establishment of an adequate
monitoring and control system; (ii) an environmental education program in the project area; (iii)
characterization/inventory/evaluation of all industries in the area, design of an industrial water pollution
prevention plan that would cover the necessary engineering for off-site treatment, and formulation of
recommendations to the authorities on actions needed to promote in-house pre-treatment and connection of
industries to the sewerage system; (iv) institutional strengthening of FEAM; (v) studies, recommendations
and actions for establishment of the Das Velhas River Authority; (vi) a training program for the executing
agencies; and (vii) purchase of laboratory and other equipment.
Contrary to what was assumed at appraisal, the studies to determine the existing degree of environmental
degradation in the Das Velhas River found that investments in sewage interceptors and collectors could be
expanded and plans for sewage treatment plants shelved for ten years without any further decline in water
quality, thanks to the river's assimilative capacity. Also as a result of the project, a water quality
monitoring and control system was established within FEAM. Initially focused on the Das Velhas River,
this system was expanded to cover the entire state of Minas Gerais. Using water quality indexes, the
program has produced three water quality reports and maps for the Das Velhas Basin and one for the entire
state.
A detailed analysis of industrial pollution found that it was responsible for only 8% of total organic
pollution load, a much lower figure than assumed at appraisal. On the basis of the results of this study, a
short-term priority action plan targeting the largest polluters responsible for 80% of industrial pollution
was developed and successfully implemented. COPASA and FEAM are now expanding the program to all
remaining industries. A more detailed discussion on the industrial pollution control study and the related
action plan is presented in Annex 10.
The steps taken to strengthen FEAM, the state environmental agency, consisted of: (i) diagnosis of its
institutional capacity; (ii) development of an organizational manual; (iii) review of its physical and human
resources needs; (iv) a training program; (v) development and implementation of a financial management
system, a multi-year environmental policy plan, and an integrated action plan with monitoring system, plus
introduction of total quality control.  All the planned activities were carried out. FEAM, though still
leaving much to be desired, is now much more technically prepared and proactive when dealing with
industrial water pollution, much more efficient in the licensing of processes and dissemination of
information on environmental regulations, better equipped, and better at information management. FEAM
is slowly abandoning a strictly command and control approach to pollution control and adopting an
approach which relies more on strategic partnership and systems such as ISO 14000.
-6 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return estimated at appraisal was 45% (with B/C ratio of 1.7). On completion of the
project, the ERR was re-estimated at 27% (with B/C ratio of 1.3), on the basis of the latest actual cost
figures and updated benefit projections, which reflected the impact of changes made during implementation.
Underlying assumptions regarding costs, benefits, and methodology are presented in Annex 3; rates were
calculated by the same methods used at appraisal, with some adjustments (explained in the Annex). In the
absence of quantifiable benefits from health improvements and of other quality of life indicators,
appreciation in land values was used as a proxy for the economic benefits accruing from the major project
inputs (drainage, solid waste disposal, and sewerage). The re-estimated ERR is lower than the appraisal
estimate because: (i) the area of impact was over-estimated at appraisal; and (ii) appreciation in land values
was not as high and did not occur as soon as expected. There may be higher project-related appreciation in
land values in the future, but the currently available data have been used, in the interests of a conservative
approach. In the calculation of costs, all costs, including incidental, non-project costs (e.g., state
government cash compensation paid to resettled families, cost of land, etc.), were taken into account.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return estimated at appraisal was 6% (with B/C ratio of 0.57) under conservative
scenario A, and 8% (with B/C ratio of 0.71) under more realistic scenario B.  On completion of the
project, the FRR was re-estimated at -0.7% (with B/C ratio of 0.35) under scenario A and 1.2% (with B/C
ratio of 0.43) under scenario B. Underlying assumptions regarding financial costs and benefits and general
methodology are presented in Annex 3. The low rates reflect the fact that full cost recovery on drainage
canals, roads, parks, solid waste investments, and O&M expenses is difficult to achieve on the basis of
incremental tax revenue alone. At least, this revenue is estimated to be sufficient to cover O&M costs.
The rates for the sewerage component are also low, because COPASA's sewerage tariffs (collection and
treatment) are currently capped at 100% of water tariffs. Assuming the current efficiency level of
COPASA to be constant, the current sewerage tariff would need to be increased by approximately 20% to
cover the investment cost of the sewage treatment plants, if COPASA were to achieve full cost recovery
from the users. Without the treatment plants, the sewerage component has an acceptable FRR of 16%
(B/C ratio of 1.35) under scenario A and 17% (B/C ratio of 1.58) under scenario B. Despite the tariff
increases implemented to cover the cost of the project (one of the project conditionalities), and although
COPASA is a relatively efficiently managed public water company, the recent devaluation of the local
currency had a large impact on its financial health, as domestic interest rates rose, and a substantial amount
of its debts are denominated in US dollars. This implies that COPASA may need either to increase the
tariffs further or to substantially improve its operational efficiency (reduce operating costs) to maintain its
financial health, if it were to proceed with the construction of the two treatment plants as planned.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was substantial, though it took much longer than expected to make itself
felt. At appraisal, the impact projected included: (i) clarifying state and municipal responsibilities for
issuing laws and regulations on environmental protection of the river basins; (ii) setting up an institutional
framework to integrate state and municipal participation in the inter-disciplinary management of the river
basins; (iii) developing market mechanisms to control environmentally damaging land use; (iv) introducing
innovative cost recovery instruments; (v) establishing mechanisms for industrial pollution control; (vi)
strengthening of the state environmental agency (FEAM); (vii) promoting NGO participation to enhance
project effectiveness and encourage environmental education; and (viii) introducing adequate water quality
monitoring programs and environmentally sound O&M practices.
The project achieved much of the institutional impact that was foreseen. In addition to strengthening
FEAM  and establishing mechanisms for industrial pollution control and a State-wide water quality
-7 -



monitoring system, as indicated in section 4.2.5., the project was pivotal to the development and approval
of the state Water Resources Management Policy Law. The law, drafted under project auspices and
approved by the state parliament in 1999, clarifies the responsibilities of not only the state and
municipalities but also other key agencies. The brown, blue, and green environmental agendas are now
handled by FEAM (the state environmental agency), IGAM (the state water resources agency), and IFE
(the state forestry agency), respectively. Besides defining the responsibilities and functions of the State
Water Resources Council (CERH-MG), the State Secretariat of Environment (SEMAD), river basin
commissions and agencies, and other stakeholders, this legislation also introduces the concept of water use
and pollution fees, though these fees are not yet in effect, pending the issue of federal regulations.
Although a river basin management agency has not been created as expected at appraisal, a river basin
commissions for the Das Velhas River, the more important policy setting entity was increated, with
stakeholder participation. A more dtailed discussion on water resources management is presented in Annex
11.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major devaluation of the local currency against the US dollar toward the end of the project period
affected outcome. Early in 1999, Minas Gerais declared a moratorium on its debt obligation to the federal
government, and the Bank suspended all loans to the state, including this project loan. As the state's
financial situation worsened and investors lost confidence in it, the likelihood of negotiating private
financing for the sewage treatment plants, as agreed at the mid-term review in 1996 (see Section 5.4
below), also dwindled.
Another factor that affected project outcome was the slow pace of water resources management policy
reform at the federal government level. The National Water Resources Management Law enacted in 1997
prescribes the principles that were to guide all river basin management laws in Brazil. It introduces the
concept of treating water as an economnic good, collection of water use and pollution fees, and water
resources management at the river basin level. Since then, however, the reform has been only gradual. A
proposal to create a Federal Water Agency (ANA), which would set more specific rules on water resources
management, including water use charges and pollution fees, is still awaiting Congressional approval.
Meanwhile, although various states have already approved their own water resources management laws,
others have been reluctant to do so in the absence of clear federal guidelines.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Borrower and other project participant ability to provide counterpart funds affected project performance
early in the implementation process. At appraisal, the state government, COPASA, the municipality of Belo
Horizonte, and the municipality of Contagem committed themselves to providing 17%, 26%, 7%, and 3%
of counterpart funds, respectively, for a total of US$162.6 million. By the second year of the project, it was
clear that state and municipal governments were in financial trouble and unable to provide the required
counterpart funds.
On the other hand, the Government's commitment to the project and the appointment of capable
coordination staff in 1995 were the keys to the eventual success of the implementation process. Despite the
institutional complexity of this type of multi-sector, multi-institutional urban intervention, the Government
succeeded in coordinating the project activities effectively.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As an integrated river basin project, the project involved several implementing agencies (see Annex 1),
whose implementation capacities varied. Some had capable staff with ample experience in project
- 8 -



management, others had staff with only limited experience. Limited experience resulted in long delays in
preparing terms of reference and bidding documents, and corresponding delays in awarding contracts.
Although capable technical staff hired by the central Project Coordination Unit (Secretariat of Planning)
helped the weaker agencies, some important studies were nonetheless delayed considerably
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
In general, cost changes were not significant. Actual cost was 97% of the figure estimated at appraisal,
despite the fact the project achieved much more than planned where physical targets were concerned. The
main changes from the original plan were a cost increase in the flood control and urban drainage
component, a cost reduction in the sewage interceptors and collection component, and a substantial cost
increase in the environmental management component.
Costs for the flood control and urban drainage component increased, despite lower unit costs, mainly
because the operation became much larger than planned at appraisal. On the other hand, the cost of the
sewerage network component was reduced, despite a much larger operation than originally planned; this is
explained by a substantial reduction in unit costs, thanks to price stability, following introduction of the
Real Plan, and increased competition. The cost increase in the environmental management component can
be explained by the expanded scope of work needed to ensure development of the institutional framework
for river basin management. In 1997, US$5 million of the Bank loan was canceled to adjust for the unit
cost reduction in the Bank-financed portion of the project.
Implementation and disbursement delays were significant, owing mainly to the Borrower's counterpart fund
shortage problem in the earlier years of the project period. Because the first disbursement was not made
until almost two years after project signature, it actually took seven years to complete the Bank-financed
portion of the operation, and a further two years are needed to complete the full project plan, including the
sewage treatment plants. The original time frame projected at appraisal was five years.at mid-term review
in 1996, a major financial restructuring plan was agreed upon to solve the counterpart fund shortage
problem. The state government, through COPASA, would finance the two sewage treatment plants fully,
through Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) arrangements with private sector funds, and in return the Bank
would increase its cost sharing in other components to 69%. In parallel, the government and COPASA
agreed that COPASA would lend US$58.5 million to the government to cover the latter's counterpart fund
contribution to the project. The contributions from the municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem
were reduced to minimal level.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated likely.
The sustainability of the project is rated likely because: (i) the institutional and legal reforms initiated under
the project are well advanced and expected to continue; and (ii) the project executing agencies are
committed to continuing the efforts started under the project, and to maintaining the physical infrastructure
built as part of it.
The state government is committed to continuing its efforts in water quality and pollution control, as
evidenced by the passage of its new Water Resources Management Policy Law. The policy environment is
now much more conducive to implementation of the comprehensive river basin management approach.
The strategy for managing water quality and pollution control in the river basins is no longer a localized
effort, but a national policy, as outlined in the Federal Water Resources Law enacted in 1997. The whole
-9-



country is moving rapidly in adopting sound Water Resources Management, which have been adopted in
many other major states, including Ceara, Sao Paulo, Parand, and Bahia. The most difficult phase of the
reform, namely introducing a new concept, building consensus among the main stakeholders, and
developing and adopting the right legal framework, has been completed
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Upon completion, drainage canals, parks, and streets were transferred from the state government to the
municipalities for operation and maintenance. The municipalities already have specific institutional and
budgetary arrangements to maintain and operate this infrastructure. O&M costs are fully recovered through
municipal taxes and fees. Although the parks are primarily the responsibility of the municipalities, a
majority of them are or will be maintained and managed by local businesses and interest groups (such as
local soccer fan clubs) under agreements negotiated with the municipalities. Arrangements of this type
enhance the sustainability of the parks, as they give users a sense of ownership. In an attempt to continue
the environmental education movement started as part of the project, the municipalities are trying to involve
the Secretariat of Education; they regard these efforts as important in prolonging the life of the
infrastructure built under the project and reducing O&M costs.
Project sewerage networks and sewage treatment plants will be operated and maintained by COPASA.
COPASA operations personnel are experienced technical specialists who can operate and maintain these
assets with minimal additional training. In the case of the treatment plants, COPASA has included within
the equipment supply contract a training program for the first six months of operation. Issue remains,
however, in terms of how well COPASA can recover the investment and operating costs of the wastewater
treatment plants, as residential customers will be charged no additional tariffs for sewage treatment. Once
these plants are completed, industries will pay additional treatment charges depending on their volume and
pollution loads, but these are not expected to defray any substantial part of overall investment and O&M
costs.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory.  Seven missions visited Belo
Horizonte during the preparation, appraisal, and negotiation phases, complemented by a few missions by
the Borrower to Washington D.C. Appraisal was conducted by a high quality multi-disciplinary team
consisting of a sanitary engineer, a water resources management specialist, an economist and an
environmental specialist.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory, given the limited supervision budget and the
complexity of the project. Supervision team was in general proactive, gave adequate advice, worked with
the Borrower and the executing agency closely, and proved flexible and sometimes innovative in providing
solutions to implementation problems.
Numerous supervision missions were conducted (eight in 1994 alone), complemented by equally frequent
missions by the Borrower to Washington D.C. Most missions consisted of the task manager and one or
two specialists in one of the relevant fields. Given the limited supervision budget, supervision team
strategy was always to focus on selected issues, depending on the needs of the project in a given
implementation phase such as resettlement, water resources management, or private sector participation
(BOT). Ideally, considering the complexity of the project, the teams visiting the field should more often
have been multidisciplinary; problems would then have been detected well beforehand, and the dialogue
-1 0 -



with the Borrower would have been continuous.
A good example of supervision team flexibility was the suggestion at the mid-term review point that the
project be restructured. The solution to the counterpart fund problem agreed on between the project team
and the Borrower was innovative at the time. By building the wastewater treatment plants under a BOT
arrangement, thereby mobilizing private sector funds and technology, it appeared that all parties would
come out ahead: the Borrower would need to put up less counterpart funding, the treatment plants would
be built with the latest technology with potential cost savings, and the project scope would not change. In
hindsight, however, the strategy proved to be highly risky, as shown in Section 8 below (Lessons Learned).
On the other hand, supervision teams could have taken a tougher stance when faced with critical problems
such as performance failures on the part of the Project Coordination Unit, counterpart funding shortages,
and delays in construction of the sewage treatment plants. In general, supervision teams identified
problems early but solutions came with some delays, perhaps as a result of giving the Borrower too much
time, until the situations became urgent. Loan covenants could also have been used more effectively.
When the decision on the BOT arrangement was delayed, the Bank sent a letter threatening informal
suspension, but never executed the suspension, accepting the Borrower's written commitment (and not
action) as adequate.
While this project was being implemented, the Bank introduced a policy of emphasizing the amount/pace of
disbursements as a measure of project success. This gave project supervision teams and the Borrower in
this particular case the wrong incentives, prompting them to focus their efforts on physical progress with
the project, sometimes at the expense of complex institutional reforms which involved relatively small sums
of money.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The project, a pilot program to introduce integrated river
basin management, faced numerous expected and unexpected political, institutional, legal, and financial
problems. In hindsight, with the information and experience available today, the Bank could have designed
and prepared the project better, especially by identifying risks better and designing a better risk mitigation
plan. Bank supervision teams could have been more proactive, and utilized the leverage of legal covenants
more effectively. On average, however, the Bank team performed adequately, given both the pilot nature
of the project - which meant that a "leaming by doing" situation was a constant - and the limited amount
of experience the Bank as an institution had had in implementing this kind of an operation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.   The Borrower provided a highly
committed technical team to prepare the project. The Borrower's staff spent significant amounts of time
with the Bank preparation team in both Belo Horizonte and Washington to complete the analysis and
discuss project scope, objectives, components and implementation arrangements, thus guaranteeing their
sense of ownership in the operation to a large degree.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The state government's implementation performance was mixed. In terms of sector policy, despite the
changes in administrations, there was government support for an integrated river basin management policy
throughout the project implementation period, as evidenced by the confirmation of the Water Resources
- 11 -



Management Policy Law early in 1999, just after the current government took office. In terms of
counterpart funding including funding for resettlement, the state government, and other project participants,
performed poorly at the outset. Although it did provide sufficient counterpart funding after the financial
restructuring at the mid-term review point, the state government has not yet completed its obligation to
construct the two wastewater treatment plants.   Furthermore, its indecisiveness and weak political
commitment to private sector participation in the operation and construction of the treatment plants was a
major setback to the construction of the two facilities under BOT arrangements, as had been agreed at the
mid-term review.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated satisfactory. After the Project Coordination Unit
was transferred to the State Secretariat of Planning from BDMG, the State Development Bank, in 1995,
coordination of the operation went smoothly. Although some of the numerous executing agencies lacked
experience with project management of this kind, the PCU provided adequate support. The PCU played a
critical role in facilitating coordination among the different implementing agencies. In addition, helped by a
long-term technical assistance contract with an independent consulting firm, it also ensured the continuity
of the project implementation process despite various changes of government.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout the implementation period, the Borrower
maintained strong commitment to attainment of the project objectives. Once the counterpart fund shortage
problem was solved, implementation went smoothly, thanks to good project coordination and strong
commitment by the implementing agencies.
8. Lessons Learned
Proiect Desiffn and Policy Implications
Despite the inherent complexities involved in implementing a multi-sector and multi-institutional project,
the Project achieved substantial development impact as described above. The project indeed confirmed that
it is worthwhile to pursue the comprehensive water resources management approach. As a pilot project to
implement such an approach, however, numerous lessons, that can be applied to future projects, were
learned.
Project Objective
*  A clear distinction should be made between a long-term project/program goal and a short- to
medium-term project objective which can be realistically achieved within the project timeframe. This is
especially so when major policy and institutional reform is called for.
Although the project contributed largely to environmental recovery and institutional and legal reform, much
needs to be done to complete these efforts. Setting more modest short- to medium-term project objectives
would have provided a more realistic sense of project achievements vis-A-vis longer-term program goals.
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
*  Monitoring and evaluation indicators should be better designed to capture the impact of incremental
and partial project intervention. A baseline survey should be conducted to compare the situation before
and after project intervention.
- 12-



The monitoring indicators defined at appraisal were not adequate for judging either achievement of project
objectives or project outputs.  They consisted mainly of input indicators (see Annex 1), few of which
effectively showed the impact the project had on environmental recovery in the Arrudas and the Onca or on
the quality of life of the population living near these rivers. The only impact indicator was of the water
quality in the lower segments of the rivers, which depended on completion of the sewage treatrnent plants.
Despite the fact that substantial improvements in water quality in the urban (upper- and mid-) segments of
the rivers were verified by the ICR mission, they cannot be quantified in the absence of baseline data.
Likewise, quality of life indicators such as incidence of flooding, flood damage, infant mortality and
morbidity, traffic accessibility, etc. could have been used to show the improvements, had a baseline survey
been done.
Comprehensive Water Resources Management Approach
The project was complex and risky, a reflection of the complexities inherent in efforts to address the
multiple dimensions of the brown environmental agenda and to implement the comprehensive water
resources management approach. A question should be asked whether this complex approach is
worthwhile in future projects of this nature. Both Bank and Borrower experiences suggest that it is not
effective, especially in terms of sustainability, to go back to the conventional approach of isolated
interventions and pollution control measures, which involves political and administrative units using a
command and control approach (as opposed to river basin agencies using economic incentives).
If future projects are also going to adopt the comprehensive river basin approach, the following lessons
should be incorporated into the project design and preparation process:
-   The project should be a part of a long-term strategic program. Considering the complex nature of the
institutional and legal reform that is usually required, a phased approach with a medium- to long-term
planning horizon is a more appropriate project design choice. As to choice of Bank lending instrument,
an Adaptable Program Lending approach would be more suitable
* To facilitate creation of the river basin agency, introduction of water use and pollution fees, and
drafting and enactment of the necessary legal framework, the project should: (i) make budget provision
(in the form of seed money) for the agency, until it can demonstrate its value, credibility, and capacity
to collect water use and pollution fees; (ii) promote creation of a transitional institution or "embryo"
unit that would take the lead in the creation of the agency; (iii) ensure that users and communities are
well informed; and (iv) ensure that the legal covenants applicable are realistic and so do not affect the
consensus building process adversely.
*   Project Coordination Unit personneVagency should be selected not only on technical qualifications, but
also on capacity to coordinate a range of government agencies at different levels and to lead the reform
agenda. This is an important lesson, considering the close multi-sector, multi-agency coordination
required in implementing a project of this nature.
Identification of Risks and Mitigating Measures
* Risks, especially those not within Borrower or implementation agency control, should be identified and
addressed up-front ( at appraisal and at mid-term restructuring), and realistic targets should be set
accordingly.
- 13 -



Although some of key risks were identified up-front, many others were not. For the risks that were
identified, the mitigation measures introduced did not go far enough. For example, while the "innovation of
setting-up river basin authorities to integrate multi-institutional environmental efforts and responsibilities"
and "population resettlement" were identified as the main project risks, the mitigation measures proposed
were simply to have a good Project Coordination Unit and executing agencies. In reality, before river basin
authorities could be set up, new state legislation was required, and also federal legislation regulating water
use and pollution fees. Borrower and executing agency financial capacity, which was not identified as a
risk, became a major hindrance in project implementation, affecting various components, including the
resettlement component.
Counterpart fund shortage (financial risks) and Financial Sustainabilitv
*   Financial capacity of the Borrower and participating municipalities should have been assessed more
thoroughly with conservative projections and risk analysis. If deemed risky, action plans should be
developed to minimize the risk or other alternatives should be considered.
* Consider designing a smaller project or a phased project, matching the financial capacity of the
Borrower (assessed on the basis of more conservative projections).
*  Alternatively, a stronger commitment should be sought from the Borrower - which includes agreement
to create a counterpart funds escrow account.
Borrower and executing agency's financial capacity to provide sufficient counterpart funds in a timely
manner became a major problem, but was not identified as a risk up-front. Although financial projections
of the State and municipal governments as well as COPASA were prepared at appraisal, risk and
sensitivity analysis were not conducted. A "Management Improvement Plan" (Annex 1) for COPASA was
prepared, but no such plans were prepared for the Borrower or the municipalities.
Project restructuring risks
-  Risks should be identified and discussed not only at appraisal but also when the project is being
restructured. If the risks are deemed high, an alternative plan should be considered.
When the project team agreed on a financial restructuring plan at the mid-term review point, the project
team failed to make an adequate assessment of the risks involved in introducing the BOT contract. The
BOT solution, while innovative, turned out to be a highly risky strategy. Politically it was complex,
because there was strong resistance to private sector participation in the sector in general. Legally it was
complex, because COPASA's concession contract with the municipality of Belo Horizonte was due to
expire in a few years. In addition, the inexperience of the state and COPASA in structuring a BOT
contract delayed the process even further. Despite the Bank supervision team's efforts to accelerate the
process through direct technical help (IFC, PSD, and private consultants) and through political pressure
(including threats of suspension), the BOT never materialized. Although the Bank's supervision efforts in
the last two years focused heavily on getting the BOT off the ground, by 1999 - following the major
devaluation of the local currency, the loss of investor confidence in the Minas Gerais government triggered
by its announcement of a moratorium on the state's debt, and back-tracking in the privatization in other
sectors - both the authorities and the Bank had to discard the idea of the BOT for the two sewage treatment
plants. In hindsight, the Bank could have foreseen these risks, and addressed them up-front, when agreeing
to the restructuring plan.
- 14 -



Proiect Implementation
Project management
*  The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) should be an independent government agency which can
effectively coordinate multiple executing agencies at different levels of government.
*  The PCU should be small, but assisted by an independent consulting firm with a medium- to long-term
contract to ensure project continuity despite changes of government.
*  The PCU should hold periodic meetings with all executing agencies.
The project management arrangement was complex, involving five executing agencies. Although the PCU
managed the project effectively with the help of a private consulting firm, some of the executing agencies
felt under-informed and not well integrated. For example, there was a clear disconnect between FEAM and
most project components. FEAM could have played a larger role in overall project implementation,
including monitoring of environmental indicators and environmental education in project areas.
Procurement
*  A detailed procurement plan, updated periodically, should be developed and monitored.
*  The local procurement processes should be standardized and agreed upon up-front with relevant
government authorities, especially when multiple agencies are involved.
*  More proactive technical support for inexperienced executing agencies should be provided, especially
with preparation of terms of reference and bidding documents.
Many of the lessons learned stem from the fact that procurement processes often took much longer than
they should have. Many civil works contracts were awarded on the basis of very preliminary designs, a
fact that lead later to numerous amendments and legal conflicts. Some terms of reference went back and
forth between Washington and Belo Horizonte several times before they were finalized.
Environmental Education Prozram
*  The program should be designed to be implemented before and during physical interventions, so as to
ensure beneficiary communities' ownership, support and commitment. In implementing the program,
ensure that other public and private agencies, neighborhood associations, business associations, are
involved so as to guarantee the continuity of the program
The environmental education program forming part of this project, though successful to a certain degree,
was introduced at the end of the project, and so could not be used to raise community awareness before and
during construction in the resettlement areas. Managed by FEAM, the program was implemented for both
the Das Velhas basin and the Vargem das Flores reservoir, but not for the other project components, such
as the resettlement plan, which could have benefited from it.
Resettlement
*  The government's capacity and commitment to pay compensation on schedule should be verified
up-front, and actual works should start only after all arrangements for resettlement are made.
*  Promote creation of community associations to ensure community participation before, during, and
after resettlement.
*  Develop a follow-up area plan (an integrated area development plan) so as to avoid invasion of the area
- 15 -



by other low-income residents.
* Provide financial, technical, social, and legal assistance to agencies in charge of resettlement.
*   Environmental education programs should be implemented before, during, and after resettlement.
* Involve social sectors in resettlement and urbanization, so as to ensure adequate commitment to provide
services after they are implemented.
Resettlement was delayed considerably because of the government's failure to pay compensation promptly.
An ex-post survey of the resettled communities, and a beneficiary impact assessment workshop,
demonstrated the general satisfaction of the communities but also identified the problems. The problems
included limited community participation, lack of environmental education and other social, technical and
legal support before and after resettlement, and lack of integrated planning (schools, health posts, and other
social infrastructure), as discussed in more detail in Annexes 8 and 9.
Future Proiects/Actions
The environmental recovery and institutional and regulatory reform efforts initiated through the project
should be continued if the full benefits of this multifaceted operation are to materialize. On the institutional
side, the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) for water quality and pollution control, currently under
discussion with the federal government, may be an ideal project to support implementation of the river
basin management policy. On the environmental recovery side, the priority actions identified by the ICR
mission included: (i) construction of interceptors and drainage canals in the upper watersheds of the
Arrudas and Onca Rivers; (ii) construction of the primary sewage treatment plant on the Onca (perhaps
before completion of the secondary treatment plant on the Arrudas); (iii) implementation of the rest of the
industrial pollution control program; (iii) development and implementation of an industrial solid waste
management program; and (iv) design and introduction of other environmental instruments such as
pollution charges, land use zoning, and ISO 14000.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 12 and 13 for Borrower's assessment of the projet and Borrower's comments to the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
See Annex 9 for Stakeholder workshop results.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
-16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
ENFXAVDCATOCS
M SRS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
ResP                                  (B        Famines    1,622     2,090    26042                               68    1,499    2,706   2,899   2,942
tibanDnil                             LIIEP      Kzn       1652      1856    1945                                0.65     8.48     16.4   1922   19.45
Reiw.taq*n                           OOPASA    KM          71.75     114.53   130.71                             891    26.83    1042   12732   130.71
S ewC'mim Netdwk                     CXPASk    Km         208.03    21635   28247                                60.71   158.41   23537   282.47  282.47
ArmclBasin                           CJWASA    Uni        I) 96    Jm 97   Jul-99                                                                   03
Onp SewaSE                           (IWASA    Un_        D97 Jen977
hnk~~or o(cnianhiNaionaITai!law                                            %          Estimates  99,80    108     108     107      110     107      107
________f     ______ew _N   ___________        ______AS____         __________        Ad"        100    99,8     99,8    98,7     103      104
Asmm ls Revabbe                                      (PPASA               DT5s        Esfiat      30      30      30       30      30       30      15
_ountsRe~~ avab~                              (P A M .                         A d"       26      19       15      15       15      15      15
OpfaftMal*                                          (XWASk                             finae    75        73      74       76      74       74      74
.______________ .___________           A   udi     58     82       67      65       59      62
SoMWaeCo~~~~~6)nRewmxe        P1VHI~~~~~~~.~~  uss~~nwkn        Esthxde      -       -       -                33      33      39
Sord Waste Cobeion  ReNum                     F__ __            _ t U U m__   ye_Ar_a             8       7       8       33       35       40      40
MmiewTax Cda0efin                          FNMH4:AC          U$sknfiryeff   Estknwes   272    309       312      315     318      322     342
Adud      158    151       182     273      370     395     353
9ale Tax COBlXion                                     SrATE          U$simy           Es&h*s  3268   3.412   3.594    3578    3988    4225   4476
,tate Tax.Coledion  SLAlE  SAm~1kuy~r    Adi   2.520   2474   3.178    3.731    5.655   5.499
MmgE8-ARm8-ARRUDAS                                           O3PASA                mg            E        -       -       -        -     0,1-0,5    1,5
A1ual 1        1       1        1       1       1(1)
MoitgE     tarmU2-ONA                                         COPASA                m           Es        -        -       -        -     -,5-09   1,4-1,9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _     _    _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cA(1)
MgmuigEiAifio8-ARRM AS                                       COPASA                mgl                 150-190    -       -        -        -    80-lDD
(1)
Mof.Es1t            12 ON(A                                  COPASX                n9                  120-150    -       -        -       -    90-15
_ _ _ _   _      _       _     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AW(1)
S2MVewMUekBoHofBeiDE,oiveCaCgeM                              COPASA                 %          En        82      82.5     84       85      85      85
Acta1     73      73       73      74       79      85
Seelwmnut                                                     OOPASA                 %          Em         -       -       -        -       -       70
Actnl-
SoldWasteT   n(Thxta)                       %               IE                                             - | s- |       10I      109      109     100
|AMiI                                               10I
(1) lxatkio emkiaaere ptofdti *                ee itphit Telun    goatida W jeanaA                       eplrtsbcaNhMd Non    mgw.cbnmxhe
u  arid x a               v         s doft6 nvw1wh m mua
-17 -



UNIT COST BY KM OF WORKS
Canalization of 7.2 Km of the ver (appraisal 6. 
ARRUDAS BASIN            K), with mid section of 66.0m2.                   81              8.4               104
Pavement of 8,0 Km of access roads with two lanes
parallel to the basin.
Canalization of 2.5 Km of the river, with mid
ONCA BASIN      sPaetit tof 2.8 Km access roads with two lanes to  111069
the left of the canal.
Canalization of 6.1 Km of the river (appraisal 3.6
RIVERS SARANDItRESSACA   Km), with medium section of 18.0 n2.                   3.3             3.5               106
Pavement of 8.1 Km of access roads with two lane
parallel to the river.
F'ERRUGEM RIVER           Canalization of 3.2 Km of the river (appraisal 3.  5.8            3.2               55
Km), with mid section of 28 m2.
(*) Costs of land acquisition and resettlelment excluded
BENEFICIARY POPULATION
Project Components                        Estimated at Appraisal (of which number   Actual (of which number of poorfamilies)
of poor families)
Sewerage
Vargem das Flores                                      15,000 (370)                            100,000 (2,700)
Bacia do Onqa                                         60,000 (3,370)                           150,000 (9,200)
Drainage canals and Interceptors
Bacia do Arrudas                                     316,246 (7,862)                           370,000 (9,200)
Bacia do Onca                                        176,440 (9,936)                           205,000 (11,500)
Parks                                                1,300,000 (32,200)                        2,000,000 (54,300)
Water supply                                         700,000 (17,400)                           700,000 (19,000)
Resettlement                                           9,055 (1,600)                              12,770 (2,855)
-18 -



INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS OF THE PROJECT
Components                            Executing Agency                       Operation and Maintenance/
Continuity of Program
Drainage Canals, Parks, Streets       State Department of Civil Works (DEOP)   Municipalities of Belo Horizonte (PMBH)
and Contagem (PMC)
Resettlement                          Deop, Belo Horizonte Housing Agency    same
(COHAB), Municipal Development
Agency (SUDECAP)
Sewage interceptors, connections,     COPASA                                 COPASA
treatment plants
Solid Waste                           Urban Cleaning Agency (SLU), PMBH      SLU (PMBH) and PMC
Secretariat of Environment, PMC
Urbanization of Vale o Arrudas, Botanical  SUDECAP, PMBH, PMC                SUDECAP and Secretariat of Sports,
Garden, Vargem das Flores                                                    PMBH
Environmental Protection                                                     Secretariat of Enviromnent, PMC
Zoobotanica foundation
Environmental Protection of Das Velhas    FEAM, State Secretariat of Planning  State Water Resources Management
river Study and Establishment of an   (SEPLAN)                               Agency (IGAM)
Agency                                                                       Das Velhas River Basin Commission and
Agency
Industrial Pollution Control          FEAM                                   FEAM/COPASA
Institutional Strengthening of FEAM   FEAM                                   FEAM
-19 -



COPASA Management Improvement Plan
Description                  Units                     1993    1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999    Total
I. Install New Water Meters           000/Year      Esimate       84       84       84      84      84      84     84      588
Actual        36      119       70     264     182    138    143       952
2. Water Meter Repair                  000/mo       Estimate       15       30      30      30      40                      145
Actual        22       15       9       17      16     31    39        149
3. Energy Consumption                  Kwh/m3       Estimate    0.712    0.705    0.698   0.698   0.684       ..            n/a
Actual      0.743    0.772    0.788   0.760   0.748   0.756  0.774     n/a
4. Installation of Macrometers
4.1 RMBH                                 No.        Estimate.      30       30      34                                      94
Actual        10       10       10      11      10     10      5       66
4.2 Rest of State                        No.        Estimate.      25       25      25                                      75
Actual        15       50       65      15      50     230    34       459
4.3 Pitometric Stations
4.4 In RMBH                             No.         Estimate.      50       50      63                                     163
Actual        20       15       12      6       6       5      10      75
4.5 Rest                                No.         Estimate      100      100      75                                     275
Actual        23      100      120      30     50      40      20      383
5. Rehabilitation works                                                                             _
5.1 Pumping Stations                    No.         Estimate       20      20       24      26                              90
Actual        10       15       25      7       10      12     3       82
5.2 Automation of Systems               No.         Estimate.      50      50       50                                     150
Actual        15       20       25      15      15      20     5       115
5.3 Storage Tanks                       No.         Estimate       30      30       40                                     100
Actual        5        10       15      7       10      15     2       64
5.4 Water Distribution Network           Km         Estimate      69       100      100             _              _       269
Actual        20       30       50      50      50     55      55      310
5.5 Water Connections                   000         Estimate       7        7        7                                      21
Actual        5        10       15      10      8       9      9       66
5.6 Sectoriaztion in District           No.         Estimate       8        8        9                                      25
Actual        8        10       15      30     100    100    30        293
6. SIGMA Project Implementation     No. of Districts   Estimate    7        7        8                                      22
Actual        0        10       14      2       1       2      2       31
7. Cadastre Expansion            000 Connections    Estimate      100      200      300    200      100                    900
Actual        80       84       84     124    124    129    151        776
8. Collection Period                    Days        Estimate       42      40       38      36      32                      n/a
Actual                          30      30      30      30     30      n/a
9. Marginal Cost Studies            No of Systems    Estimate      20       40           _                                  60
Actual                       ___
10. Tariff Restructuring                            Estimate              June                                             n/a
_  Actual             Jun/Sept  June    Feb.                    Nov.    n/a
I .Unaccoonted-for-water               Percent      Estimate      36       34       32      31      30                     n/a
Actual        36       34       33      34      33      33     33      nia
12. Invoiced Water                     M/m3         Estimate      680      722      767    815    865                      n/a
Actual %      30       28       27      28      25      25     25      n/a
13. Tariff Value for Water &          USS/m3        Estimate     0.50      0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50                    n/a
Sewerage by Year-end
._____________________  __Actual  0.383    0.433   0.527   0.617   0.641  0.622  0.465     n/a
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Corponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActualJLatest   Percentage of
EStimate l   Estimate         Apraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$million      U$ million
Flood control and urban drainage                     117.80           129.90           110
Municipal and industrial sewage collection            80.40           59.10             73
Municipal and industrial sewage treatment             76.90           77.50            100
Municipal and industrial solid waste collection and disposal  5.50     4.10             74
Environment Protection                                 9.10            6.80             75
Environmental management                               9.90            12.20           123
Project Management                                     8.10            9.60            118
Total Baseline Cost                                  307.70          299.20
Total Project Costs              307.70          299.20
Total Financing Required              307.70          299.20
I/Including the Sewage Treatment Plants
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
ExpenditureCategory      ICeCT Ott;                             t  EL.      Total Cost
1. Works                    235.60    1   29.90        0.00         0.00        265.50
(98.90)      (12.60)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (111.50)
2. Goods                    15.60         8.00         0.00         0.00         23.60
_______________________    (12.90)       (3.40)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (16.30)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         18.50        0.00         18.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (17.20)      (0.00)       (17.20)
Total                    251.20        37.90        18.50         0.00        307.60
(111.80)     (16.00)      (17.20)       (0.00)      (145.00)
l/Not including the Sewage Treatment Plant
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                       119.30          66.70          2.80           0.00          188.80
(64.00)        (41.40)        (1.80)        (0.00)        (107.20)
2. Goods                         1.70          0.70           0.30           0.00           2.70
(1.40)         (0.60)        (0.10)         (0.00)         (2.10)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00           30.80          0.00          30.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (26.60)        (0.00)         (26.60)
Total                        121.00         67.40          33.90          0.00          222.30
(65.40)        (42.00)       (28.50)         (0.00)       (135.90)
1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Not including the sewage treatment plants
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank  Govt.  CoF.
Drainage                 53.30     64.40                70.10     59.80              131.5  92.9   0.0
Sewage                   78.40     78.90                39.70     96.90              50.6  122.8   0.0
Solid Waste              1.80       3.60                3.20       1.00              177.8  27.8   0.0
Urbanization             4.00       5.10                4.10       2.70              102.5  52.9   0.0
Environment Management    5o00     4.80                 10.60      1.60              212.0  33.3   0.0
Management               2.50       5.80                8.30       1.30              332.0  22.4   0.0
PROJECT TOTAL           145.00    162.60               135.90     163.20             93.7  100.4   0.0
Financing:
Planned    %    Actual /1    %    Actual /2   %
Bank                              145    47%    135.9    61%        135.9   45%
State Government                  53     17%    64.4 /3    29%     64.4 /1   22%
COPASA                           78.9    26%      19.7     9%       96.6    32%
Municipality of Belo Horizonte   22.6    7%       2.1      1%       2.1      1%
Municipality of Contagem          8.1     3%      0.2      0%        0.2     0%
307.6   100%    222.3    100%     299.2   100%
1/ Not including the sewage treatment plants under construction
2/ Including the sewage treatment plants to be completed
3/ US$58.5 million of the State Government Contribution was financed by COPASA (COPASA loan to
the Government).
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rates of Return - Costs and Benefits
The economic rate of return estimated at appraisal was 30% (with a B/C ratio of 1.3) under a conservative
scenario A, and 45% (with a B/C ratio of 1.7) under a more realistic scenario B. On completion of the
project, the ERR was re-estimated at 14% (with a B/C ratio of 1.1) under scenario A and 27% (with a B/C
ratio of 1.3) under scenario B, on the basis of the latest actual cost figures and updated benefit projections.
Methodology and Assumptions
The rates were re-estimated using generally the same methodology as at appraisal, with some adjustments.
For the drainage, sewerage, and solid waste components, the rates were calculated on the basis of
appreciation in land values in the project area (Arrudas and Onca basins), which was used as a proxy for
the communities' willingness to pay for improved services in the area of intervention. The benefits captured
in appreciation in land values include: (i) fewer incidents of flood damage; (ii) better access to the area; (iii)
a better land-use (zoning) system; and (iv) improved environmental conditions thanks to sewage and solid
waste collection. Appreciation in land values was estimated using two assumptions: (i) accepting the legal
valuation (tax base) of property as market value (Assumption A); and (ii) assuming that legal valuation is
60% of the market value (Assumption B). The figures were then adjusted for the general rise in land
values in the city to eliminate non-project factors possibly affecting appreciation.
Benefits attributable to the sewage treatment plants, which mainly affect the downstream reaches of the
Arrudas, Onca, and das Velhas Rivers, were not estimated at appraisal. Upon completion of the project, the
rates were re-estimated using the results of a willingness-to-pay survey (financed by the project) conducted
in the affected area.  The rates for the Vargem das Flores reservoir were calculated separately by
quantifying the cost savings from not needing an additional water treatment facility and therefore reduced
O&M costs. The rates for the environmental protection component were calculated on park entrance fees
and recreational area rental fees. Benefits from the other project components were not quantified; they are
more institutional in nature.
Resul
Ijvoohesis A
Components                            jAppraisal Estimates   Revised Estimates
B/C      IRR         B/C       IRR
Drainage, Sewerage and Solid Waste     2.83      85.9%       1.10      17%
Of which Vargem das Flores             2.90      36.7%       4.0       67.0%
Environmental Protection               0.56      2.7%        1.0       14%
Total                                  1.34      29.8%       1.1       14%
Hypothesis B
Components                             Appraisal Estimates   Revised Estimates
B/C      IRR         B/C       IRR
Drainage, Sewerage and Solid Waste     3.54      110.1%      1.4       31%
Of which Vargem das Flores             3.90      44.3%       5.1       80%
1 Environmental Protection              0.56      2.7%        1.0       12%
Total                                  1.68      45.2%       1.3       27%
The re-estimated ERR and B/C, especially under the more realistic scenario B, are robust, and reflect the
project's positive impact. The re-estimated ERR and B/C ratios are lower than those estimated at appraisal
- 23 -



mainly because: (i) the area of impact was over-estimated at appraisal; and (ii) appreciation in land values
was not as high and did not occur as soon as had been projected at appraisal. There may be higher
project-related appreciation in land values in the future, but the currently available data have been used in
the interests of a conservative approach.
Financial Rates of Return - Costs and Benefits
The financial rate of return estimated at appraisal was 6% (with B/C ratio of 0.6) under a conservative
scenario A, in which sewage volume was estimated to remain constant at the year 2000 level, and 8% (with
B/C ratio of 0.7) under a more realistic scenario B, in which sewage volume was estimated to increase
gradually to maximum capacity of the infrastructure.  Upon completion of the project, the FRR was
re-estimated at -0.7% (with B/C ratio of 0.3) under scenario A and 1.2% (with B/C ratio of 0.4) under
scenario B, on the basis of the latest actual cost figures and updated benefit projections.
Methodology and Assumptions
The rates were re-estimated using the same methodology as at appraisal. The main benefits attributable to
each component are summarized in the table below. For the most part, cost reduction figures include
investment and incremental O&M costs.
Component                Benefits
Drainage                 Incremental property tax (IPTU) and property transfer tax (ITBI) revenues;
flood control costs saved (R$65,000/year); flood damage recovery costs
saved (R$304,000/year); road maintenance costs saved (R$473,000/year).
Sewerage                 Incremental sewage collection and treatment tariff revenue; pollution fees;
water treatment costs saved (Vargem das Flores reservoir component);
health care costs saved (R$82,400/year); maintenance costs saved
(Pampulha reservoir).
Solid Waste Disposal     Reduction in O&M costs. Increase in volume of solid waste collection is
captured in increased IPTU/ITBI revenues.
Environmental Protection    Park entrance fees (R$220,000-R$440,000/year). Sale of cultivated plants.
Environmental            Additional licensing fees
Management
Results
It was already clear at the appraisal stage that this project was not financially viable. None of the
components was expected to achieve full cost recovery. Re-estimation of the rates also confirmed the
difficulties in achieving full cost recovery with an environmental project of this nature.
The low rates reflect the fact that full recovery of the cost of drainage canals, roads, parks, and solid waste
investments is difficult to achieve on the basis of incremental tax revenue alone. Incremental revenue is
sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs, but not investment costs. The rates for the sewerage
component are also low, because no increase in tariffs is foreseen to recover the investment costs of the
sewage treatment plants. Without the treatment plants, the sewerage component has an acceptable rate of
16% (B/C ratio of 1.35) under scenario A and 17% (B/C ratio of 1.58) under scenario B.
The re-estimated financial rates of return and B/C ratios for the drainage component are lower than the
appraisal estimates for the same reasons that apply in the case of the economic rates of returns; the
- 24 -



reduction in property tax rates was another contributing factor. The re-estimated rates for the sewerage
component are also lower, mainly because the incremental volume of sewage, especially industrial sewage,
was much lower than estimated at appraisal. At appraisal, it was projected that industrial sewage would
account for 80% of total incremental sewage (estimated at 25.8 million m3 per year), while the current
estimate is 28% of total incremental sewage (now estimated at 12.5 million m3 per year). Domestic
sewage volume is also estimated to be much lower than projected at appraisal, a result of reduced water
consumption owing to increased metering. The rates for the solid waste component, while re-estimated at
somewhat higher levels than those projected at appraisal, are still very low, reflecting the fact that most
investment here went into rehabilitation and upgrading of existing infrastructure, so that the increase in
collection volume was limited. The rates for the environmental management component reflect additional
revenue from pollution control licensing fees.
Hypothesis A
Component                   Appraisal Estimates    Revised Estimates
B/C        IRR         B/C       IRR
Drainage                    0.61        6.95%      0.2       -2.2%
Sewerage                    0.62        6.48%      0.5       1.9%
Solid Waste Disposal        0.29        1.37%      0.3       2.4%
Environmental Protection    0.86        9.29%      1.0       11.6%
Environmental Management    0.29        1.97%      0.6       7.0%
Total                       0.57        5.97%      0.3       0.7%
_Hypothesis B
Components                  Appraisal Estimates    Revised Estimates
B/C        IRR         B/C       IRR
Drainage                    0.61        6.95%      0.2       -2.2%
Sewerage                    0.93        11.17%     0.6       3.4%
Solid Waste Disposal        0.29        1.37%      0.3       2.4%
Environmental Protection    0.86        9.29%      1.0       11.6%
Environmental Management    0.29        1.97%      0.6       7.0%
Total                       0.71        8.23%      0.4       1.2%
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) M issions:__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                      _ _ _ _ _ _
*4                             >. le  of Penops ma  Specialty               fr       Rating
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   S pecip eci_ _ _ _ _ _ __er_ _b
Identification/Preparation       3   1 EN, IC, lENV
03/29/91
09/04/91                    l   1E
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/14/91                    7   1 E, ILS, 1ES, 4C
03/25/92                    2   ILS, IC
05/13/92                    3   1E, 2C
Supervision
03/03/93                     1  IEN, IC                             S                U
12/14/93                     1  1 EN                                S                U
12/03/93                     1  lEN
12/14/93                     1  IEN
02/02/94                     2  lEN, 1SL
02/17/94                     2  1EN, 1E                             S                S
03/14/94                     1  1E
03/19/94                     2  IENV, 1C
05/05/94                     2  lEN, 1C
08/22/94                     2  1EN, IWSS
10/18/94                     1  lENV
01/24/95                     1  IEN                                 S                S
06/29/95                     2  IE, 1EN                             S                U
10/04/95                     3  IE, 1FA, IEN                        S                U
06/26/96                     2  2E                                  S                S
09/30/96                     3  2E IE                               S                S
06/18/97                     1  1C                                  S                S
09/26/97                     3  lEN, IFA, 1C                        S                S
06/16/98                     2  lEN, lPSD                           S                S
01/22/99                     1  1FA                                 S                U
06/25/99                     2  1FA, IE                             S                S
ICR
11/22/99                    2   lFA, lEN                            S                S
12/16/99                    1   IFA
03/20/2000                  S   IFA, 2C, lENV, lWSS
C - Consultant, EN - Engineer, E - Economist, ENV - Environment Specialist, FA - Financial Analyst, LS - Lead
Specialist, SL - Sector Leader, PSD - Private Sector Development Specialist, WSS - Water and Sanitation Specilist
- 26 -



(b) Staff
Stag of Project Cyle.                     Actual/Latest Estimate:
No. Staff weeks      :          USS (,AO)_
Identification/Preparation                12.9                        22.0
AppraisalNegotiation                      21.2                        52.4
Supervision                              136.4                       221.9
ICR                                       11.3                        56.3
Total                                    181.8                       352.6
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development               O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                            O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
O Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
E Other (Please specify)
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
G Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
62 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS OS   OU  OHU
E Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*     Relatorio Final do Gerenciamento PROSAM (Borrower's final report), LEME/DHV - UGP, June
1999
*     Relatorio de Avaliacao do PROSAM (Borrower's final evaluation report, compiling executing
agencies' contribution), April 2000
*     Avalia,cdo Econ6mico-Financeira "Ex-Post" do Program de Saneamento Ambiental nas Bacias
do Arrudas e On,a na Regido Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte (Ex-Post Economic and Financial
Assessment), Eduardo Linke, January 2000
*     Primeiro Encontro Participativo das Comunidades Envolvidas (Beneficiary Impact Assessment
Workshop Proceedings), Belo Horizonte, March 22, 2000
*     Semindrio de Encerramento do PROSAM (Project Closing Workshop - Presentations made by the
executing agencies), December 16, 1999
*     Lei 13.194 -  Fundo de Recuperacao Protecao e Desenvolvimento Sustentavel das Bacias
Hidrograficas do Estado de Minas Gerais (Law 13194, Fund for Recovery and Protection, and
Sustainable Development of Water Basins in the State of Minas Gerais), January 29, 1999
*     Lei 13.199 - Dispoe sobre a Politica Estadual de Recursos Hidricos e da outras providencias
(Law 13199, State Policy of Water Resources Management), Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e
Coordenacao Geral, January 29, 1999
*     Relat6rio Gerencial  (Borrower's final project progress report), Secretaria do Estado do
Planejamento e Coordenacao de Minas Gerais, UGP Cons6rcio LEME/DHV, June 1999
*     Plano de A,cdo Immediata - PAI, Conclusoes Relevantes (Industrial Pollution Control Immediate
Action Plan), ESSE Consultants, October 13, 1999
*      ,SWater Resources Management - World Bank Policy Paper, The World Bank, 1993
*      sEstudo de Viabilidade das Esta,ces de Tratamento de Esgotos do Arrudas e On,a, Modelagem
Rio das Velhas, Relat6rio Final, Volume 1 (Technical Viability study for the Arrudas and Onca sewerage
treatmnent plants, Das Velhas River Model), FENDEP-YKS-PRIME, January 1997
*     Relat6rios de Desapropriagdo e Reassentamento de Familias 1-4 (Report including beneficiary
survey of the resettlement component), UGP-LEME/DHV, Secretaria d Estado do Planejamento e
Coodenacao Geral, May 96, Oct 96, April 97, Oct 97.
- 30-



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Ex-post Assessment of Resettlement Component and Beneficiary Survey Results
Component Design and Major Chanzes during Implementation
The execution of drainage works included in the project required the use of areas in the city occupied by
unplanned settlements located in risk-prone areas and not served by basic infrastructure. Resettlement
resulted from the canalization of the Arrudas and Onca Rivers in the municipality of Belo Horizonte and of
the Ferrugem River in the municipality of Contagem. The size of the resettlement component was much
larger than expected, owing to changes in the engineering design of the civil macro-drainage works. The
total of families to be displaced estimated at the project preparation phase (1,666) almost doubled during
project implementation (2,855). Nevertheless, the Borrower's resettlement compensation policy, approved
by the Bank as a condition of the loan, was executed without major changes that could have affected its
objectives.
The main changes in resettlement component design were:
Institutional arrangements:  In the municipality of Belo Horizonte, resettlement activities were the
responsibility of Companhia Urbanizadora de Belo Horizonte (URBEL), assisted by Superintendencia da
Capital (SUDECAP). These institutions were replaced by the State Housing Company (COHAB). In the
municipality of Contagem, the institutions were: Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento da Capital
(SUlDECAP), assisted by the municipal housing company (CONTERRA).  In this municipality
CONTERRA implemented the least part of the resettlement activities, while COHAB covered the larger
part of these activities.
Compensation package:  An initial survey indicated that about two-thirds of families affected by
displacement would prefer to be resettled in new housing, while the remaining third would prefer cash
compensation. In the course of the resettlement implementation process, this proportion changed
substantially: only 37% of families chose the resettlement alternative, while 63% opted for the cash
compensation option.
Cost and implementation schedule: The total projected resettlement budget increased by more than 100%
(from US$1lmillion to US$23 million), reflecting the increase in the total population affected. The
implementation schedule was adjusted several times because of the shortage of government funds to pay
compensation on schedule, despite the Bank's fnancing of the resettlement housing units.
Beneficiary Survey Results
During the process of resettling the population affected by project infrastructure works, four evaluations
were carried out, in the form of surveys and interviews with resettlement leaders and members of resettled
families. The main objectives of these evaluations were to: (i) ascertain whether the resettlement strategy
needed to be reformulated; (ii) identify any emergency measures needed to assist recently resettled families
(iii) assess the impact of cash compensation on re-establishment of living conditions; and (iv) assess the
impact of resettlement. The main findings, conclusions and lessons learned addressed by these evaluation
reports are presented below.
Ouality of resettlement housing
Close to 70% of the resettled population interviewed indicated that the quality of resettlement housing units
was superior to their original housing. Roughly 16% classified them as inferior. The remaining group
- 31 -



declared themselves only partially satisfied. The satisfaction percentage differed according to the
resettlement housing complex the family moved into. The highest satisfaction rate was 85%, the lowest
76%. The causes of satisfaction were associated with quality of housing construction, size of dwelling, lot
size, location, and environmental conditions (i.e., access to basic infrastructure and benefits of urban
planning).
Cash compensation
The assessment of the group that received cash compensation also demonstrated a high percentage of
satisfaction with the new living conditions. The results related to plot area and type of use indicate a
substantial improvement. Cash compensation enabled a family to select a bigger plot (180-230m2) situated
in a planned urban area served by basic infrastructure. The assessment also indicated that a significant
group moved to more distant neighborhoods.
Main causes of dissatisfaction
The two main causes of dissatisfaction were: lack of a police presence, and lack of areas for sport and
leisure. Other causes were: schools further away and fewer vacancies in them; health units further away
and fewer suitable appointment times. The causes of dissatisfaction identified through the surveys were in
general those commonly mentioned by residents of low-income neighborhoods. In this case it is not clear in
all cases that they were they were the results of the resettlement. Mitigating problems of this kind
invariably presents a challenge in resettlement operations.
Key Resettlement Information - Table 1
1. Staff App raisal Report (1993)                         Implemented 1994 - 1999)
Municipality   Cause of   Dwellings   Popu-  Implementation   Cause of  Dwellings  Popu-  Implementation
Resettlement affected (1)  lation  Agency     Resettlement affected  lation     Agency
Belo        Arrudas         747      4,183  Companhia    Arrudas         1,548    6,900  COHAB - MG
Horizonte    River channel                  Urbanizadora  River channel
and main                        de Belo       and main
sanitary                        Horizonte     sanitary
infrastructure                 (URBEL)        infrastructure
Onca River     505       2,828                Onca River    1,023    4,600
channel                                       channel
Sub-total      1,252     7,011                Sub-total      2,571    11,500
Contagem    Arrudas         174       946   Superintendenci Arrudas       284      1270  CONTERRA]
River channel                   a de          River channel                  COHAB
Desenvolviment
o Comunitario
(SUDECOM)
Sarandi River    196     1,098                Sarandi River                  COHAB
channel                                       channel
Sub-total      370       2,044                               284      1,270
Total       1,622       9,055                              2,855     12,770
- 32 -



Key Resettlement Information - Table 2
Total Families                       Total Resettlement Cost
Municipality                                                                   (US$M  (I)
Affected      Resettled    Cash compensation   Estimated (SAR)    Implemented
Belo Horizonte         2,647           950              1,697                               22.0
Contagem                284             91               193                                 1.3
Total                  2,855           1,041            1,819               11         |    23.3
(1) includes land acquisition, housing and cash compensation
- 33 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
During ICR preparation, two stakeholder workshops were held to discuss the results of the project and the
lessons learned from it. The first was with the Borrower and the executing agencies, and the second with
the final beneficiaries, represented by their community leaders. The results of the first workshop are
incorporated throughout the text of the ICR.
This Annex summarizes the main results of the final beneficiary impact assessment workshop.
Objective: The objective of the workshop was to conduct a beneficiary impact assessment in a
participatory manner.
Methodology: Final beneficiaries represented by 34 community leaders living in the project area were
invited to the workshop to share their experiences. To encourage free discussion, executing agency and
Bank staff participated only as observers. After a brief introduction, in which participants expressed their
expectations individually, they were divided into three discussion groups.  The groups were asked to
answer two questions: (i) How did the project affect your life?; and (ii) How do you think the project can be
improved? Participants were asked to answer these questions by writing their ideas on small sheets of
paper, a method used so as to encourage everyone to express his/her opinion, and to prevent the discussions
being dominated by one or two more outspoken individuals. Once answers were collected, the participants
grouped their answers into categories with the help of a facilitator. They were next given the opportunity to
talk among themselves, and then to present their answers to other groups in a plenary. The results of the
workshop were summarized into a report (available in the project files) to be distributed later to the
participants.
Results: Although initially chaotic, owing mainly to the lack of experience of both the facilitators and the
participants, the workshop concluded successfully with many interesting and useful observations. Most of
the 34 participants stayed until the very end, and even proposed to form a commission to continue this kind
of exchange. Many expressed the view that this kind of workshop should have been organized before,
during project implementation.
The main impacts of the project perceived by the communities were:
-   Improvements in sewerage services, solid waste collection, and cleanliness of the canals
*  Improvements in quality of life in general
*  Improvements in health
*   Safer living conditions
*  Better housing
*   Greater community awareness of the need to protect the Pampulha basin and the canals
*   Increase in recreational facilities
*  Better access and transport system along the Arrudas
*  Elimination of flooding and unsanitary conditions
*  Appreciation of real estate values
*  Promotion of community participation
The main points on what could have been better (lessons) and what should be done in the future
(recommendations) included:
* Community participation was not sufficient. Communities were under informed. Communities should
be involved in all phases of the project. A permanent committee with community representatives
- 34-



should be created up-front to participate in each phase of the project.
*   Integrated planning needed, which should have covered "social facilities" such as schools, health posts,
daycare centers, transportation services, income generation, and police stations.
*   Lack of environmental education leads to accumulation of solid wastes. Environmental education
should have involved the schools.
*   Resettlement caused stress in the family. Families were isolated or separated. Lack of technical and
legal support to the resettled families.
*   Flood damage still continues. Bad quality of works. (Comments by residents affected by the recent
flood damage under investigation).
*   Works were paralyzed and caused problems.
*   Continuity and expansion of environmental education with participation of schools is important.
*   Continuity of works needed where pollution still remains.
*   More traffic lights needed along the streets constructed as part of the project.
*   Contracting and supervision of contractors need to be improved.
The full report of the beneficiary workshop is available in the project files.
- 35 -



Annex 10. Industrial Pollution Control Program
A detailed analysis of industrial pollution was conducted as part of the industrial pollution control
subcomponent, and a short-term action plan focusing on the largest polluters was implemented. The
analysis found that industrial pollution was responsible for only 8% of total organic pollution load, a much
lower figure than assumed at appraisal. Industries alone are 100% responsible for this toxic load, but the
volume involved is only about 80 kg/day, small enough to be diluted in the sewerage network without
causing toxic shock.
Under the industrial pollution control action plan financed through the project, 29 industrial companies
were found to be responsible for 80% of the total industrial pollution load. About 75% of this volume
(60% of total load) was found to be produced by two large mining companies. One of these two
constructed its own treatment plant last year.  The other has a treatment plant of their own but of
insufficient capacity, and will have to either expand this existing facility or add a pre-treatment facility and
use a COPASA sewage collector as its disposal point. It was determined that the other 27 companies do
not need pre-treatment. Each of the 29 companies has signed an agreement with FEAM based on its own
specific plans, which include: projects to reduce effluents through optimization of industrial processes; in
the case of the two main polluters mentioned above, construction of on-site treatment/pretreatment
facilities; and, in the case of the other 27 companies, connection to the COPASA sewerage network. Of the
29, 24 already hold operating licenses, and 18 are already connected to the COPASA network.
The pollution action plan is now being expanded to the remaining group of companies. COPASA has
prepared a comprehensive industrial pollution control program based on an Industrial Connection Code
approved by FEAM. This proposed program has identified and prioritized the remaining 1544 industries.
The Industrial Connection Code sets the standards to be met by any industry in the future if it is to comply
with COPASA/FEAM requirements. This will ensure that the biological treatment plants being constructed
will not be subject to operational problems from toxic shocks from industrial wastewater in the network.
In addition, in keeping with the recommendations of the industrial pollution study, penalty charges have
been increased to provide additional incentives for manufacturing companies to monitor their industrial
discharges more carefully. The previous maximum of US$1,500 has been raised to US$35,000, with
actual fines to be based on BOD levels.
- 36 -



Annex 11. Ex-post Assessment of the Comprehensive River Basin Management Approach
The project fully achieved its objective of initiating a "comprehensive river basin management approach" to
management of the water resources in the Das Velhas River. It also achieved a substantial institutional
impact in terms of the regulatory and institutional reform required to allow this type of approach to river
basin management. However, project achievements were more modest on the implementation side than had
been projected at appraisal, since the proposed river basin management agency has not yet been
established.
One of the major achievements of the project was the drafting of the revised state Water Resources
Management Law (Law 13,199/99). In effect since January 1999, this legislation, which replaces Law
11,504/94, is the instrument governing the state's water resources management system. The principles it
lays down, which are consistent with the World Bank's Water Resources Management Policy, are: (i)
water resources as environmental, social, and economic goods; (ii) water basins as the basic unit for water
resources management and planning; (iii) water fees based on availability and quality of water; (iv)
decentralization of water resources management; and (v) participation of public sector, users, and
communities.
The instruments to which this Law would be implemented are the state's: (i) Water Resources Plan; (ii)
River Basin Water Resources Master Plan; (iii) water resources information system; (iv) classification of
bodies of water; (v) allocation of water use rights; (vi) water use fees; (vii) mechanism for compensating
municipalities which suffer flooding associated with construction of reservoirs, etc.; (viii) arrangements for
sharing the cost of multiple-use public works; (ix) penalties. The Law also defines the responsibilities and
functions of the various agencies comprising the state Water Resources Management System: State
Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (SEMAD), State Water Resources Management
Council (CERH-MG), river basin committees, and river basin agencies. In addition, it delineates the
functions of FEAM (the state environmental agency), IGAM (the state water resources agency), and IFE
(the state forestry agency) in connection with their responsibilities for the brown, blue, and green
environmental agendas, respectively.
Implementation, however, was much slower than expected at appraisal. As a benchmark, the original legal
covenants called for the establishment of an independent and financially self-sufficient pilot river basin
agency for the Das Velhas River within two years of signature of the Loan Agreement. In fact, it took five
years to enact the necessary regulatory framework, and the agency has not been established. What was
established, however, was the first river basin management committee in the state, with responsibility for
the basin of the Das Velhas. This is more important policy-setting body, made up of representatives of the
state government, municipal governments, users, and civil society. The river basin agency would be the
executive ann of the committee. Legally, the committee can request the establishment of an agency, subject
to the approval of the State Water Resources Management Council (CERH-MG). However, many
obstacles stand in the way of establishment of the agency, the main one being lack of the financial
resources that would be needed to get it quickly to the operational stage. The agency was to achieve full
financial self-sufficiency by collecting water use and pollution fees. Although a detailed study financed
under the project made recommendations regarding collection of these fees by the river basin agency, and
the state Law allows charges of this type, no fees are yet in effect. Nothing further can be done at this
point until the federal Water Regulatory Agency (ANA) issues the specific rules that are to govern such
fees. Since the water basin agency, even if created now, could still not collect fees from users and
polluters, the concept of the agency as "self-financing" remains meaningless. The project should have
foreseen this situation and made funding or funding mechanisms available for this transition period, until
the agency could prove that it added value, and thus justify the collection of the fees it needs to operate.
- 37 -



This could have served as the "creation cell" for the agency, avoiding the vacuum that resulted when the
consultants working on its design completed their commission.
In hindsight, considering the fact that water resources management reform in other countries which have
gone through this process (i.e. France and Spain) has taken several decades to get through the
implementation process, the project was ambitious in terms of the speed at which the key institutional and
regulatory reform needed to be carried out. Reform of this type requires major consensus building efforts
and change in culture at all levels of government, and should be dealt with in the context of a longer-term
program with realistic benchmarks. Therefore, it can be concluded that the model proposed was fully valid
and the project was decisive in setting into motion the process to achieve it. That this rather unrealistic
benchmark of creating river basin agency in two years has not been achieved should not be interpreted as
an indication of failure. The existence of this benchmark and covenant was considered negative in that it
forced some decisions, particularly in the creation of the river basin committee, without adequate consensus
among the main stakeholders. This led to major problems that are only now being solved. Other river
basins in the state, which have created their committees following the Das Velhas model but have not been
under the same time pressure, have been much more successful.
An additional factor to consider is that important steps in the reform depended on actions and changes that
were outside the scope of the project or even beyond the power of the state, and on integration with reforms
in other areas (such as institutional development in some of the state agencies with water resources
management responsibilities, or issue of implementing regulations pursuant to the federal Law). Borrower
authorities pointed to this factor as one of the main impediments to achievement of the ambitious targets set
at project outset. While this is something that cannot be completely managed, the experience demonstrates
the importance of foreseeing the need to take action in areas outside the strict scope of the project and
allocate funds for such activities.
- 38 -



Annex 12. Borrower's Final Evaluation Report Summary
INTRODUCTION
The rapid growth of the metropolitan areas of Brazil's major cities' between 1940 and 1985 led to
extensive degradation of natural resources, with water resources near major urban areas being particularly
affected. This growth was not accompanied by appropriate investment in environmental infrastructure and
sanitation services. As a result of this situation, the environment and the quality of life in the metropolitan
areas of the state capitals deteriorated significantly, a situation that had direct impacts on the low-income
population.
In Belo Horizonte, the capital of the state of Minas Gerais, the traditional mining activities in the
metropolitan area, coupled with the explosive urban growth and industrialization that took place over
several decades, caused increasing environmental degradation, which affected the rivers and reservoirs near
the growing city to a particular degree.
This water pollution was attributable to two basic, interconnected causes: (i) industrialization
implemented without concem for the environment; and (ii) the inability to create an appropriate urban and
,sanitary infrastructure for the low-income population and particularly those living in the favelas that
sprang up on the unoccupied land near the rivers.
Typically, the process started with industries discharging untreated wastes into the natural drainage
system and with the favelas spreading into risk-prone areas, located for the most part along river banks and
on steep slopes where it was generally impossible to put in basic infrastructure services. In addition,
inadequate investments in the sector, in combination with unrealistic zoning practices, resulted in a demand
for environmental infrastructure that could not be met, especially as regards flood control and collection
and treatment of liquid and solid wastes. The chief sources of water pollution were: industrial and mining
wastes, domestic sewage, rainwater runoff, uncontrolled discarding of solid waste, erosion and landslides.
Another major concern was the flooding of densely populated urban areas.
The decentralization of responsibility for infrastructure services decreed by Brazil's 1988
Constitution generated innovative local initiatives for the provision of water and sanitation services.
In 1990, some state governments and the Sanitation Secretariat of the Ministry of Social Action
(MAS) began to discuss with the Bank the possibilities of financing for certain regional initiatives
connected with flood control and water pollution in the different metropolitan areas. This analysis was
extended to the Arrudas and On,a Rivers, tributaries of the Das Velhas River, which are located in the
Belo Horizonte metropolitan area; the result was Loan 3554-BR.
1.    IDENTIFICATIONAND APPROVAL, INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL STRUCTURE. AND
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROGRAM
The program was identified in February 1991 and during that year three Bank missions assisted
MAS and the state agencies involved in its preparation. On April 29, 1992, the government of the state of
Minas Gerais (GMG) created the Environmental Sanitation Program for the Arrudas and Onca Basins
(PROSAM-MG) by means of Decree No. 33,537. On April 30, 1992, the State Environmental Policy
Council (COPAM) approved the Environmental Impact Assessment - Environmental Impact Report on the
project, which was appraised in July 1992. The loan negotiations were held in November 1992 and the
contract was signed by the state government and the Bank on February 1, 1993.
- 39-



The total cost of the program was estimated at US$307.6 million, of which US$145.0 million was
to be financed by the Bank and US$162.6 million by counterpart funds to be made available by the state
government and the program implementing agencies. In September 1997, the amount of the loan was
reduced to US$140.0 million' and in September 1999 the program was closed with loan disbursement
standing at US$135.9 million. Of the amount remaining, US$1.8 million will be left unused in the special
account and US$2.3 million was blocked.
As agreed with the Bank, the Borrower established a Project Management Unit (PMU) which was
set up within the Minas Gerais Development Bank. The prograrn had five implementing agencies, viz.:
(i) Department of Public Works (DEOP); (ii) Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (COPASA -
the state water utility); (iii) Fundafao Estadual do Meio Ambiente (FEAM - the state environmental
agency); (iv) the Belo Horizonte Municipal Prefecture (PMBH); and (v) the Contagem Municipal
Prefecture (PMC), each of which had a representative on the PMU. In August 1994, 21 months after
signature of the contract, the program PMU was transferred to the Minas Gerais Special State Secretariat
for International Affairs.
On January 1, 1995, the government elected in October 1994 took office and the PMU was
transferred to the State Secretariat for Planning and General Coordination (SEPLAN-MG), while
maintaining the same structure as before.
The main objective of the program was restoration of the environmentally degraded urban basins of
the Arrudas and On9a Rivers in the municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem, and also to start the
process of improving the quality of the waters of the Das Velhas River. The specific objectives were: (i) to
develop institutional capabilities for environmentally sustainable river basin management, through the
introduction of modem land use incentives, cost recovery mechanisms, and an efficient legal and regulatory
framework; and (ii) to improve the quality of life of approximately 2.7 million inhabitants of these two
urban river basins.
The program, to be implemented in five years, comprised five main components: (i) flood control
and urban drainage; (ii) collection and treatment of domestic and industrial sewage; (iii) collection and
disposal of domestic and industrial solid waste; (iv) environmental protection and urban amenities; and (v)
river basin management.
In addition to the above main components, the program was to resettle and/or compensate 9,055
persons living in 1,622 dwellings in the municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem.
2.    PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation of the program can be approached by considering the following topics:
Drainage canals and paved roads
The drainage canals and paved roads produced tangible benefits for the residents of the adjoining
neighborhoods and mainly for the people resettled in housing complexes along the roads.
A large number of benefits can be mentioned, including in particular: (i) control of the constant
floods; (ii) waste removal (10,000 tons/year); (iii) strengthening of river banks, thereby preventing erosion;
- 40 -



(iv) marked improvement in traffic conditions in the neighborhoods directly connected to the program area,
with resultant greater safety and shorter travel times. These benefits have had a positive impact on the
quality of life not only for the resettled population but also on a smaller scale for the entire population
living in the Arrudas and Onca basins.
Sewer systems, intercepting sewers
The laying of approximately 282 km of sewer networks in low-income areas plus 118 km of
interceptor mains and provision of 21,000 new sewer connections brought a great improvement in the
quality of life of the resettled population and also of the neighborhoods in the program's sphere of
influence. In justification of this assertion, we note the following benefits: (i) prevention of transmission of
waterbome disease - as a result of sewage collection; (ii) improved hygiene conditions; (iii) improved
safety in the streets; and (iv) reduction in the level of ground pollution by elimination of open sewers.
Provision of urban amenities in the remaining areas - open areas and parks
The parks and gardens laid out in the Arrudas and Onca river basins are providing free and
low-cost recreation areas for the low-income population. In order to ensure the upkeep and preservation of
these areas, PMBH and PMC are concluding agreements with local businesses and amateur soccer
associations. Some agreements have already been signed and the sustainability of this subcomponent will
be assured by these means.
Solid waste
Solid waste collection in the municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem has benefited from
route optimization studies, computerization of the administrative units responsible, and more pickups of
household and hospital waste as a direct consequence of the expansion of the fleet. The Perobas sanitary
landfill in the municipality of Contagem is a great benefit to the local population, since it madke possible
the closing of the old open dump (Lixao do CINCO), a source of pollution and disease. Beside these
tangible benefits, the population has also been made aware of the importance of collection and disposal of
domestic, medical/hospital, and industrial solid wastes.
Institutional strengthening and environmental studies
Besides providing FEAM with modem information technology equipment, the institutional
strengthening undertaken has produced excellent management training results among FEAM professional
staff.
The studies made with a view to management of the Das Velhas River Basin were satisfactory. On
matters of law, the applicable state legislation was brought into line with the federal legislation which
requires water resources to be administered according to the principle that the user/polluter pays. As
regards the studies relating to formation of the committee and implementation of the river basin
management agency, the following subjects were considered and the respective studies delivered:
Section A:    Foundations of the Basic Management Model;
Section.B:    Preparation of Management Instruments (leading to development of (i) an Informatio
System and (ii) a Simulation System);
Section C:    Preparation of Planning Instruments;
Section D:    Institutional Design of the Agency;
-41 -



Section E:    Complementary studies.
The Das Velhas River Basin Committee was set up.
The study on industrial pollution control in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area produced
excellent results in defining the volumes of liquid wastes of household and industrial origin. The study was
expanded to make COPASA and the polluting industries responsible for deciding what should be done
about industrial effluents.
Large-scale environmental education programs were developed and carried out in order to publicize
the program and make sure that the public was informed as to its aims.
3.    BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank participated satisfactorily in all stages of the program. All the subcomponents included
during the preparation of the project (with the exception of the sewage treatment plants) were successfully
implemented, which demonstrates that the criteria applied in selecting them were relevant to the needs of
the time and that their implementation was feasible. The Bank was also cooperative in the search for
financial solutions that would help ensure that the program was not brought to a halt . However, the Bank
was lenient to excess regarding extension of deadlines agreed on by the state govemment and the
implementing agencies. The preparation and approval of TORs for the environmental studies significantly
overran the time set for approval, which led to delays in the contracting and execution of the studies and, in
certain cases, caused the results of the environmental programs to turn out below expectations.
4.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The participation of the state government and the implementing agencies was positive in the
following: (i) identification and preparation of the program; (ii) transfer of the PMU to SEAIN and
subsequently to SEPLAN and maintaining of the same team for four years; (iii) the financial solution
devised jointly with the Bank in March 1996, which made possible the implementation of the program; (iv)
the PMU team's good relationship with the implementing agencies and with the Bank; and (v) high quality
performance in the submission of accounts to the Bank and production of audit reports in accordance with
the agreed schedule.
Points that could be improved in future projects would be: (i) weak performance after contract
signature, owing to the implementing agencies' inability to produce detailed designs and/or TORs that
would allow organization of a bidding schedule compatible with the implementation period; (ii) failure to
plan availability of counterpart funds even after the program had been included on the state government's
list of priorities; (iii) failure to release funds for execution of the resettlement program, which undermined
the credibility of the team negotiating with the families concerned and gave rise to additional compensation
payments and costs; (iv) ineffective initiatives aimed at promoting construction of the sewage treatment
plants with private sector participation; (v) failure to provide resources to make the Das Velhas River
committee operational; and (vi) lack of firmness in dealing with civil works contractors on quality issues
and adherence to deadlines.
- 42 -



5.    LESSONS LEARNED
*   Carefully verify the feasibility of implementing each component, primarily those that depend on
specific legislation and regulations;
* Inform the communities involved about the program in order to make them participants in the process
and responsible for it;
* Spell out a schedule of deadlines based on mutual agreement between the implementing agencies and
the Bank, monitor it closely, and take prompt steps to avert delays;
* Set clear rules for the procurement process that are based on mutual agreement with the state agency
responsible for legal matters;
*   Do not initiate procurement procedures until basic/detailed designs and/or TORs have been fully
approved;
* Consider institutional strengthening subcomponents only when their sustainability is corroborated by
the institution concemed;
*   Set up the schedule of environmental education programs in such a way that they will be executed on a
priority basis so that they can be used to raise the awareness of the communities concemed and to
secure their involvement in accomplishing the aims of the studies and subcomponents;
* Give the green light for works that might be adversely impacted by resettlement processes only after the
resettlement has been effectively completed;
* Create a works quality verification program to be applied on a random basis;
* Study the possibility of preparing TORs for environmental programs jointly with Bank technical staff,
which would serve to prevent delays in approval of same;
* The implementation indicators selected for this program, with the exception of financial indicators and
indicators of progress with physical works, cannot be monitored owing to lack of memory of the
environmental conditions and quality of life prevailing in the area prior to implementation. For future
programs, indicators should be selected and the prevailing situation should be assessed before program
implementation begins.
6.    FUTURE ACTIONS
Various interventions still need to be considered for implementation in the Belo Horizonte
metropolitan area. The most significant concern:
* Flood control and urban drainage
* Industrial and domestic sewage collection, transportation and treatment
* Environmental education and protection
* Industrial solid waste collection and treatment
* Medical/hospital waste collection and treatment and leachate management at the Belo Horizonte
landfill
* Construction of the sewage treatment plant on the Onca River
* Establishment of the Das Velhas River Basin Agency
* Resettlement
The Belo Horizonte and Contagem municipalities have already developed a program to attend to
the above concems in the Pampulha Reservoir Basin (PROPAM).
In spite of the fact that this project is rated as being of high quality, it did not cover all the points
included in Loan 3554-BR.
- 43 -



The main objective of the operation is to eliminate all health and sanitation deficiencies in the Belo
Horizonte metropolitan area and thereby improve the quality of life of the low-income population.
The two municipalities have been encouraged to expand the scope of PROPAM' in order to have a
project that will serve a natural follow-on to PROSAM.
Institutional strengthening of some state government departments, as well as private sector
participation in sewage and solid waste management, should also be encouraged.
0  In March 1996, the state government gave a commitment to the Bank that two sewage treatment plants
(STPs) would be built in the downstream segments of the Arrudas and Onca Rivers. The construction
was to be carried out with private sector participation under a BOT contract. This commitment was
given in return for the Bank's agreement to increase the percentage financing of other selected civil
works by using funds previously allocated for construction of the STPs. Owing to key issues beyond
Bank control, the state government was unable to meet its commitment and to date only the Arrudas
STP is under construction, but without private sector participation. Because COPASA installed
almost 70 km of sewage interceptors in the Onca basin, collection of 2.4 m3 /s of sewage is feasible.
This creates a dilemma. On the one hand, if the interceptors come into operation and start collecting
the sewage generated in the Onca basin, it would be discharged directly into the Das Velhas River,
thereby aggravating the water pollution currently caused in the Das Velhas by untreated sewage of
Onca origin. On the other hand, if the interceptors are not brought into operation serious questions
about the need for their installation will arise. In this context, it is imperative that COPASA take all
necessary steps to start construction of the Onca STP as soon as possible, with private sector
participation, of course, and under arrangements consistent with the present government policy of
attracting investment.
Mainly the Capital cities of the southeatem and southem states.
2This reductions was a condition imposed by COFIEX for analyzing other loans to the state of Minas
Gerais.
In the municipalities of Belo Hprizonte and Contagem 1,041 families were resettled in new housed and
1,819 received compensation.
4
The reference here is to the decision made in March 1996 to increase the percentage share of civil works
in return for construction of the sewage treatment plants utilizing private sector contractors.
The quality checking process will follow a pre-agreed procedure and can be applied by the financing
agency at any time
Program similar to PROSAM but covering only the Pampulha Reservoir Basin.
-44 -



Annex 13. Borrower's Comments on ICR
SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DO PLANEJAMENTO E COORDENAQAO GERAL
SUPERINTENDONCIA CENTRAL DE PROGRAMAS
BANCO MUNDIAL - EMPR'STIMO 3554-BR
"A vida renasce nos rios de Minas'
UGP - PROSAM - MG
telefone : (31).248-3588/248-3589  fax: (31)-248-3505
N/Ref.      OF-P-SEPLAN 256/00
Assunto    Comentarios sobre o Relat6rio de Conclusao de Implementa,co do PROSAM -MG
Data        1 9-Abr-2000
Para        THE WORLD BANK
Fax         001 (202) 676-1821
Atensao     MRS. YOKO KATAKURA
De          Dr. Aluisio Eustaquio de Freitas Marques
Secretario de Estado do Planejamnento e Coordena,co Geral
Prezada Senhora,
Temos a satisfa,cao de encaminhar ao Banco Mundial nossos comentarios a respeito do
Relat6rio de avaliacao final de resultados do Programa de Saneamento Ambiental das Bacias
dos Ribeiroes Arrudas e On,a na Regiao Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte - PROSAMIMG,
elaborado pelo Banco.
A SEPLAN-MG analisou o documento, juntamente com todos os Agentes Executores, e
considerou que este apresenta, em linhas gerais, informac,es, avaliaq6es e conceitos por todos
aceitaveis.
Alguns aspectos mereceram, contudo, consideracoes especificas dos Agentes Executores
conforme exposto a seguir.
> Prefeitura Municipal de Belo Horizonte:
A PMBH enfatiza, em relacao ao item 5.4 do Relat6rio, que sua participacao financeira no
Programa diminuiu apenas no que concerne a contrapartida, tendo mantido seu encargo
quanto ao emprestimo ( US $ 33,7 milhoes), atraves do contrato subsidiario com o Banco
de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Minas Gerais - BDMG, no Fundo PROSAM.
> Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de Minas Gerais -COPASA-MG:
A COPASA-MG questiona a avaliag9o de " marginally satisfactory" para os sub-
componentes sob sua responsabilidade e acredita terem estes sido satisfatoriamente
cumpridos, em consideracao aos motivos a seguir expostos:
a implanta,ao de 282 km de redes coletoras de esgotos propiciou a coleta de 250 l/s
de esgotos, sendo que parte consideravel desta vazao (189 I/s) estava sendo lan,ada
na lagoa da Pampulha;
- 45 -



*  a implanta,co de 130 km de interceptores de esgotos propiciou a condu,ao de
esgotos sanitarios e industriais ate os locais das duas Esta,ces de Tratamento, nas
vazoes de 2,7 m3/s (Arrudas) e 1,6 m3/s (On,a);
* os esgotos industriais de Contagem e Belo Horizonte erarn lan,ados, em sua grande
maioria, nos cursos d'agua; com o PROSAM, os esgotos foram coletados e
interceptados pela COPASA;
*  a ETE Arrudas, esta em constru,co e devera ter concluida a sua etapa de tratamento
primario ainda este ano, no mes de outubro, o que permitira o tratamento primario
de mais de 60 % dos esgotos coletados em Belo Horizonte e Contagem;
* a construgao da ETE On,a nao foi ainda iniciada por falta de recursos financeiros
mas algumas providencias ja foram tomadas tais como: conclusao do projeto
executivo a nivel primario, obtencao da licen,a ambiental (licen,a de instala,ao)
junto ao COPAM - Conselho Estadual de Politica Ambiental, decreta,cao de
utilidade piTblica para fins de desapropria,ao de area de implanta,cao da ETE,
constru,co do interceptor pelo PROSAM ate a area da ETE;
*  a proposi,ao anterior de se implantar as duas ETEs mediante a aplica,ao do modelo
BOT ( Built-Operation-Transfer) se mostrou inviavel, apesar de todos os esfor,os
feitos pela COPASA, pelos seguintes motivos:
-  o contrato de concessao dos sistemas de agua e esgotos do Municipio de
Belo Horizonte a COPASA, cujo vencimento ocorrera em maio de 2.000,
nao foi ainda renovado, o que representa uma dificuldade para desenvolver
um BOT;
-  nao existe ainda no Brasil suficiente experiencia de aplica,co do sistema
BOT, especialmente a sistemas de saneamento;
- o pr6prio IFC (International Finance Corporation), entidade recomendada
pelo Banco para assessorar a estrutura,Ao do BOT, manifestou, em maio de
1999, impossibilidade de se envolver com este trabalho.
> Funda,cao Estadual do Meio Ambiente - FEAM:
A FEAM contesta a afirmativa contida no item 4.2.5 do Relat6rio de que " os
investimentos em interceptores e coletores de esgotos podem ser ampliados sem esta,ces
de tratamento nos proximos 10 anos, sem qualquer degrada,co adicional da qualidade
da dgua do rio das Velhas, em decorrencia de sua capacidade de assimila,o ".
Os resultados do monitoramento de qualidade das aguas superficiais da Bacia do Rio das
Velhas indicam tanto alto indice de degrada,co ambiental como aumento de potencial de
poluiqAo da bacia ao longo dos anos.
Ademais, em decorrencia da alta contribui,co poluidora dos Ribeir6es Arrudas e On,a,
verifica-se comprometimento da qualidade das aguas do Rio das Velhas em toda a regiao a
jusante destes cursos d'agua.
Ha que considerar, ainda, que a implanta,ao das unidades de tratamento e requerida para
que sejam atingidos os padr6es de qualidade da agua estabelecidos para o Rio das Velhas no
seu enquadramento.
A FEAM tem recomendado prioridade para a implanta,co das esta,ces de tratamento de
esgotos na continuidade do PROSAM.
- 46 -



Permanecendo a disposigdo para prestar os esclarecimentos adicionais que se fizerem
necessarios, manifestamos nosso apreco e consideracao e subscrevemo-nos
ciosamente
Aluisio Eustaquio de Freitas Marques
Secretario de Estado do Planejamento e CoordenaXo Geral
Presidente do CoWfte de C  ord  a-o do PROSAM
4ezunipape ASiSs,;a&jo
Diretor da Superinten,dncia CentitPdeiPfogramas Multissetoriais-SUCEM
Coordenador da UGP-PROSAM
- 47 -



Annex 13. Borrower's Comments on ICR (Unofficial Translation)
We are pleased to send to the Bank our comments regarding the final version of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) of the Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project. The State
Secretariat of Planning, together with the executing agencies, has analyzed the document and agrees, in
general, with the conclusion of the report. The following are the specific observations and clarifications
made by each of the executing agencies:
Belo Horizonte Municipality
Regarding Section 5.4 of the report, the municipality would like to emphasize that although the
municipality has reduced its counterpart fund contribution, it remains responsible for the repayment of the
loan (US$33.7 million) through a subsidiary loan agreement with the State Development Bank of Minas
Gerais (BDMG).
State Water Company (COPASA)
COPASA questions the "marginally satisfactory" rating of the subcomponent that was under its
responsibility (sewage collection and treatment), and believes that the subcomponent was executed in a
satisfactory manner, considering the following:
*   Thanks to the construction of 282 km of sewage collection network, 250 1/s of sewage is now collected,
instead of a large part of this sewage (about 189 V's) being discharged directly into the Pampulha lake
before the project.
Thanks to the construction of 130 km of sewage interceptors, 2.7 m3/s and 1.6 m3/s of domestic and
industrial sewage is now transported to the sites of Arrudas and Onca wastewater treatment plants,
respectively.
* The industrial sewage of Contagem and Belo Horizonte, majority of which used to be discharged into
the rivers before the project, is now collected and intercepted by COPASA.
* Once the construction of the first phase of Arrudas sewage treatment plant is completed later this year
(October), 60% of sewage collected in Belo Horizonte and Contagem municipalities will receive
primary treatment.
* Although the construction of Onca sewage treatment plant has not started yet because of the lack of
financial resources, certain preparatory actions have been taken. These include: (i) preparation of a
final project for the primary treatment phase; (ii) obtaining the environmental license from COPAM -
Conselho Estadual de Politicia Ambiental; (iii) obtaining a decree which allows the acquisition of land
of the future plant site for public use; and (iv) construction of interceptors up to the sewage treatment
site.
* The proposal to construct the two sewage treatment plants through a BOT (Built-Operation-Transfer)
arrangement has proved unfeasible despite all the efforts made by COPASA, for the following reasons:-
- The concession contract between Belo Horizonte and COPASA for the latter to provide water and
sewerage services for the municipality will expire in May of 2000 and has not been extended, which in
turn, made it difficult to implement a BOT;
- There has not been enough experiences in Brazil with BOT contracts, especially with sewage
treatment plants;
- IFC (International Finance Corporation) which once offered technical assistance to carry out the
BOT informed COPASA in May of 1999 that it can no longer offer such assistance due to other
commitments.
-48 -



State Environment Foundation (FEAM)
FEAM does not agree with the statement in section 4.2.5 of the Report that "the investment with
interceptors and sewerage collection could be expanded without ETEs for the next 10 years without any
additional degradation to the water quality of the das Velhas River because of its capacity of assimilation".
The results of the monitoring of water quality of das Velhas river indicate high level of environmental
degradation as well as potential increase in pollution. In addition, because of the high level of pollution
created by Arrudas and On9a rivers, the quality of water in the down stream of das Velhas is compromised.
Furthermore, the construction of the sewage treatment plants is needed to attain the water quality standards
established for das Velhas river. FEAM recommends that the construction of the sewage treatment plants
be the priority for any follow-up projects.
Please let us know if you need any clarifications.
Aluisio Eustaquio de Freitas Marques
State Secretary of Planning and General Coordination
President of PROSAM Coordination Committee.
Benicio de Assis Araujo
Director of Central Superintendence of Multisector Programs - SUCEM
Coordinator of PROSAM Project Coordination Unit
-49 -






,-An.g                                                                   4400              ,            >': j,,''r7' i.s ............... IBRAZILDERGB30869
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35
"VENEZUELAZIL
.2\.                                         t                                    MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND                                                        ON,A
6el; i->rS ' POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT                                                                                                                                       S>TrewagtleNeCNT         4 NR
I         ) ~~~~~~~~~~x(Pan4I
B 'R A Z ^E fL    4-                                                                                                          DA ONCA
B;  A       rt)L,Atfrm. ,. 
t ARGENTIN                                                                                      wHw > .. '.)  DA  ONCA  v INTERCEPTOR   a
PERU                                                                        Botanical            Pampulh                                       P
ER    144  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              c~~~~~~ ~ Garden           ReserIoi
/ BOVA BR
DAFLRE 'n>7 0..              7                                                                                          H  O 67                  TE@<6 
DA ONCA ~ ~ ~                     CNAAN
SEWAGE PUMPINGWAND    ,                                                                                                                  INTERCEPT/R BA
2s "           SARANDI CANAl                                                       WATER BASIN P
VARGEM                                AND INTERCEPTOR                                                                                                                         S ABA            A
DAS FLORES
WATER                                                                                                                 HOUING
BASIN                                                                                                                 HORIZO4TI
51                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~4 VARGEM DS PLPEEOBAS
or   SEWAGE PUMPING AND                                                               III                                     I''WATEREASIJOUNT
LAANI  ANDgLP~
{.:sepsollee ur oucil & _ _t } WILOMETER5 etf}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Ude cnsrutin
h   /nd nes  , 4U05  |   {-    ~   t_ _   44   t   43t55
*'.INTERCEPTOR-
FERRUGEM CANAL                       ARDSPROJECT:
AND INTERCEPTOR                    WATER BASIN
I,                                                                    - 'I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEWAGE COLLECTORS
AGABRANCA                  ertoj                                                                                                                    ANAL ACCESS RADS
B  ET IM                 TINECPO                                                                 g        NDITRETR                                                                        SEWAGE INTERCEPTORS
A ,,innd                                                                      H4RIVERS
4',~~~~~~~~~~~~~n40nnn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                                                                          AE BSNBOUNDARIES
A                                                                                                                    1r' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-0  35       MUNICIPALOUARE
I                                   A"%w                                                               777i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35



