y'k.t/             J    .'l   /  I/
Document ot'
The World Bank
FOR OFF('IALt  SE ONL Y
Report No. 10805-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL
PROJECT
DECEM4BER 1, 1992
Infrastruicture Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mas be used bs recipients onJs in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mas not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



'0t <   >   /  I  03
NI A-   V, 'N N Nz           I S)3i
.6R2         7     K N'   )>^S Al NIl) AUVg)N} ,tS
!7tinas (iG  iis  R)c e2           i nInc  Btr K  0 Ban'@ JI.   %' ,LlN it'LmAe 2:; IS
,..trais)
J-i) Hof izotlte2  Nlou1rorpw un  A  e
*       M ll.ogii  al   )x\gen  [)en'ulldi
}T   -<                                                Ra''lelii   ,s  ;tio!
.. c .st-Bonyht AnW  !sIs
!ti st   n       ,t te -n.-tW   Corcii (C  tnseillIt          O  JW  dO  Nieo  a                'U'h! n
s0ini (J tieri. '     ttc \c~;'                    K7imK       ~    :i  'n.n    J' *-
!.:, .K . i'.iJ inn, Gerais Lf:nviron:tl. A *. A -   ,  . UliUda i  v>.  .. t) xkiO ,.
K4'.                              ;N.t  trL.t! §lll  1)!i <'''  t. I........ 'UN'1;v' IrvflL  ',> bruN.X:;,1 S'.   - .IV '0;  RiKIA';t'V
t(JN1                               >alcu  1'x.l  (In I' !;  ' L%) d,. N  ;1t8 IA
V-I.                                !'ropIn\  I                ,M              r    ''lL1 (2  let fal   li,la'  t78 0I I 
P                                   )r  *  I dtefl     Rat  (ite  o(  tt Urt
NSS                                  NUciUl st.:nrits  Nmiwo'  In-Tr In
'IA\S                                MIiuitrv ot' Soini \I'e eh
Nonl   goverrment (Drit O        -      /ojr.
O(d ftgl   i')nlte J NIuCTni 'S:     iS'
NI .'                                  " Aontagern    1          i
OAIA                       X0~~~Itk,t9jIt  E:Inx jUfrlUIA  Ni! il ti''  (Pt>;  :  . i   n)J di(.  >1evi   ^,tf SIn   ;.
NI                         l SCjl,, e,,&   sit atii on JCJ 't:rf-;r>irT.ltil t Iti  'I Fl .'
- PL" %   ;'m                                   ' I\       e      i    l    ,.
i~~~~~~~~~~ I   ,   N @'5 ii1;le> jlj '\., ltii ;li 
N~~~~~~ ~~ * *.                                     A;             K X   ANA .. V.  *   l3vt  . 'i CN!.  . *. '<l   rK Alit,
|~ ~ ~~~~~~e.                                         >2Km,.f T,,,,fltet.t.'iv(,",



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER OUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
Loan and Project Summary ............................................   i
I. INTRODUCTION  ....................................1..........    I
A. Background  ..............................................                                 1
II. WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT                            .....................                          2
A. Economic Managemcnt of Water Pollution ...........................   2
B. Water Basin Management . .....................................  3
C. Water Quality and Pollution Control in Brazil .........................   3
D. Water Quality and Pollution Control in Belo Horizonte
Metropolitan Area ...........................................  5
E. Strategies for Water Pollution Control ..............................    6
III. THE PROJECT  ... ............................................   8
A. Background  .............................................                                  8
B. Project Objectives and Rationale  ..........            .......................    8
C. Project Description  . ........................................    9
D. Costs and Financing .........................................  10
E. The Borrower and Executing Agencies  .............................  11
F. Status of Project Preparation ...........           .........................   12
G. Financial and Economic Aspects of the Project ........................  12
H. Financial Status of the Borrower and the Beneficiaries ....................  14
I. Poverty Aspects  ...........................................   16
J. The Environmental Impact . ...........................  ........   16
K. Implications for Sector Policy .      ..................................   18
L. Project Implementation . ................................ 18
M. Project Risks       ...............                      ...............   22
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........                               .................  22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil from July 7 to 10,
1992. The report was prepared by Emilio H. Rodriguez, Antonio Estache and Abel Mejia. Manuel
Mariflo (LATIE), Carl Bartone (INURD), Eduardo Abbott (LEGLA), William Partridge (LATEN),
Beatriz Martinez, Salahuddin Ahmad (LAIIN), Ronaldo Seroa da Motta, Adrian de Maic, Leon
Taylor, Victor Coelho, Vera Bazzanella and Leopoldo Bartolome (Consultants) participated in project
preparation. Francisco Lobato of the Ministry of Social Welfare of Brazil coordinated project
preparation by the Brazilian counterparts. Asif Faiz, Vahram Nercissiantz and Armeane M. Choksi
are the managing Division Chief, Project Advisor, and Department Director, respectively, for the
operation. Carl Bartone and John Briscoe (INUWS) served as peer reviewers for the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LUst of Tables
3.1    Project Cost Sumnmary
3.2    Povery Groups Benefitting from the Projec
3.3    Project Costs by Proc :rement Method
Uist of Annexes
Annex 1. Bank Loans to Brazil for Water Supply and Sewerage
Annex 2. Project Description
Annex 3. Resettlement
Annex 4. Industrial Pollution
Annex 5. Summary of Costs
Annex 6. Annual Investments/Investment Distribution by Sources
Annex 7. Structure of Costs
Annex 8. Organizational Structure
Annex 9. Agreements and Financial Flows
Annex 10. Cost/Benefit Analysis
Annex 11. Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
Annex 12. Enviromnental Assessment Summary
Annex 13. Obligations of the Executing Agencies
Annex 14. Quarterly Project Execution
Annex 15. Monitoring Indicators
Annex 16. Bidding Package
Annex 17. Loan Disbursement Schedule
Annex 18. Rio das Velhas Water Basin Agency - Strategic Planning
Annex 19. Selection Criteria for Subprojects
Annex 20. Supervision Plan
Annex 21. Project File
Map No. IBRD 24157



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower (Amount):           State of Minas Gerais (US$145 million equivalent).
Guarantor:                   The Federative Republic of Brazil.
Terms:                       Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, with interest at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project Objectives
The principal project objective is to recuperate the environmentally deteriorated urban basins
of the Arrudas and Onca rivers in the metropolitan area of Belo Horizonte, the capital of the State of
Minas Gerais and one of the most congested industrial areas in Brazil. The project will also protect the
das Velhas river from effluents generated in the metropolitan area. Related objectives are: (i) to develop
institutional capabilities for environmentally sustainable management of these water basins particularly
through the introduction of modern land use management, cost recovery mezhanisms, and an efficient
legal and regulatory framework; and (ii) to improve the quality of life of approxii'ately three million
inhxbitants of the two urban basins, through the rehabilitation and expansion of basic sanitation
infrastructure, i.e., sewers, solid waste collection and disposal, and drainage.
Project Description
The project consists of five main components: (i) flood control and urban drainage,
including macrodrainage of all rivers and creeks in the water basin; (ii) municipal and industrial sewage
collection and treatment, which includes about 280 km of interceptors and sewers and two sewage
treatment plants; (iii) municipal and industrial solid waste collection and disposal, which includes
improvements in solid waste collection in the area and a sanitary landfill; (iv) urbanization, including the
creation of public areas, restoration of vegetation and resettlement; and (v) environmental protection and
waterbasin management, including studies for the protection of the das Velhas river and the control of
industrial pollution in the area and institutional strengthening of the State Enviromnental Agency (FEAM).
Project Benefits
The principal project benefits are the restoration of water quality in the system of rivers,
creeks and reservoirs in the metropolitan area of Belo Horizonte, and the improvement of the quality of
life in areas surrounding these water bodies. Water quality has a direct bearing on public health,
biodiversity, use of water resources, and preservation of a safe and healthy environment. Quality of life
in the area will be enhanced by flood control, land reclamation, extension of sewerage and sanitation
services, and creation of parks and recreational areas.



. jj .
Project Risks
The main risks affecting the project are associated with the innovation of setting-up water
basin authorities to integrate multi-institutional environmental efforts and responsibilities, and the social
and political complexities associated with population resettlement. To minimize these risks, the project
provides for a well-staffed project unit in one of the leading development institutions in Brazil--Banco de
Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais. In addition, the executing agencies have a group of highly qualified
technicians experienced in dealing with environmnental issues.
Pr-nject Costs                             (US$ million)
Flood Control and Urban Drainage                         101.0
Municipal and Industrial Sewage
Collection and Treatment                                135.0
Solid Wastes Collection and Disposal                       4.7
Environmental Protection                                   7.8
Environmental Management                                   8.5
Project Management                                         7.0
Base Cost                                                264.0
Physical Contingencies                                    13.2
Cost at December 31, 1991 prices                         277.2
Price Contingencies                                       30-4
Total Cost                                               307.6
Flnancing Plan                             (USS million)
Bank                                                     145.0
State of Minas Gerais                                     53.0
COPASA-MG                                                 78.9
Municipality of Belo Hnrizonte                            22.6
Municipality of Contagem                                   8.
Total Project Cost                                       307.6
Estimated Bank Disbursements               (US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year           1993         1994        1995         1996       1997
Annual                     32.3         35.0        42.6         24.8       10.3
Cumulative                 32.3         67.3       109.9        134.7      145.0
Rate of Return:    30 percent.



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.1    Traditional mining activities in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area and the explosive urban
growth and industrialization over the past several decades have been accompanied by increasing urban
environmental degradation in the area. One of the most critical environmental issues is the pollUtion of
rivers i...:d reservoirs close to the expanding city.
1.2    Water pollution results from  two basic, and interrelated, reasons: (i) the environmentally
uncontrolled industrialization; and (ii) the inability to create appropriate urban and sanitation
infrastructure, particularly for the low income and favela population who invade vacant areas close to the
water bodies. Typically, the process starts with industries disposing untreated wastes into the natural
drainage system, and with favelas invading hazard prone lands, located mostly on river banks and steep
slopes, generally ill-suited for provision of basic infrastructure.  Additionally, inadequate sectoral
investments and unrealistic zoning practices have resulted in unmt.t demand for environmental
infrastructure, especially for controlling floods and collecting and treating wastes The main water
pollution sources are: industrial and mining waste, municipal sewage, storm water run-o.f, uncontrolled
dumping of solid wastes, erosion, and mudslides. Another important concern is flooding of densely
occupied urban areas, as a consequence of increasing run-off, and shorter concentration times in the
drainage basin, with rainfall averaging 1,800 mm annually.
1.3    A failure to institute sound pricing policies for bodi the provision of services and the use of
resources has contributed to poor environmental management and inadequate provision of infrastructure.
In general, pollution control has been seriously cr.strained by inadequate leve:s of InveIIient, a lack of
appropriate cost recovery, ineffective technology, insufficient coordination between different levels of
Government,inadequate capacity to enforce environmental regulatiors and standards, and limited
involvement of users and NGOs.
1.4    The project provides for a comprehensive approach to water basin management, that will help
integrate several sectoral functions and all three levels of government-federal, state and municipal as
well as the communiity in addressing water pollution issues in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area by
supporting: (i) critical investments needed to recover the deteriorated environment and to raise standards
of living; (ii) necessary policy changes with increased reliance on market-based mechanisms and cost
recovery; and, (iii) institutional reforms based on enhanced cooperation between state agencies and municipalities.



-2 -
1.5   t'e project area is located in the upper das Veihas river basin, and includes the two sub-basins
corres   ling to the Arrudas and da Onca rivers. The upper das Velhas basin has 3,600 square
kilometcrs of drainage area and a population estimated at 4.5 million. The Arrudas sub-basin, with an
area of 200 square kilometers, has a population of 1.5 million. T'he da Onca sub-basin, with an area of
212 square kilometeis, has a populariorn  f 1.2 million. The project area corresponding to the Belo
Horizonte metropolitan area is composed of eighteen municipalities including the municipalities of Belo
Horizonte and Contagem. This area, in addition to being the state's political and economic nerve center
has a important geomorphologic feature. Three of the most important rivers in Brazil have their spring
waters in the vicinity of the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area: (i) the Parana river system, as the main
fluvial artery of southern Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Argentina; (ii) the Doce and Paraiba do Sul
rivers-the main river system of the mid-Atlantic coast; and (iii) the Sao Francisco river, the most
important river in the northeast; whose watershed includes the das Velhas river basin, and the Arrudas
and Onca sub-basins. (see Map No. IBRD 24157).
1.6    The remainder of this report is structured as follows. Chapter II summarizes the current state
of the water pollution control efforts in Brazil, and describes the water pollution control law and the
constraints on its implementation. It also highlights policy and market failures in the sector, and presents
a medium-term approach to water pollution management in metropolitan areas of Brazil. Chapter III
describes the project, its objectives and main implementation features, in the context of the policy issues
raised in Chapter II. Finally, Chapter IV includes recommendations on the main agreements to be
reached with Brazilian authorities.
II. WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
A. Economic Management of Water Pollution
2.1    Water pollution promotes disease and reduces the economic value of bodies of water.
Misallocation of water uses, including uncontrolled pollution, arises beca4se market prices fail to reflect
social costs and benefits. When households and firms are left on their own, they will pollute
indiscriminately. The Project will help the Brazilian authorities to design an effective Government
regulatory framework to address these market failures, including the choice of policy instruments, the
assignment of responsibilities within the Government administration and the extent and scope of
coordination requirements for the successful implementation of policies when cross-jurisdictional issues
arise.
2.2    The economic instruments that can be relied on to ensure pollution control are assessed according
to three ciiteria: (i) their cost effectiveness, both in terms of the conventional resources (labor and capital)
for their implementation and the amount of information they require; (ii) their equity effects, on the basis
of the benefits principle; and, (iii) the degree to which environmental management at a water basin scale
is likely to be endorsed by coalitions- between municipalitieb, between polluters, etc.--endowed with
eiiough power to ensure effective enforcement of standards and regulations. The importance of the proper
assignment of instruments across government levels and across local jurisdictions to ensure the success
of pollution control is paramount because of the potentially damaging effect of inte~rjurisdictional
competition on enviromment responsibilities.
--Uw. .



-3 -
B. Water Basin Management
2.3   In order to attain effective management and control of water pollution, watfer resources must be
assessed withi . the larger perspective of a water basin, which reflects the overall drainage patterns. The
geographic, biological, and climatic features of a water basin form a relatively coherent ecological system
which makes it the basic natural unit for water resources management. For water quality management,
given its localized nature, a sub-basin, a division of the water basin, can function as an adequate unit for
planning and management, as long as it is viewed as part of the entire water basin. The water basin
approach provides an adequate framework to plan and manage water pollution problems in heavily
urbanized areas in Brazil such as the 3elo Horizonte metropolitan area. Finally, long-term water
management stability of water basin authorities is closely linked to their administrative independence and
financial autonomy, both of which are given critical consideration in the project.
C. Water Quality and Pollution Control In Brazil
Introduction
2.4    During the period 1940-1985, the urban population of Brazil grew by 83 million, increasing the
urban tax base from 30 to 73 percent. Most of this population growth and the concomitant pace of
industrialization (10.4 percent p.a. during the sevendes and early eighties) has been concentrated in nine
cities mostly located in the southern part of the country. The accelerated growth of metropolitan areas
has resulted in massive degradation of the limited natural resources, in particular the close-by water
sources. As this metropolitan growth was not accompanied by adequate investment in environmental
infrastructure and sanitation services, the environment and the quality of life in the metropolitan areas
has deteriorated significantly.
Water Pollution - Related Services
2.5    Access to water supply improved significantly during the seventies and eighties; the percentage
of urban population connected to public water supply systems increased from 50 percent to 86 percent
over the 1970-1989 period. Indirect access to public water sources also increased over the same period
from 3 percent to 9 percent. As -egards sewage collection, the development has been modest; the
percentage of people connected to urban public sewerage increased from 25 percent to 42 percent. About
50 percent of the population has relied on septic tanks and latrines-which is not necessarily undesirable-
while 10 percent had no access to a sanitation facility at all. Sewage treatment is partiai at best as only
10 percent of the sewage collected underwent some form of centralized treatment. In most locations, raw
municipal sewage is discharged into rivers or the ocean. Industrial water pollution is not well
documented, but available evidence suggests the importance of this type of pollution in 12 states. While
coverage of solid waste collection increased from 49 percent in 1981 to 60 percent in 1988, insufficient
municipal solid waste collection remains a problem, leading to a combination of land, air and water
pollution. Furthermore, collected waste is disposed in open air dumps rather than sanitary landfills.
Incineration or composting are seldom used; recycling is rare and informal.
p                   I



4-.
Polilies and Institutions
2.6    The Federal Government responsibilities for water quality management are discharged through
the Environmental Secretariat (SENAM) under the Presidency, and relate mostly to issues of water
standards and quality criteria. The Brazilian Institute o; the Environment and Renewable Natural
Resources (IBAMA) is responsible for formu,ating and enfcrcing federal environmental regulations
derived from the National Policy for the Environment. Federal agencie are not presently involved in
water pollution control activities in the metropolitan area of Belc Horizonte.
2.7    The state leve' responsibilities include the execution of programs and projects and the control of
activities that could adversely affect the environment. The states are also responsible for the preparation
of norms and standards to complement those enacted by IBAMA. The technical agency responsible for
water quality planning and control in the State of Minas Gerais is the State Environmental Agency
(Fundacao Estadual do Meio Ambiente, FEAM) while the S.Lte Council for the Environment (Conselho
Estadual do Meio Ambiente, COPAM), is responsible for the implementation of the National Policy for
the Environiment. FEAM  includes as part of its duties, support to municipalities n s tting up local
institutions and controls for the p. ,tection of environment. The constitution of the State of Minas Gerais
stipulates that protection of environment (especially water resources) is a public function of shared interest
among municipalities, and falls under the purview of metropolitan management.
2.8    Brazil water pollution law (Law No. 6.938 of 31/08/81) relies mostly on ambient and effluent
standards and zoning regulations. Policy guidance and basic minimum norms are set by the Federal
government, normally adapted from U.S. standards. The standards adopted across states tend to be
uniform, and only Rio and Sao Pauio have attempted to adjust limits taking into account the economic
cost of pollution. Minas Gerais has adopted the Federal standards which define five classes of water,
based on their main use. Quality objectives and, to some extent, emission limits are set accordingly.
For every specific water class, the law limits or prohibits ceitain discharges. It also provides a more
general limitaticn by prohibiting any discharge that will result in the change of the classification of a
water body. Public enterprises in charge of sewage disposal and treatment, however, are not required
to achieve any pre-established level of reduction in the pollution load they discharge.
2.9    Licensing is require.i for all new investments and projects that could possibly cause environmental
damage. This includes industries, housing developments and physical infrastructure. Environmental
impact assessments (RIMA) have been mandatory for these projects since 1985 and are used by the states
to impose a combination of technological and emission standards, through the licensing procedure.
Industries producing hazardous solid wastes are reouired by FEAM to comply with its program for the
safe disposai of these wastes. This program is *eing effectively managed by FEAM. The project
supports the program by providing installations with environmental safeguards for the disposal of
hazardous solid wastes (Annex 2).
2.10   The implementation of pollution control measures in Minas Gerais is carried out by FEAM under
the oversight of COPAM. However, FEAM is institutionally weak, has no laboratory of its own and
suffers from understaffing. It finds it difficulty to cover the entire state, and resources art insufficient
to conduct proper inspections on a regular basis. For the monitoring of water quality, FEAM uses the
laboratories and technical assistance of private and public institutions, especially the Technical Foundation
of Minas Gerais (Fundacao Centro Tecnologico de Minas Gerais, CETEC). FEAM is also in charge of
the inventory of pollution discharges and the licensing of new industries; tasks that are not carried out
effectively. Water quality monitoring of das Velhas and Paraopeba rivers has been carried out regularly



-.5
by FEAM through CETEC, since 1977. There are 15 monitoring stations, where a characterization of
the water quality is done with the analysis of relevant chemical and biological parameters. A water
quality index is calculated on the basis of nine of these parameters, following commonly accepted
procedurus.
2.11   The water utiliLy of Minas Gerais (Companr&ia de Saneamiento de Mi".., Uerais, COPASA-MG)
is respons.ble for water supply and sewerage services (including industiies) as an agent of most
municipalities in the State, including Belo Horizonte and Cont!-em. COPASA-MG, a well-structured
and adequately staffed water utility, is considered one of the leading institutions in the water sector in
Brazil.
2.12   Under a legal framework that devolves environmental protection functons and rasponsib;lities
to municipalities in the State of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizents and Contageir have formaliy set up
municipal-level institutions to look after environmental matters. Belo Horizonte has a Municipal
Secretariat for the Environnent established in 1983, responsible for planning, management and control
of the environment. In addition, in Belo Horizonte, there are numerous private organizations involved
ii environmental activities. in Contagem, there is a municipal council (CODEMA) for protecting the
envi:onment, which has been created with technical assistance from FEAM.  These institutional
arrangements, however, have not been effective in contro.ling water pollution in these municipalities,
partly because of the serious magnitude of the problem.
D. Water Quality and Pollution Control In Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Area
2.13  In most parts of the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area-particularly in the das Velhas and
Paraopeba river basins--water quality does not meet the required standards At virtually all monitoring
stations dissolved oxygen is substantially depleted and one or more quality parameters exceed the
permissible limit in 100 percent of the samples. Oiganic matter, phosphorous, toxic metals and cyanide
are commonly in concentrations that do iot meet the quality requirements for these rivers.
2.14   Of an estimated population of 2,286,000 in Belo Horizonte, about i,839,000 (80 percent) are
connected to the sewerage network, through 238,518 connections. In Contagem, 267,000 out of a
population of 551,000 (48 percent) are connected through 3',964 connections. Raw sewage is discharged
into the water bodies in the two municipalities; as a result, the Arrud. and Onca rivers are heavily
polluted and the Vargem das Flores and Pampulha reservoirs have suffer;.' om progressive degradation.
2.15   Water quality in metropolitan Belo Horizonte ranks among the worst in the state, as a result of
the high level of domestic and industrial dis, r ,es and the low dilution capacity of the Arrudas and Onca
rivers. The city now spreads over most of the catchment area and the river flow is totally composed of
combined industrial and municipal sewage and storm water. Oxygen levels in these two rivers are
normally below 1 ppm in most stretches located inside the urbanized area compared to a minimum
standard of 5 ppm. This situation causes evident health hazards and loss of amenities (recreation, fishing,
etc.) that adversely affect the areas along the rivers and the population settlements on their banks. The
discharge of the Arrudas and Onca rivers further degrades the water of the already polluted das Velhas
river, and downstream of the discharge from Belo Horizonte metropolitan area presents long stretches
of river with low oxygen content and poor water quality. Annex 10 details current water quality
indicators corresponding to the Arrudas, da Onca and das Velhas rivers and compares these values to
established Brazilian standards.



-6-
2.16   Industrial activity in the region is based on mining, steel mills and metal processing (23 percent
of the industr,es in Belo Horizonte and 28 percent in Contagem), although some important agroindustries
(11 and 14 percent) and textile factories (20 and 3 percesit) are alo present. 'he importance of the
metallurgical sector is explained by Lhe fact that more than 60 percent of the Brazilian iron-ore reserves
and 99.7 percent of the production of iron is concentrated in the state of Minas Gerais, while 16 percent
of the state reserves are located in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan area. Sixty-Aight percent of Brazilian
gold reserves are in Minas Gerais and 95 percent of the State's gold production takes place in the Belo
Horizonte metropolitan area. Most industries in Belo Horizonte ar.d Contagem are located in four
industrial districts, although some of the large industrial sources of organic pollution (mainly
agroindustries and textile) are spread throughout the city. The Arrudas river receives the main part of
the industrial discharges primarily from the metallurgical sector. Two enterprises, Mannesman and the
Companhia Siderurgica Belgo-Mineira, with discharges of 19,200 and 2,400 m'/d respectively, are major
polluters of this river, with both organic and inorganic pollutant loads.
2.17   Accordiag to FEAM data, collected between 1980 and 1982, and COPASA-MG cadastre of
industrial consumers, the total BOD5 load of the Arrudas and Sarane -Onca river basins can be estimated,
using unitary discharge ratios, at around 24,000 kg/d. The suspended solids load discharged by the
industry in these river basins is estimated at 15,000 kg/d. Apart from the load of organic matter and
suspended solids discharged by industries, discharges of toxic substances in industrial efluents are also
a major concern. Besides the impact on the quality of the receiving waters, and especially on their biota,
the presence of toxics and heavy metals jeopardizes the effectivene&a of biological sewage treatrnent and
restricts the reutilization of the sludge which will be produced by primary sedimentation. In order to plan
for the abatement of existing industrial discharges, the project includes a progratn for a detailed evaluation
of the industrial discharges into the Arrudas and Onca rivers and the design of the necessary policy
instruments and investment plans to control the industrial effluents.
E. Strategies for Water Pollution Control
Government Strategy
2.18   The strategy developed by the Federal Government to address water pollution issues derives from
four key considerations:
*     The Federal Gcvernient recognizes that water pollution problems in Brazil are related
to intense urbanization processes concentrated in major metropolitan areas within specifik
water basins.
O     The Government rebognizas the need for implementation of multi-sectoral investment
programs and appropriate policy instruments to address the pollutioi. ,.-blem.
*     It also recoenizes the need to place project implementation responsibility on sub-national
entities with strong institutional capacity, rather than relying on the limited capabilities
of the Federal institutions.
*     It acknowledges the need for cost recovery through the use of existing taxes and tariffs
and new mechanisms based on different levels of consumption.



-7-
Rationale for Bank Invo:vement
2.19   The Bank strategy in Brazil is to support policies and investments aimed at achieving
environmentally-sustainable economic growth and social development in the context of macroeconomic
stability. The primary emphasis is on efficient allocation of resources, increased efficiency and
accountability in the public sector, and the appropriate targeting and delivery of support services to the
poor. The project aims to promote these objectives through an integrated program of investment and
institutional strengthening tot cost-effective water pollution control. The project will focus on (i) required
policy changes, including an ir-.reased reliance on rnarket-based approaches and cost-recovery; and (ii)
institutional strengthening, including cooperation across government levels. The Bank will assist the
Brazilian authorities in designing an appropriate analytical framework f'r evaluating the costs and benefits
of pollution control to guide environmental policies and investment decisions.
Pas# Bank Involvement
2.20   The Bank has activelN participated in the development of'che Brazilian water sector. Since 1971,
sixteen water and sanitation loans (US$1.9 billion) have been approved to support the national sanitation
plan (PLANASA) objectives. (See Annex 2 for a list of projects) Although priority was given to water
supply, substantial investments were made for sewage collection, treatment and disposal, and for
drainage.  These operations have helped to achieve:  (i) decentralization of most water sector
responsibilities to the states including establishmenit of strong state water companies (SWCs) (ii)
application of sound economic principles for project investment; (iii) water tariff legislation permitting
a satisfactory degree of financial viability of the sector at the state level; and (iv) formulation and use of
modern financial and operational systems in the SWCs.
2.21    The Bank has recently approved a Water Sector Modernization Project (Loan 3442-BR) to assist
Brazil in the reformulation of the sector's organization and objectives, with primary emphasis on
improved efficiency through the use of commercal practices and regulatory arrangements to foster
competition. Additionally, the Banik has financed two industrial pollution control projects with major
beneficial impacts on urban areas and is now processing a nation-wide program. Recent municipal
development projects also include solid waste, sewerage, and drainage projects.
2.22   The Bank has only limited project experience in water pollution control. The Brazil Water
Quality and Pollution Control Project (Loans 3503, 3504 and 3505-BR), covering the states of Sao Paulo
and Parana, was approved in july 1992. This is the Bank's first self-standing municipal water pollution
control project based on a comprehensive water basin management approach. The proposed project
extends the Govermnent's water pollution control program to the State of Minas Gerais.
2.23   Past Bank experience in pollution control projects in Brazil is summarized as follows: (a) Bank-
supported projects have employed only a limited selection of cost recovery instruments, relying almost
entirely on tariffs; (b) Bank-supported projects overestimated industrial demand, basing needs on
estimated pollution loads; with high tariff levels, consumer demand diminished considerably, and
industries relied, instead, on in-house sewage treatment plants (although monitoring and
control/enforcement of industrial discharges was questionable); (c) pollution control projects should have
taken an integrated approach to accommodate municipal, agricultural, and industrial sources; (d) past
project approaches to pollution control have relied on political, administrative or managerial units, rather
than dealing with the water basin--the natural environmental unit. The Project addresses the above issues,
and will help establish sound policies including carefully-designed charges for services.



III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.1    The decertralization of responsibilities for infrastructure services decreed in Brazil by the new
Constitution has spawned innovative local initiatives to provide water and sanitation services. In this
context, groups of municipalities have started to develop associations to prepare proposals, seek financing
and execute water resource management and pollution control projects.
3.2    During 1990, some state governments and the Sanitation Secretariat at the Ministry of Social
Welfare (MAS) started to discuss with the Bank the possibilities of Bank support for some of the above
regional initiatives. Since then, a process of screening and prioritizing water pollution problems has taken
place, based on the economic and social costs involved in each state proposal, the local willingness to act
and the degree of project preparation. The Bank is participating in the financing of two local initiatives
to protect the Guarapiranga reservoir in the Sao Paulo metropolitan area and the Upper Iguazu river in
metropolitan Curitiba, Parana (Loans 3503, 3504 and 3505-BR). This project extends the programn to
the Arrudas, da Onca and das Velhas rivers in Belo Horizonte.
3.3    The Project was identified in February, 1991. Three Bank missions, in June and September,
1991, assisted MAS and concerned State institutions in project preparation. The project was appraised
in July 1992. Loan Negotiations took place from November 9 to 13, 1992.
B. Project Objectives and Rationale
3.4    The main goal of the project is to recuperate the environmentally deteriorated urbarn basins of the
Arruda and Onca rivers. The Project will also help start the program for improving water quality in the
das Velhas river. Specific objectives are twofold: (i) develop institutional capabilities to manage the
water basin in an environmentally sustainable way through the introduction of modern land use incentives,
cost recovery mechanisms, and an efficient legal and regulatory framework; and (ii) improve the quality
of life of approximately 2.7 million inhabitants of the two urban basins mentioned above, through the
rehabilitation and expansion of basic sanitation infrastructure, i.e., sewers, solid waste collection and
disposal and drainage in two municipalities (Belo Horizonte and Contagem) as well as housing
improvement and park development.
3.5    To develop the institutional capabilities for water basin management, the project will address some
key needs, namely: (i) clarifying state and municipal responsibilities for laws and regulations concerning
environmental protection at a water basin scale; (ii) setting up an institutional framework to integrate state
and municipal participation in the inter-disciplinary management of the water basin; (iii) developing
market mechanisms to control environmentally damaging land use; (iv) introducing innovative cost
recovery instruments; (v) establishing mechanisms for industrial pollution control; (vi) strengthening of
the state environmental agency (FEAM); (vii) promoting NGO participation to enhance project
effectiveness and encourage envirommental education; and (viii) introducing adequate water quality
monitoring programs and environmentally sound operations and maintenance practices.



- 9 -
3.6    To improve the quality of life of the mostly low-income and favela population living in the two
municipalities within the water basin, the project will: (i) support COPASA investment program to
expand sewers and interceptors within the two urban basins, and to build the first phase of two sewerage
treatment plants on the Arrudas and Onca rivers. These investment projects are part of a larger COPASA
program to depollute the Arrudas and Onca rivers; (ii) complete the macrodrainage system for flood
control, and rehabilitate the basic drainage infrastructure at the water basin and urban levels; (iii) improve
solid waste collection and final disposal in the two municipalities; (iv) implement a resettlement program
for favela and low-income population livii,g in hazard-prone areas, unsuitable for basic infrastructure
provision; (v) reforest heavily eroded areas affecting river flow and slope stabilization; and (vi) develop
recreational parks to enhance the living environment in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan area.
3.7    The project will foster a new approach for water basin management, based on effective
coordination among the sectoral institutions. This coordination would feature the two municipalities,
COPASA, the water company, and FEAM, the state environmental agency. During preparatory
meetings, the need for cross-sectoral and cross-governmental integration was emphasized as a
precondition fo, project success. The local authorities were responsive and, agreed to create a single
integrated project execution unit at the Minas Gerais Development Bank (BDMG). During the first two
years of project implementation, the executing unit will prepare the supporting studies and obtain
approvals for the establishment of a Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Water basin Management Authority.
A mid-term review after two years of project implementation will review the status of the proposed water
basin management authority.
3.8    Long-term water basin management stability is closely linked to administrative independence and
financial autonomy.  These two conditions are R critical element to guarantee project success.
Accordingly, a surcharge for the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan water use and wastewater discharges is
currently under consideration, among other revenue mechanisms, to internalize environmental water basin
management costs.
3.9    Traditional approaches to land use management, ;.:lely based on regulation are insufficient to
handle the complex dichotomy of urban expansion and environment degradation. The project will present
practical solutions to one of the most critically polluted water basins in Brazil, relying on existing and
well-performing sectorial agencies and municipalities and their recent willingness to integrate efforts at
the water basin level. Among the specific proposals envisaged to reduce distortions in land use pricing
are adequate pricing policies for resources and services, which will promote environmentally safe
activities in the metropolitan area with increased land values and potential revenue yields, and the
development of recreational areas and parks to protect the most critical and damaged area.
C. Project Description
3.10          The project to be implemented over five years consists of five main components: (i) flood
control and urban drainage; (ii) municipal and industrial sewage collection and treatment; (iii) municipal
and industrial solid waste collection and disposal; (iv) environmental protection and urbanization; and,
(v) water basin management. Project description is given in Annex 2. Resettlement is detailed in Annex
3 and the industrial pollution control plan in Annex 4. Detailed description of each project component
is in the Project File. A summary description of the project is given below:
0      The flood control and urban drainage component (39 percent of project cost) includes:
(i) 6 km of a flood control channel on the Arrudas river; and (ii) approximately 10 km



- 10-
of main channels, to complete the urban macrodrainage systems for the Sarandi,
Ferrugem, and Onca rivers;
*     The municipal and industrial sewage collection and disposal component (50 percent of
project cost) includes: (i) 77 kms of interceptor and pressure mains, (ii) 210 kms of
network expansion and 14,000 new sewer connections; and (iii) two primary treatment
plants able to treat a total 8.8 m3/s of sewage;
*     The municipal and industrial solid waste collection and disposal component (2 percent of
project cost) is designed to improve solid waste collection in both municipalities,
including the establishment of the Perobas sanitary landfill in Contagem, making special
provision for the disposal of hazardous wastes;
*     The environmental protection and urban land use component (3 percent of project cost)
includes: (i) restoring river bank vegetation, development of public areas, and
recreational facilities along the Arrudas and Onca rivers; (ii) developing the Pampulha
Reservoir ecological and recreational park; and (iii) the resettlement of about 1,600
families (Annex 3); and
e     The water basin management component (4 percent of project cost) includes:  (i)
preparation of studies and organization of the public and government consultation process
needed to develop a proposal for the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Water basin Authority;
(ii) preparation of an environmental master plan for the Arrudas and Onca water basins
to integrate sectoral plans for land use, sewerage, solid waste, industrial and mining
development, and water quality; (iii) training programs for water basin environmental
management, technical and financial support to NGOs and technical assistance to the two
municipalities to meet their local environmental planning and management needs; (iv) an
environmental management information system and consultant services for project
monitoring and technical audit!' ig; (v) water quality and pollution control studies for das
Velhas river; (v) studies for inLustrial pollution control (Annex 4); and (vi) institutional
strengthening of the state environmental agency (FEAM).
D. Costs and Financing
3.11   The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$307.6 million equivalent. Project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 5. Annex 6 shows annual investments and the
distribution by source of financing; and Annex 7 contains a breakdown of project costs in civil works,
materials and equipment and consultant services. The foreign exchange requirement is estimated at about
US$70.0 million (23 percent of total). Costs based on December 30, 1991 prices, and including five
percent physical contingencies for equipment, works and services, amount to US$277.2 million. Price
contingencies of US$30.4 million, or 11 percent of the December, 1991 project costs, are based on an
estimated average international inflation rate of 3.9 percent per annum during the project implementation
period. Due to high local inflation rates, costs estimates were prepared in cruzeiros (Cr$) and then
converted to US dollars. Costs include indirect taxes (about US$30 million). Even though the exemption
from import duties for materials procured under international financing has been cancelled, such duties
are not considered, based on the assumption that the executing agency will be able to obtain a waiver.
Interest during construction is not included.



-i 11 -
Table 3. 1
Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
Project Component                                Base Cost
Flood Control and Urban Drainage                                     101.0
Municipal and Industrial Sewage Collection and Treatment             135.0
Municipal and Industrial Solid Waste Collection and Disposal           4.7
Environmental Protection                                               7.8
Environmental Management                                               8.5
Project Management                                                     7.6
Sub-Total                                                            264.
Physical Contingencies                                                13.2
Price Contingencies                                                   3G.4
Total Cost                                                           307.6
3.12   Cost estimates for equipment, materials and works of the water and sewerage component are
based on existing basic engineering designs and unit prices of similar recent works and acquisitions
carried out by the executing agencies. About 632 man months of consulting services are included for
studies and technical assistance; 712 for completing project preparation and supervision; and 136 for
project management. The consultants' average cost is estimated about US$12,500 per man-month, and
represents rates as currently billed to include salaries, social costs, and the firms' overhead and profits.
3.13    A Bank loan of US$145.0 million equivalent will help finance all foreign exchange and some
local costs, amounting to 47.1 percent of the estimated project cost. The loan will have a term of 15
years, including five years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The balance would be
provided as follows: (i) US$53.0 million (17.2 percent of total project cost) by the State of Minas
Gerais; (ii) USS78.9 million (25.7 percent) by COPASA; (iii) US$22.6 million (7.3 percent) by the
municipality of Beio Horizonte; and, (iv) US$8.1 million (2.6 percent) by the municipality of Contagem.
The loan guarantor will be the Government of Brazil. The state of Minas Gerais will guarantee the full
amount of counterpart financing needed.
E. The Borrower and Executing Agencies
3.14   The Borrower is the State of Minas Gerais, which will execute the project through a special unit
Unidad Gereiiciamiento do Programa' >UGP) at the BDMG. UGP will have full responsibility for
project management and will be composed at a minimum of a project manager, a financial analyst, an
environmental engineer, a procurement officer, and a sociologist (to advise on resettlement issues). A
qualified manager from BDMG was appointed as project manager during project preparation. UGP will



- 12 -
coordinate project execution with four sectoral agencies: COPASA, the municipality of Belo Horizonte,
the municipality of Contagem, and FEAM.  It was agreed during Loan Negotiations that the
municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem may delegate to the State the execution of works under
Part A of the Project. The four executing agencies, have proven experience in carrying out similar
projects and have qualified staff. They will execute the project under the supervision and control of
UGP. Each agency has appointed a coordinator io channel all project matters to and from UGP. After
project execution is completed, the water basin will be managed by a unit to be established under the
project. It is foreseen that this unit will serve as the embryo organization for the das Velhas River Basin
Authority. Annex 8 contains the organization chart of the project. Annex 9 shows the institutional
agreements and financial flows.
F. Status of Project Preparation
3.15   A project coordinating unit, created at the Minas Gerais Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN), assisted
by qualified consultants, conceived and designed the project. During the preparation period, four
meetings with all the participating institutions and two workshops (one on procurement and another on
resettlement) took place. In addition, there were hearings with concerned NGOs. A five volume project
evaluation report is in the Project File. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) required by the
Brazilian law, RIMA, has been completed and approved by the State authorities. A summary of this EIA
has been distributed to the Board. The risks of delayed project start and slow disbursement of Loan funds
after signature have been minimized as the State of Minas Gerais submitted at Loan Negotiations: (i)
final designs representing in aggregate value 20 percent of the project cost; (ii) terms of reference for
UGP; (iii) the list of coordinators for each executing agency; (iv) terms of reference for all studies to be
carried out under the project; (v) terms of reference for management consultants (vi) final draft
documents for project institutional agreements; (vii) final draft standard procurement documents and
standard letter of invitation for consultants; (viii) project operational manual; (ix) a plan for the
institutional strengthening of FEAM; (x) final designs for resettlement; (xi) terms of reference for a study
to evaluate expected improvements in living standards; (xii) evidence of completion of legal actions for
land expropriation; and (xiii) assurances of timely funding for the required land expropriations and
housing projects. In addition, it was agreed during Loan Negotiations that the contract with consultants
in charge of the preparation of an industrial pollution control plan (Annex 4) be formalized before Loan
Effectiveness. The terms of reference for this plan have been agreed during Loan Negotiations.
G. Financial and Economic Aspects of the Project
Introducdion
3.16   The evaluation of the project includes: (i) the identification of both major polluters in the water
basin and project beneficiaries, (ii) an assessment of financial and economic returns, and (iii) a discussion
of cost recovery options. As measurement of pollutant loads are not available, pollution estimates are
based on standard characteristics of the polluters' output or, in some cases, inputs. Benefits are mostly
associated with improved  environmental conditions brought about by improvements in the overall
infrastructure surrounding the water basin. Other benefits are identified from an analysis of the activity
and use of resources in each sub-basin prior to the environmental degradation of the sub-basin. The
financial rate of return is calculated for those investments that generate a flow of market priced goods
and services. Since many of the project benefits do not have a market value directly associated with the



- 13 -
costs involved, the financial cost-benefit analysis (CBA) only gives a lo wer-bound value for the economic
return of the project. The economic CBA internalizes other benefits which are assessed through their
opportunity cost or the willingness-to-pay for environmental services by the affected population. The cost
recovery analysis includes all financial flows accruing to the agencies responsible for project
implementation. The analysis also includes the identification of potential additional revenues to enhance
project cost recovery.
Sources of Pollution
3.17   Domestic and industrial wastewater and uncontrolled runoff are the main sources of pollution of
the Arruaas and da Onca r:vers. As provision of sewerage and sewage treatment facilities has not kept
pace with the urban growth in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area, a large volume of raw sewage is
discharged directly into the two rivers. Most of the urban growth in the metropolitan area has been
associated with the development of heavy industry and mining during the economic boom of the 1970s.
Many industries are located upstream, in Contagem, where effluents are discharged freely into the rivers.
3.18   Matrices showing pollution sources and estimated discharges for each sub-basin with and without
the project are presented in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 10. As shown in Table 1, domestic sewage is the
main pollutant, although industrial pollution is also significant. The indicators shown in the tables include
BOD, suspended solids, nitrogen and phosphorus, but do not include heavy metals--the basic determinants
of toxicity of industrial discharges. Metal contamination of the water bodies is expected to be significant
given the concentration of mining and metallurgical activities in the sub-basins. In recognition of this
fact, the project provides for the preparation of an industrial pollution control plan (paras. 3.15 and 3.35
and Annex 4). The prevalence of sewage as the main source of water pollution suggests that, domestic
and industrial water tariffs could provide a large share of the cost recovery for the project. According:y,
it will be an important objective of the project to identify, characterize and connect industries to public
sewerage. Table 2 of Annex 10 shows the project's pollution abatement benefits.
3.19   Pollution abatement measures under the project are confined to the Arrudas and da Onca water
basins which practically coincide with the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area. Most pollutants discharged
into the rivers will be intercepted and conveyed downstream to two sewage treatment plants located
above the das Velhas river. The present discharge of the tributaries into das Velhas sharply depletes the
dissolved oxygen in the main river and creates poor environmental conditiosis in a 40 mile stretch of das
Velhas river. The concentration of sewage discharges into das Velhas at two points resulting from the
project's sewage interception and conveyance would further deteriorate water quality if no sewage
treatment was provided. The two primary sewage treatment plants will reduce pollution loads in terms
of BOD by about 40 percent. As a result, substantial environmental degradation will be avoided and a
basis for future protection programs will be established. As no data were available during project
preparation to evaluate the economic benefits of further cleaning up the affected 40-mile stretch of the
river, the project provides for carrying out studies or, das ielhas water quality and the economic
feasibility of additional pollution abatement and control measures. These studies will take into account
water pollution from intensive mining activities concentrated upstream of the metropolitan area. These
studies are critical for affective environmental management of the das Velhas river.



- 14 -
Project Benefits and Benefidaries
3.20   The principal project benefits are flood control in heavily urbanized areas, the restoration of water
quality in the rivers, creeks and reservoirs in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area, and improvement of
quality of life in areas surrounding these water bodies. Water quality is associated with improved
hygienic conditions (decreased infant mortality and -educed incidence of water borne diseases),
preservation of biodiversity, improvements in health and quality of life, and preservation of a safe and
clean urban environment. Table 3 in Annex 10 lists the project benefits, which include, inter-Ai, the
preservation of water supply sources, flood control, land reclamation and improved land use in hazardous
areas, extension of sewerage services, and creation of recreational areas. Other project benefits are the
enhancement of water uses in the das Velhas river, the financial strengthening of COPASA and the
municipalities, and the development of water basin management capabilities. Table 4 in Annex 10 shows
estimates of the population that will benefit from each project component.
Financial Cost-Benefit Analysis
3.21   The estimates of financial benefit cost ratios (B/C ratios) and internal rates of return (IRR) for
the project are based on: (i) additional revenues from industrial and domestic sewerage tariffs, municipal
property tax (IPTU) and municipal property transfer tax (ITBI); (ii) savings in the cost of water treatment
and solid waste collection, health care, flood related damages, and maintenance of the Pampulha
reservoir; and (iii) licensing and park entrance fees. Estimates are calculated under two assumptions: fi)
with current industrial output and existing tariffs (assumption A); and (ii) taking into account industrial
growth and tariff increases (assumption B). The discount rate is 12.0 percent. Under assumption A, the
benefit-cost ratio is 0.57 and the IRR., 6.0 percent. Under assumption B, the B/C ratio is 0.71 and the
IRR, 8.2 percent. Tables 5 and 6 in Annex 10 detail the B/C ratios and IRRs for each project component.
Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis
3.22   Four groups of benefits are taken into account in the economic CBA: water supply, flood
control, sewerage services and recreation. For evaluating benefits from water suipply, the opportunity
cost method was used. For the other three sources of benefits, a crude version of willingness-to-pay
method was used. The details of the procedures and calculations are in the Project File. Estimates were
calculated under two assumptions:  (i) accepting the legal valuation of property as market value
(assumption A) ; and, (ii) assuming that the legal valuation is 60 percent of the market value (Assumption
B). The discount rate is 12.0 percent. Under assumption A, for the project as a whole the B/C ratio is
estimated at 1.34 and the IRR, 29.8 percent. Under assumption B, B/C ratio reaches 1.68 and the IRR,
45.2 percent. Tables 7 and 8 in Annex 10 show the B/C ratio and IRR for each project component.
H. Financial Status of the Borrower and the Beneficiaries
3.23   The Bank loan for the State of Minas Gerais of US$145.0 million equivalent accounts for 47.1
percent of the total project cost. Counterpart funds will be provided as follows: (i) State Government of
Minas Gerais US$53.0 million; (ii) Minas Gerais water company (COPASA) US$78.9 million; (iii)
Municipality of Belo Horizonte US$22.6 million, and; (iv) Municipality of Contagem US$ 8.1 million.
3.24   A review of the finances of the State of Minas Gerais and the other executing agencies reveals
that the project does not require additional financial resources beyond those needed by these institutions



- 15 -
for their ongoing investment plans. Documentation in the project files details the financial status of the
Borrower and the beneficiary agencies, and includes historical and projected financial data. COPASA,
which has the most significant financial participation in the program (US$78.9 million), will provide
counterpart funding througl. internal cash generation as follows: (a) increasing the average water and
sewerage tariff from US$0.37 per m3 to US$0.50 per m3 at the end of 1993, and by maintaining it at
that level thereafter, in dollar terms; (b) reducing the level of unaccounted for water from 36 percent to
30 percent; (c) increasing water metering from 87 percent to 92 percent of total water connections, in
both. the metropolitan Belo Horizonte area and the other municipalities served by COPASA, beginning
in 1993; (d) revaluating fixed assets under the legal requirement of 12 percent return on investment; and
(e) changing the tariff structure to reflect marginal costs of services in the different cities throughout the
State. During Loan Negotiations, COPASA agreed to carry out the Management Improvement Plan
shown in Annex 11.
3.25   COPASA's ambitious investments program  for the 1992-1997 period is US$1.2 billion,
representing an average of US$180.4 million per annum. The project's annual investments represent,
on average, US$13.1 million, or 7.2 percent of COPASA's total investment program. The allocation of
resources for investments takes into consideration the following criteria: (a) increase of internal cash
generation as a result of increased tariffs and cost savings (reflected in an improved operating ratio, from
0.85 to 0.75); (b) reasonable allocation of Caixa Economica Federal (CEF)'s funds for 1992; (c) financial
rehabilitation of the State Water and Sewerage Fund (FAE), and (d) equity investments by the state
government as part of its pluri-annual development plan.
Financial Projections for the State of Minas Gerais
3.26   Financial projections for the period 1992-1997 assume a real growth of 5 percent in fiscal
revenues and expenditures. Average annual revenues amount to US$5.5 billion. Fiscal revenues amount
to 66.5 percent of the total revenues, with a 95 percent share of sales taxes (ICMS). Federal transfers
account for 19 percent of total revenues, and 14.5 percent from credit operations. Projected State
government expenditures are as follows: 49.6 percent--state payroll and other operating expenses; 33.8
percent--interest and amortization of domestic and foreign debt; and 7.2 percent--planned investments for
the period, which represent an annual average investment of US$289 million (totalling US$1.7 billions
during the whole period). T'hese expenditures will be mainly allocated to investments in transport, urban
infrastructure, basic sanitation, and environment.  The project represents 10 percent of total state
projected investments, of which 7.5 percent is financed by the Bank and 2.5 percent by direct state
transfers. The State of Minas Gerais has a stable financial situation, with low discretionary transfers and
debt. Although project costs represent 52 percent of total revenues, they will be maintained at that level
throughout the 1992-1997 period.
Financial Projections for the Municipality of Belo Horizonte
3.27   The financial projections for the municipality of Belo Horizonte are based on the municipal master
plan, which is currently under review by the municipal legislature. Revenue projections take into
consideration the following factors: (a) fiscal reform under the new Constitution, which benefitted the
municipalities by increasing state and federal transfers of municipal participation funds and sales tax
(ICMS), as well as the incorporation of new taxes, specifically ITBI (property transfer tax), IPI export
tax and the fue! tax (liquid and gas); (b) fiscal municipal reforms, including a new schedule for
assessment of IPTU (property tax). Currently the municipality is self-financing improvements to its
cadastre and the updating of the service tax.



- 16 -
3.28    Based on an estimated real annual growth of one percent from 1992 onwards, the annual revenue
forecast for the 1992-1997 period is US$627 million. Annual fiscal revenues are estimated at US$298
million, or 48 percent of total revenues. The main municipal taxes are IPTU and ISS, accounting for 43
percent and 36 percent respectively of the total fiscal revenue.  Federal and state transfers to the
municipality are 37 percent of the total revenues, the ICMS being the most significant transfer, accounting
for US$125 million annually, or 20 percent of the total revenues. The Bank's project represents, on
average, an annual investment of US$3.8 million, which correspond to just 2 percent of the municipality's
investment program forecasted for 1992-1997. Furthermore, the financial analysis reveals that the
municipality of Belo Horizonte has the capacity to increase its debt, providing interest expenmes and
amortization do not exceed 8 percent of total revenues.
Financial Projections for the Municipality of Contagem
3.29   Financial projections for the Municipality of Contagem take into account the fiscal reforms under
the new Constitution. These projections assume an annual growth of 3.8 percent for revenues, and 5.5
percent for costs. The municipality depends heavily on state transfers (ICMS), which during 1992-1997
are estimated to average US$57 millions annually, or 68 percent of total revenues. Current liabilities
during the period will average US$66.4 million per year, equivalent to 76 percent of total revenues. The
participation of the Municipality of Contagem in the Bank project (US$28 million) is not very significant
in relationship to the municipality's budget.
I. Poverty Aspects
3.30 Table 3.2 shows an estimate of the poverty group (comprising families earning three minimum
salaries or less) who will benefit from the Project. Sewerage flood control and resettlement components
of the project will directly improve the living conditions of a substantial group of poor living in the
project area. The reallocation of families living on risk-prone river banks to specially designed housing
projects will improve the living environment of an important segment of the poor people benefitting from
the project. The creation of parks and the upgrading of areas along the rivers will provide recreation
areas for the poor, who usually do not have access to such facilities. Finally, the improved reliability
of water sources to the metropolitan area will significantly enhance water and sanitation services to the
poor.
J. The Environmental Impact
3.31   The project will improve environmental conditions in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area and
in a 40 km stretch of the das Velhas river receiving run off and sewerage discharges from the area. All
project components are designed to help upgrade existing deteriorated conditions and to create the
foundations for sustainable environmental management in the area. The project will enhance water uses
in most of the water bodies in the metropolitan area and improve the quality of life in the surrounding
areas, through flood control and proper disposal of wastes--including toxics, and by controlling land use
in hazardous areas, and providing basic sanitation services and recreational facilities.



- 17 -
Tabl 3.2
Poverty Groups Benefitting from the Project
(Hab)
Project C'omponent                          Area                    Number of
Poor
Beneficiaries
Sewerage services                     "Vargem das Flores" sub-basin                 1,700
'da Onca" sub-basin                          15,000
Macrodrainage and Interceptors        "Arrudas" sub-basin                          36,000
"da Onca" sub-basin                         45,000
Recreation/Parks                                                                  146,000
Water Supply                                                                       78,300
Resettlement                                                                        9,000
3.32   The project is designed to prevent the occurrence of potentially negative impacts associated with
the disposal of wastes in sanitary landfills, disposal of sludge from the sewage treatment plant, and
-esettlement of population. Installations for soliu waste and sludge disposal will be designed to control
percolation of leachates in the ground. In addition, safeguards to achieve environmentally acceptable
closure of existing landfills and for disposal of solid wastes are described in Annex 19. The resettlement
plans proposed by the Borrower were found to be satisfactory. Community involvement starts early in
the process; project objectives and features are discussed in private meetings with NGOs and through
public hearings and field visits with the families targeted for resettlement. The affected families are
offered four options for resettlement: (a) cash compensation (at replacement value) upon presentation of
a sales agreement for a replacement house elsewhere; (b) a house plot and construction materials to build
a new dwelling in exchange for the present house; (c) a plot and project-constructed house for which the
affected family pays 50 percent of the difference in value between the present house and the replacement
house; and (d) cash compensation (at replacement value) and free transport to a destination in another city
or town (Annex 3). Adequate resettlement a-eas near the affected favelas have been identified and
acquired, and additional lands elsewhere have been identified as backup should they be needed. The
organizational capacity for implementation of the resettlement program is impressive. The professionals
responsible include engineers from the Development Department of the Belo Horizonte Municipality
(SUDECAP) and the Department for Community Development of Contagem (SUDECOM), and social
workers, social scientists and engineers fTom a non-governmental organization, the Urbanization Agency
of Belo Horizonte (URBEL), which has more than a decade of experience in this area.  The
implementation methodology involves working with existing neighborhood organizations to carry out
information campaigns, population and property inventories, valuation of property, negotiation of
compensation, selection of appropriate resettlement options, development of new sites, mobilization and
transfer, and issuing titles. Intensive follow-up over a 6-month period by social workers and monitoring
over a five-year period during which replacement assets may not be sold are included in the resettlement
program. The proposed resettlement is an extension of ongoing policies and programs throughout the



- 18-
city directed at improving living standards and public health conditions in favelas. The Project's
Operational Manual will include a detailed schedule of the resettlement subcomponent. At negotiations
the Bank and the Borrower agreed on terms of reference for an independent evaluation of anticipated
improvements in living star.ards and public health under the project (para. 3.15). The evaluation will
include project beneficiary families as well as resettled families.
3.33   The project has been classified as "A" under O.D. 4.01. The Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) conducted by SEEBLA (consulting firm) and submitted to the Bank on April 30, 1992, was
reviewed and found satisfactory. A summary has been distributed to the Board (Annex 12); the full
report is available in the Project File. Each sub-project eligible for Bank financing shall comply with EIA
requirements. The Borrower will present to the state authorities before implementation of each subproject
evidence of compliance with EIA recommendations.
K. Inplications for Sector Policy
3.34   The project changes a single sector orientation to water pollution control, and provides for a
multi-disciplinary approach involving institutional integration within the boundaries of a water basin. The
project provides for extensive studies, equipment and other facilities to strengthen water pollution
monitoring and control in the Arrudas and Onca river basins and to provide a basis for water quality
management in the das Velhas basin. Finally, the project promotes the consideration of alternative cost
recovery instruments (Annex 10, Tables 3A and 3B, list existing and potential cost-recovery instruments)
in order to expand the financial resources available for water pollution control in Brazil. Agreement was
reached during Loan Ncgotiations on the establishment of water basin management unit and a water use
surcharge to finance its opera.ions prior to September 30, 1994.
L. Project Implementation
Principal implementation Features
3.35   The project will be implemented over a five-year period and is expected to be completed by
Nfarch 31, 1997. It includes a variety of sub-projects that have been appraised on the basis of feasibility
studies and preliminary engineering designs and found satisfactory. Final Bank approval of sub-projects
will be given during project implementation. To this effect, the Borrower will submit to the Bank
evidence of sub-project compliance with the eligibility criteria shown in Annex 19. Eligibility criteria
includes, n=-Ii1g, least-cost analysis, marginal cost pricing, and an environmental impact analysis. A
mid-term review is scheduled by March 1994 to examine progress made, assess the relevance of all
project objectives and actions and, if necessary, recommend necessary revisions. In addition, during
project implementation, two workshops will be held for purposes of orientation and explanation of Bank
procedures; the first not later than two months after loan signature and the second not latei han May 30,
1994. The project includes studies and data collection, training and technical assistance and formulation
of policies to support the establishment of a water basin management unit. The studies will be carried
out by consultants under the supervision of UGP. As most of the studies pertain to water basin operation
and management, which is critical for the achievement of project objectives, these actions are scheduled
during the first two years of project implementation with study recommendations to be discussed during
the mid-term review. Another series of studies and technical assistance relate to industrial pollution
control (Annex 4). Follow-up actions on industrial pollution control will be considered at the mid-term



- 19-
review. Annex 14 shows a schedule of project execution by quarters. Annex 18 outlines the strategic
planning for the water basin management unit, including studies and technical assistance for operation
and management of the water system.
3.36   Implementation a-ia institutional arrangements for the project will be formalized by the following
documents:(i) Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Stdte; (ii) Guarantee Agreement between the
Bank and the Federative Republic of Brazil; (iii) Subsidiary Agreements between the State and the
executing agencies; (iv) onlending agreements between the State ard executing agencies;and (v )
agreement between the State and the financial intermediary (BDMG).
3.37   Bank funds will flow from the Brazil Central Bank to BDMG, which will also receive the
eounterpart funds from the state government and the executing agencies. Counterpart funds will be
disbursed by BDMG, at the request of each executing agency.
Project Supervision
3.38   Sub-projects will be carried out by the executing agencies, assisted by consultants, under the
overall guidance and control of UGP, which will be staffed by qualified professionals and assisted by
management consultants financed under the Loan. Project implementation re.quirements and procedures,
including monitoring indicators and key project events will be detailed in an Operation Manual (Manual
de Operacoes), under preparation by UGP. These arrangements would permit Bank supervision to be
maintained at a reasonable level and focusea on the development of studies related to water basin
management, and on critical and innovative projects such as industrial sewage and solid waste disposal
and resettlement operations. Despite the above supervision arrangements, the project because of its
innovative character and complex institutional features, will require more than customary supervision by
the Bank. The supervision plan is presented in Annex 20.
Reporting and Monitoring
3.39   Progress reports, prepared in accordance with the format given in the Operational Manual, will
describe and compare past achievements with appraisal estimates; review compliance with the monitoring
indicators detailed in Annex 15, and provide a critical assessment of p,.oblems and issues arising during
project execution. The guidelines will also propose adjustments and remedial actions in case of
unsatisfactory progress. A set of physical, operational, environmental and financial monitoring indicators
will constitute the basis for project review and supervision, including the mid-term review 'jpara. 3.35).
The environmental impact of the project will be reported annually on the basis of the methodology
included in the Operational Manual. A final report analyzing the Project's key issues and containing a
retrospective assessment of the Project's implementation from the Borrower's own perspective will be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the Loan's closing date.
Procurement
3.40   Civil works represent about 70 percent of the total project cost; equipment and materials, about
23 percent; and consultant services, including studies, technical assistance, completion of engineering
designs, supervision and management, about 7 percent. All contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to co3t the equivalent of US$250,000 or less, and for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$5.0 million or less, will be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign firms will be allowed to participate in the bidding. Above



- 20 -
these limits, procurement will be carriew: out on the basis of ICB, under Pank guidelines. Project costs
by procurement method are presented in Table 3.3. Annex 16 details a a seliminary packaging of bids
for procurement purposes. During Loan negotiations, it was agreed that standard bidding documents and
contracts for civil works and services under ICB and LCB approved recently for Loans 3504-BR a: d
3505-BR will be used for procurement under the Loan. Engineering and project supervision services and
technical studies will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants (August
1981). Proposals will be invited from foreign and local consultants. A draft letter of invitation and
contract for consultant services is also under preparation (para. 3.15, [vii]). With the exception of prior
review of terms of reference, Bank ex-post review will be used for hiring consultants for engineering
design and supervision for assignments amounting to less than US$100,000 equivalent, and in the
agg;egate value not to exceed the equivalent of US$1.0 million.
Table 33
Proiecc Cost by Procurement Method
(USS million)
Project Elements                                     ICB         LCB       Other      Total
Civil Works                                      $ 235.6       $ 29.9                $265.5
(98.9)      (12.6)                (111.5)
Equipment                                         $ 15.6       $ 8.0          -.     $ 23.6
(12.9)       ( 3.4)               ( 16.3)
Engineering and Tecinical Assistance                 --           --      $ 18.5     $ 18.5
-_-                     (17.2) (27.2)
Total                                             $251.2       $ 37.9     $ 18.5    $307.6
(111.8)      (16.0)    (17.2)    (145.0)
()Bank Loan.
3.41   All procurement under ICB (about 86% of total project cost) will be subject to prior Bank review
of advertising, bidding documents, bid evalL 4tion, and contract awards. In the interest of expediting
project execution, all procurement under LCB will be subject to ex-post review by sampling. However,
in order to ensure that ade4uate procurement procedures are followed, the Bank will review and approve,
irrespective of the amount, the first two contracts under LCB for goods and for works. If the Bank
determines in the review by sampling that procurement is inconsistent with agreed procedures, the Bank
would revise the contract review procedures, and no expenditures for ;uch items will be financed out of
the proceeds of the loan. Furthermore, the Bank may cancel an equivalent amount of the loan. In
addition, the Bank reserves the right to review the following two LCB contracts.
Disbursements
3.42   The loan would be disbursed as follows: (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported
equipment and materials; (ii) 42 percent of expenditures for civil works, equipment and materials; (iii)



- 21 -
100 percent of expenditures for services of foreign consultants; and (iv) 85 percent of expenditures for
services of consultants with offices in Brazil. In order to expedite project execution, a Special Account
in the amount of US$10 million will be established in a commercial bank to cover project expenditures.
Disbursements against civil works contracts below the equivalent of US$5.0 million and for goods
equivalent to US$250,000 will be made under the Statements of Expenditure procedure prepared and
certified by UGP. Detail documentation will be retained by UGP for inspection during supervision
missions and for audit by external auditors. No force account works are envisaged. The estimated
schedule of disbursement (Annex 17) provides for Loan disbursement in six years. The closing date will
be September 30, 1997.
Advanco-1 Contracting and Retroactive Flnancing
3.43   The Loan will finance works to be carried out during the period 1992-1997.  Work on
resettlement and expenditures for consultants services will need to start in 1992 to have the
implementation of selected project tasks completed by mid-1994. In view of these needs, the project
would provide for the following: (i) advanced contracting as of July 1, 1992, amounting to US$20
millIon, and (ii) retroactive financing as of the same date, amounting to US$5 million. Advance
contracting and retroactive financing will be subject to the following conditions: (i) UGP's fully staffed
and a Letter of Intent signed between UGP and the executing agency; and (ii) Bank procurement
guidelines used for all applicable contracts.
Audit
3.44   All project accounts and statement of expenses submitted by UGP and the Special Account shall
be audited by external auditors. In addition, all executing agencies will submit audited financial
statements to UGP to be forwarded to the Bank. Audit reports for the previous year will be submitted
tc the Bank every year by June 30 at the latest.
Management of the Water basin
3.45   Efficient management of the water basin will center around two elements: 'i) a set of policy
instruments to permit environmentally sustainable development in the area; and (ii) an autonomous and
modern water management unit to implement the policies. For the preparation of the above management
system, the project includes extensive data gathering and preparation of sectoral plans for the area, which
would be followed by the design of alternative integrated schemes for the environmental regulation and
control of the area. During the project's mid-term review, scheduled for May, 1994, agreement would
be sought oni the selected alternative for establishing the water basin authority and the required changes
to environmental policies and the implementation schedule of required actions. When designing and
establishing the project management unit, special attention would be given to the following items: legal
arrangements to ensure the needed autonomy and enforcement powers, provision for the generation of
adequate resources and use of modern management systems, and agreement on a sector strategy
emphasizing: (i) industrial pollution control (Annex 4); (ii) environmental sanitation; and, (iii) land use
management. Annex 13 shows key events for the establishment of the das Velhas river water basin
authority.
3.46   The State Environmnental Agency (FEAM) will exercise an important role during project
implementation until the water basin authority is created. A program fo. strengthening FEAM--financed
by the Loan--has already started. A plan for effective monitoring of the industrial pollution is being



- 22 -
prepared by FEAM assisted by specialized consultants (para. 3.15) Another group of consultants will
assis. FEAM in preparing studies for the upper das Ve:has river pollution control and monitoring.
Key Implementation Actions
3.47   In order to minimize project implementation  telays, the following agreements on key
implementation actions were reached during Loan Negotiations: (i) formalization of all Loan/Project
documents before effectiveness (para. 3.36); (ii) the staffing of UGP and formalization of Letters of Intent
before committing retroactive funding (para. 3.34); (iii) the eligibility criteria for subprojects (para. 3.35
and Annex 19); (iv) terms of reference for studies for the establishment of a water basin management unit
(para. 3.34); (v) the approval of a water use surcharge (para. 3.34); (vi) monitoring indicators (para. 3.34
and Annex 15); (vii) COPASA's financial plan (Annex 11); (viii) a plan of action for industrial pollution
control and strengthening of FEAM (para. 3.10 and Annex 4); and (ix) timely submission of satisfactory
audits (para. 3.44), and progress reports and PCR (para. 3.39). In addition, agreement was reached on
the decision that no disbursement for the two sewage treat,nent plans will be made until completion of
the industrial pollution control studies. Fiially, the approval of subprojects related to the disposal of
hazardous solid wastes will be subject to the provision of satisfactory safeguards.
M. Project Risks
3.48   The main project risk is associated with the project's innovative character and the required
institutional integration at the state and municipal levels. This risk was carefully assessed early on in
project preparation and the Loncerned project institutions decided to create UGP at the state level in
BD' ., for overall project supervision and coordination with the executing agencies. The executing
agencies have highly qualified staff widi experience in implementing Bank-funded projects.
3.49   Resettlement represents another risk beset by many social and political hazards. Advanced
preparation of detailed plans by the two municipalities for the first two years of project execution, will
help minimize these risks.
3.50   Finally, there is a risk in introducing modern policy instruments for water pollution control in
Brazil. Though the need for these policy changes is broadly recognized at the technical level, their
imp!ementation might encounter political difficulties. Even if implementation of needed reforms is
delayed, the project will be instrumental in helping Brazilian authorities in developing appropriate
technologies for overcoming widespread water pollution problems.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1    During Loan Negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)    final designs representing in aggregate value 20 percent of project costs (para. 3.15(i);
(b)    terms of reference for the UGP (para. 3. 15(ii));
(c)    the list of coordinators for each executing agency (para. 3.15(iii));



- 23 -
(d)    terms of reference for studies to be carried out under the project (para. 3. 15(iv));
(e)    terms of reference for management consultants (para. 3.15(v));
(f)    final draft documents for project institutional agreements (para. 3. 15(vi));
(g)    final draft standard documents and standard letter of invitation for consultants (para.
3.15(vii));
(h)    the Operational Manual (para. 3.15(viii));
(i)    a plan for the institutional strengthening of FEAM  (para. 3.15(ix));
()     final designs for resettlement (para. 3.15(x));
(k)    terms of reference for a study to evaluate expected improvements in living standards
(para. 3.15(xi);
(I)    evidence of completion of legal actions for expropriations (para. 3.15(xii)); and
(m)    timely funding for the required land expropriations and housing projects (para.
3.15(xiii)).
(n)    CCPASA's financial plan (para. 3.24).
4.2    In addition, the Bank reached agreement with the Borrower on the following:
(a)    the establishment of a water basin unit (para. 3.34);
(b)    the establishment of a water use surcharge (para. 3.34);
(c)    mid-term review and workshops (para. 3.35);
(d)    the eligibility criteria for subprojects (para. 3.47(iii));
(e)    monitoring indicators shown in Annex 15 (para. 3.47(vi));
(f)    the timely submission of satisfactory audit reports, progress reports and Project
Completion Report (para. 3.47(viii)).
4.3    Prior to Loan Effectiveness, the Borrower should:
(a)    have signed the contract with consultants for the preparation of the industrial pollution
contro! plan (para. 3.15); and
(b)    have signed all subsidiary loan agreements (para. 3.47(i).



- 24 -
4.4    Prior to incurring retroactive expenses the Borrower should:
(a)    fully staff UGP (para. 3.49(ii)); and
(b)    ensure that a letter of intent has been signed between UGP nd the concerned executinrg
agency (para. 3.43(i)).
4.5    Prior to disbursement of Loan funds to an individual subproject the Borrower should submit
evidence to the Bank of the subproject's compliance with the eligibility criteria (para. 3.35).
4.6    Prior to disbursement of Loan funds to subprojects for the construction of the Arrudas and Da
Onca sewage treatment plants, the Borrower should complete an industrial pollution control plan (para.
3.47).
4.7    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$145
million equivalent to the State of Minas Gerais. The Loan is to be repaid over a period of 15 years,
including a five-year grace period, at the Banks standard variable rate. Advanced contracting for up to
US$20 million and retreactive financing for up to US$5 million for expenditures incurred after July 1,
1992, is recommended (para. 3.43).



MINAS GERAIS - WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ARRUDAS AND ONCA INATER BASINS R THE
BELO HORIZONTE METRO'OLITAN AREA
Bank Loam to Brail for Watbr Supply and Sewage
WM  ]LOM  NO.AMOUNT  BORROWER                                   PURPOSE                         Simils - of W.111011                  COoM
(USe Wit                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cesannab. I Olebor.
1971    757-BR         22.0  City Watr Co. Sao Pauo water disribution and storage.               100%      100%   Proed Peromance Audit Report (PPR) dated 04/04/80.
1971    75B-BR         12.0  City Water Co. Sao Paulo sewage colection and disposal.             100%      100%   Idem. Loan wrount reduced1om US$15.0 million.
1974    100P-BR        36.0      BNH       Watwr stply and sewerge inthe stad  of Mint  Gerai.   100%      100%   Projed Pesutrmance Audit Report dated 06/30/83.
1976    1309-BR        40.01     BNH       Wa trupply and s    ge in the &at of Mint Gerai.      100%      100%   ProectComplton Report (PCR) dated 04/22/85.
1978    1525-BR        52.51     BNH       Sewage colecton  disposaI in melropolitan Sao Paulo.  100%      100%   US$57.5 million canceled 1/85. PCR dded 11/18/87.
1079    16#1-BR       100.0      BNH       Watw supply and    age in the stae di Blis. Crma.     100%      100%   Project Completion Report dded 02/27/87.
and Pwnambuco.
1980    1823-BR       130.0      BNH       Wate supply and swage in the state d Prna.            100%      100%   Projec Peromance Audi Report datd 01/14188.
Soat Catrina ana Rio Orand  do Sul.
1060   180-BR        139.01    BNH        Third Mia Geras Water supply and sewage.              100%      100%   Proed Complon Report daed 02/231n0.
1081    1970-BR       180.0      BNH       Muli-state w_at supply & sewage project h ihe        100%      100%   Project Conpltion Report dated 07/27/80.
sae of Amaon, Goim, Mato  rosso do Sul, Para.
Paraba, and the Federal Didtrict.
1083    2249-BR       302.3      BNH       Watr supply and sewage sector project.                100%     100%   Project _sactory complited in 04/89.
PCR unde prepealon.
1085    2532-BR        t8.3. Govt. of Brazl Technic    d assitan to develop natonl riwal wete    100%     100%   Projectoompleled i .Jisuwy, 1I0. Unuededunds
and sanitation poic, nd a pilot rural sanion                             nounting to USS5.22 mlon canceled. PCFP unde
project in one stat.                                                   prpeatln.
1987    2831 -BR       50.0  Govt. of Btrazl  Second Indusibl Poluion Conbrl for Sao Pauti stat.  40%      30%    Under Implmentabn.
108    20#3-BR         80.0      CEF       Watr Sector Project for munidip.1_s and               8S%       20%   lmplemeuion d Low-Incomm component
low-income ee                                                          (US$50 mUlon) is just begInning.
1096    3102-BR       280.0    SABESP    Watr Supply and Sewage Sector Proet hi Sao Paulo.       40%       13%    Loan became deti  on 07/00.
1002    3442-BR       250.0  Govt. of Bral  Inditiuonal strengthening do the wate supply & sewage  0%      0%    Not yet signed.
sectr. Speclik invedmens in the stats of Sar-l
Catrina, Mao Groso aond Bahia.
1992    3480-BR        50.0    BNDES       Industisl Pollution Control d ak and wat for vrioLn stades.  0%  0%    Not yet signed.
1992    3504 -BR      110.0 St. of Sao Paulo WaterQsulty and Pollution Conrol.                    0%       0%    Not yet sigred.
1002    3505-BR       117.0  St. d Prana   Wdar Qualy end PolLution Conlrol                       0%       0%    NOt yet signed.
1092    3503-BR         9.0  Govt. of Bral  Watw QuLand Potonl dol                                0%       0%    Notytaigned. 



- 26 -
ANN3X 2
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER POLLUTION AND QUALITY CONTROL PROJECT
Project Description
1.    The Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project has been designed to be executed
trough six main components:
(i)   flood control and urban drainage;
(ii)   municipal and industrial sewerage collection and disposal;
(iii)   municipal and industrial solid wastes collection and disposal;
(iv)   environmental protection and urban land use;
(v)   water basin management; and
(vi)   Project management.
2.    The flood control and urban drainage project component includes:
(i)   earthwork, construction of a channel, drains and paved roads in a extension of 6.9 km
along the A.rudas river-Part 2 in the municipality of Belo Horizonte. Extends from the
existing channel ('via urbana Leste-Oeste") to the Ferrugem creek;
(ii)   same as above in a extension of 3.6 km along the Sarandi Creek in the municipality of
Contagem. Extends between existing channel in Belo Horizonte and channel under
construction by the Contagem municipality;
(iii)   same as above in a extension of 3.4 km along the Ferrugem Creek in the municipality
of Contagem. Extends between the discharge of the creek in the Arrudas river and the
ongoing works in 'Agua Branca"; and
(iv)   same as above in a extension of 2.7 km along the da Onca river in the municipality of
Belo Horizonte. Extends between the 'Av. Cristiano Machado' and the "Rua Pintor
Renato Lima".
3.    T'ne sewerage component includes:
(i)   construction of 6 km of sewer interceptors along the 'Agua Branca" and "Ferrugem"
creeks. Connect with interceptors along the Arrudas river;



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
(ii)   same as above in a extension of 13.7 km along the Arrudas river. Extend from the
discharge of interceptor ot (1) above with existing interceptor along the Arrudas river
in the "via Leste-Oeste";
(iii)   sewage pumping from the 'Vargem das Flores" water basin to the Arrudas water basin,
in the municipality of Contagem, including the construction of 59.4 km of sewers,
2,500 sewerage connections, 12.7 km of interceptors, 3 booster pumping stations, 3.6
km of pressure mains and 2.6 km of transmission pipes;
(iv)    construction of a 4.5 m3/s sewage treat. aent plant in Arrudas, consisting of primary
treatment, including sludge conditioning and disposal;
(v)    construction of 26 km of sewer interceptors along the Sarandi river, in Contagem.
These interceptors will extent from the springs to the existing interceptor in Belo
Horizonte;
(vi)   construction of 149 km of sewers and 11,200 sewerage connections in the da Onca
water basin;
(vii)   construction of 13 km of sewer interceptors along the da Onca river, and extending
from the Pampulha reservoir to the sewage trep+ment plant; and
(viii)   construction of a 3.9 m3/s sewage treatment plant in da Onca, consisting of primary
treatment, including sludge conditioning and disposal.
4.     The solid wastes component includes:
(i)   studies and improvements to the Belo Horizonte's solid wastes, including the
rehabilitation of a composting plant and of the biogas production installations, and
purchase of collection equipment system;
(ii)   studies and improvements to the Contagem's solid wastes collection, including the
purchase of collection equipment; and
(iii)   construction of a sanitary landfill at Perobas, to attend the city and industrial area of
Contagem and the Sarandi water basin.
5.     The environmental protection component includes:
(i)   *he urbanization of the Arrudas Valley including .he installation of a park and other
recreational areas and arborization;
(ii)   the construction of an ecologic park in an island in the Pampulha reservoir, including
the infrastructure needed to protect the reservoir; and
(iii)   arborization, recuperation of degraded areas, erosion control, control of the use of
agrochemicals, environmental education and monitoring in the Vargem das Flores water



- 28 -
ANNEX2
Page 3 of 3
basin. lTis water basin is an important water source for the metropolitan Belo
Horizonte.
6.     The water basin management component includes:
(i)   studies to determine the exiting environmental degradation in the das Velhas river,
including the identification and cadastre of all pollution sources, the identification of
alternatives for its protection, and the establishment of an adequate monitoring and
control system;
(ii)   environmental education program in the project area;
(iii)   characterization and inventory of all industries in the area, evaluation and design of a
industrial water pollution plan including the necessary engineering for off-site treatment
and the recommendations to the State on the actions needed for promoting in-house pre-
treatment and connect industries to the sewerage system;
(iv)   institutional strengthening of FEAM;
(v)   studies, recommendations and actions conducive to the establishment of the das Velhas
river authority;
(vi)   training program for the of executing agencies; wand,
(vii)   purchase of laboratory and other equipment.
7.     The Project management component includes:
(i)   planning and coordination;
(ii)   overall supervision of the engineering and finances of the program;
(iii)   procurement; and
(iv)   supervision of studies and sensitive areas of the program, including resettlement.



- 29 -                                 ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 9
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER POLLUTION AND QUALITY CONTROL PROJECT
Resettlement
A. Objective of the Resettlement
1.    The execution of drainage works included in the Project require the use of areas in the city which
are presently occupied by shantytowns (villas and favelas). Resettlement results from the canalization
of the Arrudas and Da Onza creeks in the municipality of Belo Horizonte and of the Ferrugem creek in
the municipality of Contagem. These canalization projects are under the responsibility of the respective
municipalities.
B. Institutional Arrangements
2.    Resettlement in Belo Horizonte will be executed by the Companhia Urbanizadora de Belo
Horizonte (URBEL), which has had experience in similar endeavors. URBEL will be assisted by the
Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento da Capital (SUDECAP) on engineering and expropriation matters
and by the Procuradoria Geral do Municipio (PGM) on the processing of expropriations and
compensations to the dwellers of the affected areas.
3.    Resettlement in Contagem will be executed by the Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento
Comunitario (SUDECOM), which is also rather experienced. SUDECOM will bv assisted by the
Companhia Municipal de Habitacao de Contagem (CONTERRA) on the construction of the required
housing projects, by the Procuradoria Municipal on expropriations and by the Companhia Urbanizadora
de Contagem (CUCO) on engineering and infrastructure.
4.    Resettlement in the two municipalities will be coordinated by the project unit (UPG) in the Banco
de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (BDMG). To this end, UGP personnel will include a sociologist.
Tables 1 and 2 to this annex list responsibilities of each institution for each resettlement task.
C. Target Population
5.    Total population to be resettled is estimated at 9,055, which are presently living in 1,622
dwellings. The affected people are located as follows: (i) 7,011 are living in 1,252 dwellings in Belo
Horizonte, of which 4,183 are in the Arrudas creek protection area and 2,828 in that of the da Onza
creek; and (ii) 2,044 are living in 370 dwellings in Contagem, of which 946 are in Arrudas and 1.098
in the Sarandi creek.



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
D. Scope
6.     Resettlement includes the following tasks: (i) socio-econowic survey; (ii) inventory of affected
properties; (iii) expropriations for housing projects and public areas; (iv) preparation of engineering
designs; (v) urban improvements, including infrastructure; (vi) construction of housing projects; (vii)
moving; (vii) assistance to the communities; and (ix) evaluation. The surplus of vacated areas will be
prepared for recreation.
E. Characteristics of the Shantytowns Involved
7.     The project will cover 19 shantytowns (Table 3) located in risky areas frequently subject to
flooding, lacking basic infrastructure and organized as follows: (i) 94 percent of the houses constitute
residence; (ii) 66 percent are built from masonry; (iii) the average number of apartments in a house
("comodo") is four; (iv) the average number of inhabitants per house is 5.6; (v) 35 percent are supplied
with electric energy and another 45 percent are clandestinely connected; (vi) family income is on average
3 minimum salaries; (vii) most inhabitants completed primary education; and (viii) families are composed
on average of 1.5 persons.
F. Justification
8.     The reasons for resettlement are: (i) the areas to be vacated pose a high risk for habitation; (ii)
the areas are not suitable for infrastructure; (iii) the areas are needed for project works, which will benefit
most of the city's population; and (iv) the resettled population will upgrade its quality of living.
G. Description
9.     Resettlement will includv the following: (i) program coordination by UGP; (ii) assistance to the
community with participation of NGOs; (iii) socio-economic survey data; (iv) inventory of properties;
(v) purchase and expropriation of land; (vi) preparation of final engineering designs; (vii) urbanization
and infrastructure; (viii) housing projects; (ix) indemnities and resettlement; and (x) assistance to the
resettled population for 6 months.
H. Appraisal of Properties and Indemnities
10.    7he appraisal of properties will be made based on construction prices from the Minas Gerais
construction association (Sindicato das Industrias da Construcao) and SUDECOM and CUCO estimates.
the values obtained will be used as a starting point for the negotiations with the population to be resettled.
The negotiations will evolve separately: (i) for those settlers who would prefer to receive cash, as a
normal real estate transaction; (ii) for those setters who would prefer to be resettled, as follows: (a) a
barter agreement in cases in which the appraisal of the properties to be vacated and properties received
are similar; (b) when the property received is appraised at a higher value, the family to be resettled will



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
receive a grant equivalent to 50 percent of the difference in value and long-term financing under the
Programa Estadual de Habitacao (PROHAB) terms to make up the difference in value; and (c) when the
house to be vacated is of higher value, the familv will receive cash or material equivalent to the
difference in value for expansion or improvement of the property received; (iii) in cases in which the
family cannot afford even the payment of the 50 percent of the difference mentioned above, further
justification will be built for bigger subsidies; and (iv) in all cases, after agreement, property titles will
be finalized and transferred to the new settlers.
I. Areas for Resettlement
11.   In Contagem, resettlers will be moved to "Piraquara," a rather distant place from the present
residences, and where a housing project for municipal staff is being built. The negative impact caused
by this distant removal will be mitigated as follows: (i) provision of good transportation; (ii) availability
of urban services close to the housing project; and (iii) good topography of the lot.
12.   In Belo Horizonte, the receiving land is close to the present residences. In the Arrudas creek
areas, some 425 families will be accommodated in settlements in surplus areas of the land expropriated
for construction of the project. The rest will be accommodated in the nearby 'Palmeiras' housing
project. In the Da Onza creek area, families will be resettled in the "Ricardo de Abreu" housing project,
which has good services. Table 4 shows the resettlement areas.
13.   In Contagem, the municipality owns the land receiving resettlers. in Belo Horizonte, the process
of expropriation of the required area has started. Both municipalities have budgeted funds to start
expropriationS .
J. Characteristics of the Housing Units
14.   In Contagem, 27 or 36 e2 houses will be built in 160 private lots. Houses will consist of 2
bedrooms, a living room, kitchen and bathroom. In Belo Horizonte, all houses will have 27 m2
construction, will a similar plan to that in Contagem, but with only one bedroom.
K. Costs and Implementation Schedule
15.   Table 4 sunmmarizes costs and Table 5 shows the resettlement schedule.
L. Environmental Impact
16.   In the short term, resettlement will represent hardship for the families involved who are
committed to moving to new neighborhoods, sometimes far from the workplace. In the medium and long
term, this negative impact can be mitigated and even transformed into a positive situation, if careful
planning and implementation of the resettlement takes place. The project provides for well-designed



- 32 -
ANEX 3
Page 4 of 9
community involvement, since the process begins with the discussion of available alternatives for
resettlement. The project is also designed to respect individual preferences, giving customized legal
assistance to the families. Finally, there will be a substantial involvement of concerned NGOs.
M. Monitoring and Evaluation
17.   The project SAR contains monitoring indicators which will be discussed in the semi-annual
reports.
N. References
18.    Additional information on resettlement is included in the Project File.



-  33 -                    ANNEX 3
Table 1               Page 5 o f 9
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Institutional Matrix, Involuntary Resettloment
Municipality of Belo Horizonte
- GENERAL COORDINATION
.I Interagency Meetings                  x              x              x
1.2 Project Monitoring                   x              x                              x
1.3 Evaluation                           x              x       |                      x
2 - PUBLIC HEARINGS
2.1 Population Education                                x       |                      x
2.2 Project Presentation                 x              x                              x
2.3 Socia. Assistance                                   x                              x
2.4 Legal Assistance                                    x                              x
3 - SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND FIXED ASSETS STUDIES
3.1 Mapping                                             x
3.2 Cadastre                                            x
3.3 Data Base                                           x
3.4 Fixed Assets Valuation                              x
4 - LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING
4.1 Acquisition and / or                 x              x              x
Expropriation of Areas
4.2 Executive Projects
4.3 Land Development                     x              x
4.4 Housing                                             x
5 - RESETTLEMENT
5.1 Compensation                         x              x                              x
5.2 Removal                                             x                              x
5.3 Social Assi3tance                                   x                               x



Table 2
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Institutional Matrix. Involuntary Resettlement
Municipality of Contagem
PHASE I                         | PROCURADORIA   SECREI ARYj                               T
ACTIVITY            | SUDECOM             ? PMC        OF FINANCE  CUCO  CONTERRA| COMMUNTy
PREPARATION
Cordination                  |_E______                                                                              -
Planning                     |      E                I                 P            P           P              I
STUDIES
Location of Works            I                                                 |_E_|_|___I
Physical Cadastre l Socio Econ.     E      |                                   I               _____I_
IMPLEMENTATION                 _
Area Selection                                                                                  E
Projects                            1                                                     _     E              I
Infrastructure                 ___           _                         I            P           E              I
Construction of Dwellings          II                                  I                        E              I
OPERATION
Negotiation              _    _                               _        P              
Financing                           P_                                 I       |_E                     _  _ P  
Family Resettlement                 E                     _    _                    P           P              P j _
FOLLOW - UP                                                                 .____
Monitonng                           E                                                      __        _Po
Provision of Financial Resources    P             _
Notes:
E....Ezecutwe, I..Infonned, P.-..Participate



Table 3
BRAZIL
WATER QIJALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
A RRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
'Favelas' of Belo Horizonte and Contagem
Social and Economic Impact Matrix
BASINI                                                  AREA  -o-uLATio-i No. OP                              SUB -PROJECT                        sooo - BCONOYIC
WBEDAN3  I FAVELAS  bMUNICIPALIXY  (M2)                                            I DWELLINGS                  OP IJ'LUENCB                _              IMPACT
RIBEIRAO ARRUDAS
Dowe  Strom        Coeleiheiro Rocha      S. Horizonte        35,722           2.365            437 E - 3 Sewrage Testment Statio. ArrLdaS
Esplanads          Bt Horizon'e        43,807           3,780            489 R - I Solid Wastes Rehabilitation Prog. PBH    * Iceases Employmntat
Allo Vera Cruz       B. Hoirizonte       243.000           9,430           2.654 M - 1 Urbaa Improvements - Arrtdas PBH
____________   ____ _______  ________ _  _ _______  I  __________   _   A   -2   Environmental  Tinning  Prog. -  PBH  I
Upstream              Sport Clube         B. Horizonte        55375            1800             321 D- I Regulari  Urbafiz Arfudas - Phase 11       Improves urban Transport
Sao jam           B. Hoirizont k      10139             3500             625 R -1 Solid Wastes Rehabilitation Prog.PBH
Vista Alege         0. Horizonte       339.643          11210            2.001 M-1 Urban Improvements - Arrudas PBH
Imbaubasi          B. Horizonte        35240            1.520            271 A - 2 Environmental Traning Prog. - PBH                                        C4
GOstalas        1B Horizonte -        17,633            8.090           1.442                                             * Improves Healh                  u'
Ferrugam                 PTO               Coatagen           14,315             524             III D - 3 Regulariz. /Urbai Arrudas - Phase 11
R -2 Solid Wstes Rehab. Pogram PMC
R-3 Oround Wastes Dtpouition Prog. Perobs
A -2 Enviental TAtiS Prog. - PBH            * Accsa to Dee  Hoaing
________I  I     I_           _______                         IA -3 ldustrial Activity Control
RIBEIRAO DA ONCA
Sarandi         |       Betriz             Contagem          121.040           5272             941 D - 3 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Arrada - Phe I  |
Jardim Marrocos        Contagein          87,740           3.822             683 E -2 Sewerage l-tereepton Sarandi              conditios Tbroug  Restle..
I                                       j                           I               11l  - 2 Solid Wastes Rebab. Porgrum PMC
[   §        l                  l          l               l               | ]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 3 Ecological Park Pamp Ibs    
Pampuiha         ____________   -                                                                    A-2 Eoviromenal TnninS Prog. - PBH             Higeer IstregSain/ Artde ti
I   I _      I                  L          I               I               | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A - 3 Icdmtrial Activily Control  |od City' Periferic Areasi
mpa-lls         | S.Tomas/S.Bemardo | B. HoFionte   | 395445j                 12,000|          2143 D -4 ReguladL/UrbzI niz Oocs
Ones                  10. d eio a         B. Horizonte       139.971           5,739           1.025 E - 5 Sewerage Connection A Discharge Oncs |
Suzaa            B. Horizonte         53.593            874             156 E - 6 Sewerage Interceplon Onca             | Valuation of Pcriferic Urbanize Fb
Boa Unino      |  B. Horizonte        115.9U4           3.720             664 E - 7 Sewerage Teatment Station Onca           Areas                        |
Esplanads          B. Horizonte        55.301            993              98 R - I Solid Wastes Rehabilitation Prog. PBH
Tribn            B. Horizonte       229.752            550              87 A - 2 Environmental Traning Prog. - PBH
Ribeu. de Abreu       B. Horizonte         16.583            300              54
r   TOTAL    |             19          |                    2,336,9991         79.2661         14,876



Table 4
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECr IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS INTHE
BE-LO IHORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Resettlement Planning and Cost Estimates
SUB       T) BE            RES STTIEMENT                       COST (US$ 1000)
CODE  PROJECTI RESETILED AREAS    # OF FAMILIES LAND  NFRA IHOUSN|  TOTAL |
|Dl     |Arrudas             747fPalneira                   369   1,153|    28|        1,439    2,620
L___  Parte I                 Am__ _|_idas  _            378   1,1891     28 |      1,474    2,691
D2A      Sarandi             196 Piraqura     r:             96              i          9809     9956 
___Pairtel   j_     _          __        _9_____0____                 ___    __
[j |FenugemJ1         74jPiraquara       _ _         7         1                         3761
LA       Agua 7100 _Piraquara                                100  _            8         500      508
___   __        __       -     ____       . __                  __ 1                    r oq
D4       Onca                505 Ribeirao de                            I
L_     _ _              |_Abreu      15_    1,788'                   38'      1,970 __0:
TOTAL        __        ,__         _        __        1,622  4,130     123       6,73310,986           Co



- 37 -
ANN     3
Page 9 of 9
Table S
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Resettlement Schedule
SUB                                                     YEARS
CODE  PROJECT   ACTIAvnT   192                       1=993__          4    - 15 s              1996
-1   A
1       Arr Aas             B
Trecho I            C
I     __~~~~ *$******                        --***** I******J******
A
1       Arrudas             B
Trecho 2            C
_ _ _= __   _ _ _         D.. _ _ _      _ _ _   I _  _ _      _ _    _  _   _ _    _  _ _   _  _  _  _
A                                   I-
I       Arrudas             B                                    I
Trecho 3            C
A
_ _ ~~~~D                            __*P*,.t** ***$***e** ************....  *******e**$**
1       Arrudas             B
Trecho 4            C
D                   ......... ************  ***eN********* ******e*$***
A
1       Arrudas             B
Trecho 5            C
I I ~~~~D                                                             ********* I***  **** I
A .
4     1 aca                  B                      *** ** ***
C                            *** **   ******
D                      ************ ***********************
A                                                                       _
2       Sarandi              B
3       Ferrugem            C                   *
l  ..........................D  |*********** 1ett***************1****el  :
tes:
..Socio - Econ. & Physical Cadastre               C.... Resettlement
..House Construction                               D.... Social Assistance



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Industrial Pollution
A. Background
1.    The state of Minas Gerais is one of the most industrialized states of Brazil, second only to Sao
Paulo in the number of industrial establishments and with similar levels of industrial pollution as Rio de
Janeiro. There are about 13,000 industrial pollution sources in the state, of which 1,500 have been
considered priority for clean-up. Belo Horizonte Metropolitan area had 3,321 listed industries in 1982,
concentrated mainly in Belo Horizonte, Contagem and Belim; these represent near 91 % of the industries
and 83 % of the employed labor in the region.
2.    Up to 1930's the industry was mainly composed of textiles and food processing plants. Since
then, the industries corresponding to the metallurgical sector increased in number and size. Nowadays
the metallurgical sector in one of the leading industries of Minas Gerais, with very large factories and
numerous small firms which work mainly on metal electroplating and processing. According to a 1986
census, 98 % of the total suspended solids discharged cy the industry in the surface waters were
contributed by the metallirgical sector. On the other hand, food processing is responsible for 63% of the
BOD load discharged in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan area. Important acid discharges and heavv loads
of metals are also reported' to take place from these factories, where treatment of effluent is normally
non-existent.
B. Water Quality Management at the Federal and State Level
3.    The Federal actions in relation to water quality management are predominantly restricted to the
issue of norms and quality criteria, as a way to implement the National Policy for the Environment. The
Secretary of the Environment oversees environmental concern at the federal level and is responsible for
policy decisions, while the Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources
(IBAMA) acts as the executing agency. No concrete actions are actually carried out by Federal Agencies
in the metropolitan area of Belo Horizonte.
4.     The institutions which actively carry out duties of water quality planning and control in the State
of Minas Gerais are the State Environmental Foandation (Fundaqao Estadual do Meio Ambiente, FEAM),
which is in charge of pollution control and discharges, and the State Council for the Environment
(Conselho Estadual do Medio Ambiente, COPAM), which is responsible for the implementation of the
Acid dischargrs have eriously darmaged the aewer system and many large mnining nd rmetallu rgical factories dispoae of their effluent
direcdy into the Arrudas river with no treatment.



- 39 -
ANNEX4
Page 2 of 6
National Policy for the Environment. FEAM includes as part of its duties the support of municipalities
in the setting up of local systems for the protection of the environment.
5.     Brazil water quality laws relay mainly on ambient and effluent standards and zoning for pollution
control. Policy guidance and basic minimum norms are set by the federal government, normally adapted
from U.S. standards.
6.     The standards adopted across states tend to be uniform and do not deviate much from federal
standards. Only the states of Rio and Sao Paulo have attempted to adjust fixed limits to reflect the
economic cost of pollution. Minas Gerais has adopted the federal standards directly.
7.     Federal law, as adopted by Minas Gerais, defines five classes of water based on their main use.
Quality objectives and, to some extent, emission limits are set acco-dingly. For every specific water class
the Law authorizes or prohibits certain discharges. It also provides a more general limitation by
prohibiting any discharge that will result in the change of the classification of a water body. Public
enterprises in charge of sewage treatment are not required to achieve any preestablished level of reduction
in the pollution load they discharge.
8.     Licensing is required for all new investments and projects that could possibly cause environmnental
damage. This includes industries, housing developments and main infrastructure. Environmental impact
assessments (RIMA) are mandatory for these projects since 1985 and are used by the states to impose a
combination of technological and emission standards, through the licensing procedure.
9.     The implementation of these pollution control instruments in Minas Gerais is supposed to be done
by the state agencies FEAM and COPAM, through their monitoring, control and licensing activities.
10.    FEAM has no laboratory of its own and suffers from understaffing, with only 106 employees.
It finds it difficult to cover the entire state and resources are insufficient to conduct proper inspections
on a regular basis. For the monitoring of water quality, FEAM uses the laboratories and technical
assistance of private and public institutions, mainly the Technical Foundation of Minas Gerais (Fundaqao
Centro Tecnoldgico de Minas Gerais, CETEC). FEAM is also in charge of the inventory of pollution
discharges and the licensing of new industries, task which is carried out without full coverage due to the
lack of resources.
11.    Although some first steps have been initiated more than ten years ago with the classification of
the rivers in the das Velhas river basin (1977) and the environmental study of this river basin for its
recovery and protection (1978), no formal water quality management plan exists today.
12.    Water quality monitoring of das Velhas and Paraopeba rivers has been carried out regularly by
FEAM through CETEC, since 1977. In the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan area there are fifteen (15)
monitoring stations, where a characterization of the water quality is done with the analysis of relevant
chemical parameters. A water quality index is calculated on the basis of nine of these parameters,
Dissolved oxygen, tempersture, pH, BOOD, tibidity, toWl dissolved solids, faecal colifonn, nitrates and phosphates.



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
following common procedures used elsewhere. Little data exist on the industrial discharges that these
rivers receive, only preliminary surveys have been done for the preparation of this project.
13.    The Waste Master Plan (Plano Director de Esgostos da Area Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte,
PDE) of 1980, made by COPASA-MG set the guidelines for the waste water collection and treatment
system development in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area.
C. Water Quality In Belo Horizonte
14.    For most parts of the hydrographic network of the metropolitan area, in the das Velhas and
Paraopeba river basins, water quality is below that required by the classification of the rivers based in
their intended use. According to the results of the monitoring network, almost at all monitoring stations
one or more parameters are above the permissible limit in 100 % of the sampling. Organic matter,
phosphorous, dissolved oxygen, toxic metals and cyanide are commonly in concentrations that do not
fulfill the quality requirements for these rivers.
15.    Water flowing in the Arrudas and Onga rivers is mainly composed of wastewater, both domestic
and industrial. Oxygen levels in these two river are normally below 2 ppm in most of their length through
the urbanized area of Belo Horizonte. This situation causes evident health hazards and nuisances that
adversely affect the areas along the rivers and the population settlements on their banks. The discharge
of the Arrubas and Onga also adversely affects the water of the das Velhas river, which presents long
stretches with low oxygen contents and general degradation of its quality.
16.    Water quality in the Belo Horizonte area ranks among the worst in the Minas Gerais State, due
to the concentration of domestic and industrial discharges and the low dilution capacity of the Arrubas
and Onga rivers'. This is caused by the progressive growth of the city, which now occupies most of their
catchment area.
17.   Industr:al activity is mainly based on the metallurgical and metal processing activity (23 % of the
industries in Belo Horizonte and 28 % in Contagen), although other important industries -- agro-industry
(11 and 14 % respectively), and textiles (20 and 3 % respectively) are also present.
18.    The importance of the metallurgical sector is explained by the fact that more than 60% of the
Brazilian reserves and near 99.7 % of the production of iron are concentrated in the state of Minas
Gerais; 16 % of the state reserves are in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Area (BHMA). Also 68 % of
Brazilian gold reserves are in Minas Gerais and 95 % of the state production in the BHMA.
19.    The industrial development in the Arrudas and Onga river basins represents a substantial
proportion of the pollution load. The mining activity, which characterizes the State and gives it its name,
forms the base for the presence of a very important and well structured metallurgical sector, which
discharges its effluent untreated into the rivers and the sewerage network. Apart from the high
contribution in terms of suspended solids, there is an important load of toxic and aggressive substances,
including heavy metals and \\\, originating from this sector.
In the etuched pollution tables it can be seen the relative imporunce of the pollution discnarges to the dilution capacity of both rivers.



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
20.    Most industries in Belo Horizonte and Contagen are located in the four industrial districts',
although some of the large organic polluting ones (mainly the agro-alimentary and textile sectors) are in
other areas of the city. The Arrudas river receives the main part of the industrial discharges and the most
important part from the metallurgical sector. Mannesman and the Companhia Siderurgica Belgo-Mineira,
with 19,200 and 2,400 m3/d respectively, contribute to a large extent to the pollution of this river, both
with organic and metal discharges.
21.    According to the results of the initial industrial catalog done by CETEC for FEAM between 1980
and 1982 and to the list of industrial consumers of COPASA-MG the total BOD5 load discharged by the
industry in the Arrudas and Sarandi-Onca river basins can be estimated, using unitary discharge ratios,
at around 24,000 kg/d. The suspended solids load discharged by the industry in these river basins is
estimated at 15,000 kg/d.
22.    Apart from the load of organic matter and suspended solids discharged by the industry located
in the metropolitan area, the discharges of toxic substances (metals, acids, cyanide) with the industrial
effluent is also of great significance for the development of the project. Together with their impact on
the quality of receiving waters, these substances can jeopardize the maintenance of the sewerage system,
restrict the reutilization of the sludge which will be produced by primary sedimentation (included in the
project), and adversely affect the planned secondary treatment.
23.    In order to avoid the expected negative effects of the industrial discharges, the implementation
of the project requires the execution of a program which will include the characterization of the industrial
sector in the Arrudas and Onca basins and an investment plan to control industrial effluent discharge in
the rivers and in the sewerage syste-m.
D. The Plan of Action
24.    Because of the importance of industrial discharges, the project will include the development of
an Industrial Control and Investment Plan to control industrial discharges within prescribed limits ror the
recovery of the river water quality (in the case of discharges done directly into the rivers) and for the
adequate protection of the sewerage network and the functioning of the wastewater treatment. Terms of
reference have already been agreed with FEAM for the preparation of this Plan'.
25.    The execution of the Plan will be directly linked to the institutional strengthening of FEAM,
which will be dealt by another project subcomponent. Both these activities with the necessary poilicy and
legislative actions shown in the next page are summarized in the attached "Plan of Action".
*  Cidade Industrial Coronel Juventino Dias (Contagen; Arruda.)
Distrito Industrial Jatobd (Belo Horizon:; Arrud..)
Centro Industrl de Contagen, CINCO (Contagen; Sarmndi-Onqa)
Cento Indurial de Contagen n, CINCAO (Contagen; Sarendi-Onga)
The execution of the guidelines and investments programr which will reoult of this Plan can be acconmmodated under the financial
framework which wil be developed through the Bank Loan for Industial Pollution Control or the Opermaional Program for the
protection of the environmet wshich DMG hls operational



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
26.   The plan of action comprises five main components. Under the first one, a cadastre of polluting
industries and a strategy for pollution control will be prepared by a specizlized consultant. In the second
component the institutional capacity of FEAM will be analyzed and will be made for strengthening
FEAM.
27.   The last three components will consist of: a) the issuance of the regulatory framework for
industrial pollution control, b) the preparation of f,nancial mechanisms that will help the industry achieve
the required levels of treatment to fulfill the quality targets established in the regulatory framework, and
c) the setting up of the monitoring and control scheme to guarantee the application of this framework.
28.   Main milestones for the implementation of the industrial discharges control plan of action are:
-       Approval by the State Government of the FEAM restructuring proposals developed
under the institutional strengthening component (March 31, 1993)
-       Proposal to the Bank by the State Government of the control mechanisms for industrial
discharges (August 1993)
-       Setting up of the financial mechanisms for the execution of the treatment and
pretreatment facilities required to adapt the industrial discharges to the limits and
conditions set up by the control mechanism (August 1994)
-       Implementation of the plan for treatment and pretreatment of industrial discharges
before the completion of the municipal wastewater treatment plants (January 1997)



Ii   6  U  W     -   3   3   3~~~~~~~~~~~Z
3   -       U      A   U   U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
N                   -      .   V   V   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
I   ~~~       PD  ~~~~~j   ~~~ui        ~ ~ I
a 01~~~~
24        a                                                              
v                                                                    0.W
~~~~~~~~..                        .............
.   . .     .   . . . . . . . . . .
N                            -~~ . . . .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9 ;,o 9 aftd~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 44 -ANNEX5
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECr IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Summary of Cosu
[   7 SUB - ROJecT     3; ;"   l al  f . L jsXrC        f      s        TOTAL
DRAINAGE                                                                           101,006           38.25
D - I Regulariz. / Urbaniz Arrudas - Phane 11            PBH                        47,938           IS.15|
D - 2 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Sarandi - Phase I             PMC                         10.381           3.93
D - 3 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Ferrugem - PMC                PMC                         16,998           6.44
D - 4 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Once                           PBH_                      25,689            9.73
SEWERAGE                                             _                              134.968          51.11
B - 1 Sewerge Interceptors Arrudas                     COPASA                        12,958           4.91
E - 2 Sewerage Interceptors Sarandi                    COPASA                         6,784           2.57
E - 3 Sewerage f'eatment Station Arrudas               COPASA                        33,916          12.84
e - 4 Reversion System Vargem Flores                   COPASA                        10,760           4.07
B - 5 Sewerage Coanection & Discharge Onc              COPASA                        13,528           5.12
B - 6 Sewerage Interceptors Oncn                       COPASA                        25,022 __   9.48
E - 7 Sewerge Teatment S'Ation Once                    COPASA                        32,000          12.12
SOLID  WASTES                                                                         4,665            1.77
E - 1 Solid Wastes Rehabilitation Prog. PBH              PBH                          2,672           1.01
R - 2 Solid Wastes Rehab. Porgram PMC                    PMC                          1.568           0.59
R - 3 Ground Wates Disposition Prog. Perobas             PMC                           425            0.16
URBANIZAT_ON                                                                          7,819           2.36
M - 1 Urban Improvements - Arfudas PBH                   PBH                          2,583           0.981
M - 2 Urban Treatment - Arrudas PMC                      PMC                           855            0.32
M - 3 Ecological Park Pampulba                           PBH                          1,028           0.39
M - 4 Environmental Protection                           PMC                          3,353           1.27
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT                                                              8,458            3.20
A - 1 Protection Study - 'Rio Das Velbas        J        FEAM                         2,364           0.90
A - 2 Environmental Traning Prog. - PBH         |        FEAM                          820            0.31
A - 3 Industrial Activity Control                        FEAM                         2,556           0.97
A - 4 Institutional Development - FEAM          |        FEAM                         2,718           1.03
MANAGEMENT                                                                            7,137           2.70
0G- 1 Manasement Superv. Cornplem.Project            SEOP/BDMG                        7,1371          2.70
TOTAL BASE COST ..                 .....                 264,053
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (5*) ..                     .....                   13,203
PRICE AT DEC 1991 PRICES .......                                   277,256
ESCALAnON ..                .....                  30,374
TOTAL PROJECT COST ..                  .....                 307,630
1 - Minas  erais .......            53,033          17.24
2 - Copasai sG .                    78,907           25.65
3 - Belo Horizonte                  22.568            7.34
4 - Contagem ........-               8,122            2.64 1
5 - IBRD..                         145,000          47.131



- 45 -                                      ANNX 6.4
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Annual Investmonts
5XDCDTINO~    T(YrAL                         YE"I
SUB - PROJBCI                      AGENCY m     UJ x0O1*    I 1m   1 1995   1 s994  1 1905    19K6    1997  1
DRAINAGE                                                         101,006  38.25   1,873  24,651  33,744  22,432  15,890   2,414
D - 1 Regulariz. / Urbanlz Arruda - Phase It       PH             47,9381 18.15      470    7,877   12,390 | 12,390   12,397    2414
D - 2 Regulariz. / Urbankz Sarandi - Phase I       PMC            10,381   3.93      739    5,339   3,853 l    450 1        1
D - 3 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Ferrugem - PMC          PMC            16,9981  6.44      473    7,977    8,0741    474
D-4 Regulariz. / Urbanlz Onca            P9H                      25,6891  9.73 1_ 1931  3,458 _ _   9,4271 9,111     3,493         J
EWERAGE                                                         134,968  51.11   1,564  32,487  46,099  36,082  16,593   2,143
E-1 Sewerage Interceptors Arruds              _COPASA             12,958   4.91      388    3,900    3,474    3,474    :,722
E - 2 Sewerage Interceptors Sarandi              COPASA            6,784   2.57     239    1,957    3,310    1,278         I
E - 3 Sewerage Teatment Station Arrudas          COPASA           33,916  12.84      500   12,266   12,336    7,004    1,810
E - 4 Reversion System Vargem Flores             COPASA           10,760   4.07       50    3,423    4,828    2,459
- 5 Sewerage Connection & Discharge Onca       COPASA           13,528   5.12             3,531    7,134    2,863
E - 6 Sewerage Interceptors Onca                 COPASA           25,022[  9.48     200    6,184    8,590    6,960    3,088
-:-7 Sewerage Teatment Station Onca              COPASA   1    32,0001 12.12         187    1,226 [  6,427   12,0441  9,9731  2,i431
OLID  WASTES                                                      4,665   1.77      393   1,821    1,675      776        0        0
R -1 Solid Wastes Rehabilitation Pro. PBH          PBH             2,6721  1.011    133    1,2021    9371    4001          1       1
R - 2 Solid Wastes Rehab. Pergram PMC              PMC      I      1,5681  0.59 |     39     4151    738 1    376 _          I
k-3 Ground Wastes Disposition Prog. Peroba.s      PMC               4251  0.161    221J    2041    l 1            |
RBANIZATION                                                      7,819   2.96       164   1,125   2,368   2,323    1,839          0
I - 1 Urban Improvements - Arrudas PBH            PBH             2,583   0.98    52        237      716      931      647 _       |
I - 2 Urban Treatment - Arrudas PMC               PMC               855   0.32       17       80     213      284      261
I - 3 Ecological Park Pampulha               [    PBH             1,028   0.39       15      566     447
1 - 4 Environmental Protection               I    PMC             3,35     1         80     242 _            1,108     931
NVIRONMENTAL MANAGEiAETTT                                         8,458   3.21      342   4,277    2,013      874      634      318
k - 1 Protection Study - 'Rio Du Velhas           FEAM             2,364   0.901            1,452     628      142      142
k - 2 Environmental Traning Prog. - PBH           FEAM              820|  0.31         1_279 1       364      165      12|
k - 3 Industrial Activity Control                 FEAM             2,556!  0.971    2041  1,994       128      128     102 _    _
- 4 Institutional Development - FEAM              IEAM      J 2,718   1.03|    138|    552            8934    439      378|    318
MANAGEMENT                                                         7,137   2.70      371    1,652    1,601    1,556    1,556     381
G - 1 Management Superv. Cornplem. Project   |7BDMG    |           7,137L 2.t01    3711   1,6521   1,60111   1,556   6           ;81 |
TOTAL BASE COST ......................   264.053  100.00    4,7091  66,013   87,500   64,053   36,522   5,256
PHYSICAI, CONTINGENCIES (5%) ........  ..............    13,203            235 I  3,301    4,375    3,203    1,826     263
PRICE AT DEC. 1991 PRICES  ....................   277,256           4,945   69,314   91.875   67,235 | 38,348    5,519
ESCALATION (3.0    ....................    30,374             76    3,910    8,969    9 344 j  6,938    1,136
TOTAL PROJECT C          ... ........  - I...   307,630       5,021   73,224  1060,844   76,600   45,287    6,654
TOTAL AS % OF BASE C.....                             100             1.631   23.80    32.78    24.90]   14.72,   2-16



- 46 -                                       ANNY 6B
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Investments Distribution by Sources
WUTFNO[   TOTAL                                         SOURCES
7              STR UB- PMO  IiCT.              I   AGINCY   I USS I 100I  %*   I 0MG  I COPASA I PBH                 PMC  I IBRD
DRAINAGE                                                            101,006  38.25   31,445             0   17,392    6,254   45,915
D - I Regulariz. / Urbaniz Arrudas - Phasee ll        PBH      |    47,938 1 18.15   15,0841                12,610             20,24.
D - 2 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Sarandi - Phase I          PMC             10,381    3.93    3,118 _-                  _   2.262    5,001
D - 3 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Ferrugem - PMC             PMC             16,998    6.44    43818           _          __992    8 188
D - 4 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Onc                  !    PBH             25,6891  9.73    8,4253                 4,782             12,482
SEWERAGE                                                            134.968  51.11          0      67,477        0         0   67,484
E - I Ser irage Interceptors Arrudas               COPASA             12,958    4.91                6,472                        ,
E - 2 Sewer&ge Interceptors Sarandi                COPASA             6,784    2.57                 3,392        =_|  3,392
E - 3 Sewerage Teatment Station Arrudus             COPASA            33,916   12.84               16,958            _ __     16.95
E - 4 Reverion System Vargem Flores                 COPASA            10,760    4.07                5,380 ___538
E - 5 Sewerage Connection A Discharge Once          COPASA            13,528    5.12                6,764  _ _   ___           6 76
e - 6 Sewerage Interceptors Onca                    COPASA           25,022    9.48                12,511 _                   12,5
E - 7 Sewerage Teatment Station Onca                COPASA   |    32,000   1212 _                  16,000                    1  16,0
SOLID  WASTES                                                          4,665    1.77    1,838           0      704      558    1,565
R - 1 Solid Wastes Rehabilitation Prog PBH            PBH             2.672 1  1.01    1,033            _      704          1    935
R - 2 Solid Wastes Rehab. Porgtmm PMC                 PMC              1,568    0.59     632                       1    4681    468
R - 3 Ground Wastes Disposition Prog. Perobas         PMC      j        '25]   0.16      173                      |      90 1    162
URBANIZATION                                                           7,819   2.96    3,273            0      883      212    3,451
M - 1 Urban Improvements - Arrudas PBH                PbH              2,583    0.98     985             1    657          T-  941
M - 2 Urban Treatment - Arrudu PMC                    PMC               855   0.32       329                      I    212       3 14
M - 3 Ecological Park Pempulha                        PBH              1,028    0.39     413 _                 226               389
M - 4 Environmental Protection                        PMC              3,353    1.27    1,5461                _ _          1  1,807
ENVIRONMENTAL  MANAGEMENT                                              8,458   3.21    4,178            0         0        0 _   4,280
A - 1 Protection Study - 'Rio Das Velbas             FEAM              2,364]  0.90    1,3221            1 _  I  _
A - 2 Environmental Traning Prog, - PBH              FEAM               8201  0.31       386 |           |         | _ _
A - 3 Industrial Activity Control                    FEAM              2,556 !  0.97     383 I _          __-____               2,173
A -4  Institutional Development - FEAM               FEAM             1203|   2,0871 _                     _                     631
MANAGEMBNT                                                             7,137   2.70    4,965        1,652        0         0    2,172
[G - 1 Management Superv. Complem. Project           BDMG               7,1371  2.70 1  4,9651       1,652 |__2 [T2             2172
TOTAL BASE COST  ..............    264,053  100.00   45,700             67,484   18,979    7,024  124;867
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (5%) .13203                                           2,285        3,374      949      351     .243
PRICE AT DEC. 1991 PRICES .....          .......    277,256           47,985      70,858   19,928    7 37 5  I   '10
ESCALATION (3.9%) .30374                                      5,048        8,049    2,640      747    J,890
TOTAL PROJECr COST ...................    307,630               53,033      78,907   22,568    8,122  145,000
TOTAL AS %  OF BASE COST ...................             100        |  17.241       25.651   7.34     2.641  47.13



- 47 -
ANN   7
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Structure of Costs
JXECUJTN(A          1 rASL                           INVESTMENT
SUB - PROJECT                    - AGBNCY  USS Y_00q %  CON. SERq *V                   I EQU1P4     I WOR'A          *
DRAINAGE                                                         101,006  38.25         1,104   1.09         0   0.00    99,902  98.91
D -1  Regulariz. / Urbaniz Arrudas - Phase 11       PBH           47,938   18.151         719   0.71 i                   47,219  46.75
D - 2 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Sarandi - Phasel        PMC             10,381    3.93       .       _      _    _    _       10,381  14.22
D - 3 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Ferrugem - PMC          PMC                                  _ 16,998    6.44                 16,998   16.83
D_-4 Regulariz. / Urbaniz Onca                      PBH           25,689   Q.73           385_  0.38 ___                 25,304  25.05
SEBWRAGE                                                         134,968  51.11         2,680   1.99  56,290  41.71    75,998  56.31
E - I Sewerage Interceptors Arrudas              COPASA            12,958   4.91          254   0.19    4,24]  3.14       8,464   6.27
E - 2 Sewerage Interceptors Sarandi              COPASA            6,784   2.57           102   0.08    1,696   1.26      4,986   3.69
E - 3 Sewerage Teatment Station Arrudas          COPASA           33,916  12.84           509   0.38   13,566  10.05    19,841  14.70
E - 4 Reversion System Vargem Flores             COPASA            10,760   4.07                         5,380   3.99     5,380   3.99
E - 5 Sewerage Connection & Discharge Onca       COPASA            13,528   5.12          375   0.28    6,256   4.64      6,897   5.11
E - 6 Sewerage Interceptors Onca                 COPASA           25,022,  9.48_          320   0.24  12,800   9.48    11,902   8.82
E - 7 Sewerage Teatment Station Onca             COPASA           32,000 | 12.121       1,120   0.82  12,352   9.15    18528   13.73
SOLID  WASTES                                                       4,665   1.77          317   6.79    1,715  36.77      2,633  36.44
R - I Solid Wastes Rehabilitation Prog. PBH         PBH            2,672    1.01          2671  5.721    5341 11451    1,8711 40.11
R - 2 Solid Wastes Rehab. Porgram PMC              PMC              1,5681  0.591          50 ]  1.07|  1,1811 25.321       3371  7.221
R - 3 Ground Wastes Disposition Prog. Perobas      PMC               425 1  0.161 |      __ - --- _                         425 1  9.11|
URBANIZATION                                                        7,819   2.96          372   4.75      739   9.45      6,708  85.80
M - I Urban Improvements - Arrudas PBi        I    PBH              2,5831  0.981          78!  1.001    3871  4.95   2,1181 27.OV
M - 2 Urban Treatment - Arrudas PMC                PMC               855   0.321           26   0.33]    128   1.64         7011  8.97
M -3 Ecological Park Pampulha                       PBH             1,028 1  0.39 1    ;    61  0.20      140   1.79        872 | 11.15
M - 4 Environmental Protection                |    PMC              3,353    1.27 1       2521  3.22]      84   1.07      3,0171 38.59
NVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMEINT                                          8,458   3.21         7,386  87.33    1,072  12.67          0   0.00
k - 1 Protection Study - 'Rio Das Veltas     [   FEAM              2,364   0.90         1,986  23.48     3781  4.47  _
k - 2 Environmental Traning Prog. - PBH           FEAM              820   0.31           739   8.74       811  0.96
k - 3 Industrial Activity Control                 FEAM             2,556    0.97        2,356   27.86    200   2.36
i - 4 Institutional Development - FEAM       {   FEAM       I      2,718    1.031       2,305  27.25     4131  4.S8!           !
MANAGEMENT                                                          7,137   2.70        7,137 100.00         0   0.00         0   0.00
G - 1 Management Superv, Complem. Project   |   BDMG                7,137   2.70F       7,137 1 100.001       [        1        - ]
TOTAL BASE COST ......................   264,053  100.00      18,9961  7.19   59,8161 22.65   185,241  70.15
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES (5% ) ....................        13,203
PRICE AT DEC. 1991 PRICES .277,256
ESCALATION (3.9% ) .30,374
TOTAL PROJECT COST .307,630
TOTAL AS % OF BASE COST                                100



- 48 -                     ANNz 8
'WATER QUALITY & POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
MINAS GERAIS, ARRUDAS & ONCA WATER BASINS
IN THE BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREA
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
SEPLAN - MG
COORDINATION
tJ G I                       COMMITTEE
TECHNIC               I                           CONSULTANT
F
CU.ORDINATOR        COORDINAITOR        COORDINATOR          COORDINATOR
COASA.MG               FEAM                PHPMC



- 49 -
IUSIL                                                      le  9
I        At QUALITY XN  1@LUfION CCIfL MJ     IN NIMI antS
IINDAS AN W tlCi UaSIS  IN Tit
EID U0111ONZT WTO1@LTAN Am
AGREEMENTS AND FINANCIAL FLOWS
I BRD                                                          UH
~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .............    .. . . . . .
I.  GUARANE  A'7EESENT
[I  LOAN A NEM(N
ili.AGRIEMNI  ST,AT-'INANCI[AL AGENT
IV. QNL~  N~ AgROig?
um'
1.  iUBSIDIAR  AG*EENENT
-         iENEIF NANCIAL RESOUNCES
-         E8RAL DOCUnS M I
....... ..  ,OUlltA  ILTV OF   EX'ESESl=



Table 1
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARR.JDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE ME1ROPOLTAN AREAS
COST BENFIT ARIALYSIS
ESTMATED BASIN CONTRIBUTION TO POLLUTION LOADS
WITHOUT THE PROJECT
T                         -                 POLLUTION  LOADS (KCIDAY)
POP.                                                 INDUSTRIA)                                         TOTAL
BASIN              S_RNED AREA   DOMESTIC SEWARAGE_ DISCHARGE                                      RUNOPP
ARRUASI~ -                       _ 5Q. .  ROD   I 1                     r      BO_ _Ss           _op  |_ |jS                         _  N   | r
ARRUDAK_IA _1                 291,000      47 15.714   15,71412.910           786    3,054    2,060     981    98810   19.749   17,774|  3008           796
[ARRUDASIB                   . S,000          671  24,030   24,030    4.450    1,201   10,I379    7,428    1,550   1551   16  35.959   31,458    4,605    1,217
ARRUDAS III                      192,000       21   10-368   10,368    1.920     518                       553    55      6   10.921   10,368    1,9751    524
ARRUDAS - TOTAL                1,449.000   192  78           78,246  14,490   3,912  15,685  011149   4,514  451    46  98,445  89,395  14,9411   3,958
SARANDI                     T     41,000 __  411   2,214L 2,214i-4410            11i1   1,5691   1,8461    957    87      9f   4,740    4,060i    4971    120    O
AGUA FUNDA                         7.0004      16    378       3781      70       191                      3281   33      3      706      378      103j      22
PAMPUIHA              _       _  189.000       30   10,206   10,206'   1,890     510      365      146     6901   69      7   11,261   10,3521  1,959      517
PAMPULiA  MiE(1)2                  2,000        8     10       108|      20        5 _              -      175    17      2      283      108      37        7
[ON CA                            4200       55   22,680   22,6801  4,200    1,134    6,200    1,874    1,156   116    12  30,036   24,554   4,316    1,146
IISIDORO (1)                      270,000X     54   14,580  14,5801  2.700       729 _         _          1,238   124    131  15,818   14,580    2,824      742
iONCA - TOTAL                    929,000      204  50,166  50,166   9,290   2,508   8,134   3,866   4,544_ 446    46  62.844] 54,032   9,736, 2,554
V. FWRES           34,           7                                 92____11___  ________                                 186        346       9
V. H.OREvS(PUMP1N(          <  34,00(T          7    1,836    1.8361    340       9                         601    6            1896    1,8 [6               92
pV. FLORES lM_IN)            L-   10.000  _1151 5 40           540      100      27  _                |    7611   76      81   1301       5401    1761       35
V. FLORES -- TOTAL           I _ 44.000       1221  2,37  -      7 -° 444)                  °      _               82    81   3,197   2,376       5221    127 P
(D#
Notes:                                                                                                                                                           l;Z
(1) ...ot included in Project   BOD: Biological Cnynes Deun td      N: Nitrogen                                                                                  O >m
(2) .potestisl coutributiom   SS: Suspended Solids                  P: Phosphorus                                                                                 H
cM[o



2
FSTIMATED BASIN CONTRIBUTLON TO POLLUTION LOADS
WIrH THF, PROJECT
rOP.                       -_____  _____ POLLUTlON LOADS (KDAY                               _-
| POP.                       r                         - j INDUSTRIAL
BASIN    | SERVED AREA I DOMESTIC SEWERAGE   DISCHARGE                                            RUNOFF -_-__--__---
|Na    |  1SO BOK S  N  . pBODO  SS               S P1BOD          SS   |OD        N        P   BOD      NSS
|ARRUDAS IA(1)    _____           291,000      47   15,714|7 14,7142,910          786    3,054    2,060     981    98    10   19,749   17,774    3,008      796
ARRUDAS IB                       445,000       67                                            I            1,550   155    16    1,550               155       16
_          _        __                _           _          _       _       _        _        _        _        _                 
ARRUDAS 11                       521,000       57                                            I            1,430   1            1,430        0      14-3      14
ARRUDAS III                      192,000       21                 _         =        _                     553    55      6      553 0_    _        55       6
ARRUDAS - TOTAL                1,449,000     192  15,714  15,714   2910          786   3,054        2,0601  4,514  4511  46  23,282   17,774!  3,361       832
SARANDI                           41,000    41   5___                      _                  --           97  87   9   957                         87        9
AGUA FUNDA                         7,000       16             _   1          _                             328    33      3[    328!         !      33        3
PAMPULHA MD                      189,000 _    30       _                     I                             690    69      7 _     9 _               69        7
PAMPULHA MF                        2,000        8      108     108       20        5                        175    17     2      283      108       37        7    01
ONCA                             42Q000        55                  II                         I1,156   116I   12I   1,156I                         116       12
LSISi RO (1 )       _      _      270,000      54   14,580   14,580    2,700      729  __         -        1,238   124    13   15,818   14,580    2,824     742
|ONCA - TOTAL                _   929,000      2041 14,688] 14,6881  2,720        7341 _        |     0   4,544  446    46  19,232  14,688   3,166           780
V.FLDRES(PPIUPNG)                           I                                _34.0001  71___  0  1          601    61    01       60        0        6 -_
V. FlRES (PUMPING)           I    10,0001    1151    540       540      100       27 _                |    761|  76       8    1,301      540      111|      17
V. PLORPS - TOTAL            [   44,0001    1221    540        540_     100       27    °_  __ °_    8211   82            8    1,361 | 540        117       17
._-se. obin IV-3.7 (w;itho  the project) and the following  acton (of Loads' reductieo  due to Pejec Item 3.4.1:                                               '
-D _omstic and *d tr_ l Sewerage lsterception   100% Land Reoval
-Domestic and Industrial Sewerage Primary Treatment (Remarl Efficiency: 35% BOD. 65% S5, 10% N, 10% P)
- Lenchote (Serndi Basis. Roofl. 96 KG BPD/Dsy)  Excluded                                                                                                      t
- Vargem  D   Flore Reervoir Domestic sewage : 65% Removal f N and P °
- (1) : Wo included in Project
tD O



- 52 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 9
Table 3A
COST RECOVERY INSTRUMENTS AND PROJECT BENEFITS
RECOVERY 1/ 
__|DNm UMElNS                                 VALUEI                       IVALUtlI
SUlf--                     .              TO  Ba                            US$/  I                        US$1  I INTSII
PROJECT   BENEN  CREATED  DESCRTION   MILL | DESCRIPON  MILL  TUTION
WATER SUPPLY                                             _         _.        ,                               _               _
E4, M4       Availability           _          M16      Reduction of                0.3 Cost of alternative          TCOPASA
A2, A3       of water                                   operational costs               water supply
sources                                                                   (inv. + desp. oper)
Assumption A            36.1
_    Assumption B     |     48.1
FLOOD CONTROL / URBANIZATION
DI, D2, D3, Health                ME4                   Savings in                  2.9Increse in prop. val.         |PBHIPMC
D4, El, E2, improvements          ME5                   health & roads                  Assumption A           370.0
E5, A2, A3                                              maintenance                     Assumption B            462.0
Land apprec.                      M13      Additional revenues       77.0          _              -
by new roads                               of IPTU/ITBI
E4, RI, M2, Land                                        Savings in municipal        1.2         _         |
R2, R3, MI reclamation                                  expenses in transport
Solid Wastes                                                              |                  ,
improvement
RECREATION                                _                                                _                    ____
Dl, D2, D3, Recreational                      ___
D4, E1, E2, areas                              M14      Leaseingof                  0.51        -              _      PB}I/PM
E5, MI, M2,                                             recreational faclities
M3, M4                                                 I            fie
Ecological          ME15          M16    I Saving in municipal F      2.51         - 
I Park           I           J_             expenses                                                         ____
SEWERAGE
[EE2, E3,  iReovery of          'ME2        M12        Domestic wastes &                                  -      -i-2.7  COPASA
E4, E5, E6.  Biota in             ME8          MIl       Industrial wastes             F
E7, MI, M2, Pampulha md    I                   M17      tariffs
M3, M4               das flore                          Assumption A               59.6                               PBH
_________  .  ______-_____________     _    L     _   I Assumption   B            78.0 _1_                        _l     -_
ECO - SYSTEMS REHABILITATION
|A, A2, A3  Appreciation of                              Water use surcharge            I                              PMC
A4, RI, R2, Pampuhla and          ME7                   |Assumption A              11.4                              :FEAM
R3           Vargem das floreI                          Assumption B        ,      14.0 
Tariffs
Assumption A             -              -                   j
Assumption B               2 2.7
_____  ____-_____              _____         FEAM  licenses _   I, 2_0_____
1/ See Table 3B



-  53 -                           ANNEX  10
Page 4 of 9
Table 3B
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Cost Recovery Instruments
COST RECOVERY INSTRUMENTS
C~~~~~~~~~  .E R      .... ........$.............. ....
ME - Existing                                 ME8 - Sewer connection fee
MEI - Water tariff                            MI - Water pollution surcharge
ME2 - Sewer tariff                            M12 - Water right fee
ME3 - Tariff                                  M13 - Betterment fee
ME4 - IPTU                                    M14 - Park entrance fee
ME5 - ITBI                                    M15 - Land rental fee
ME6 - ISS / ICMS                              M16 - Reduction of operational cost
ME7 - Environment monitoring fee              M17 - Tariff recuperation
Table 4
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Beneficiary Population
BENEFICIARY             NUMBER
POPULATION             OF POOR
PROJECT COMPONENT                           (HAS)              FAMILIES
SEWERAGE:                                                         _
"Vargem das Rores"                                        15,000                 370
"Bacia do Onca"                                           60,000                3,370
MACRODRAINAGE & INTERCEPTORS:
"Bacia do Arrudas"                                _      316,246                7,862
"Bacia do Onca"                                          176,440                9,936
Parks  ___                                                 1,300,000              32,200
Water Supply                                                700,000               17,400
Resettlement                                                                       109,05S  10



-   4                              ANNEX  10
Table 5                     Page  5  of  9
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATERBASINS IN THE
BELO HORINZONTE METROPOLITAN AREA
Benefits and Cost - Financial Analysis
HYPOTHESIS A
iCODEUB - PROJECT                                  AGENCY  COST BENEFITjBIC1/ IRR%
D - 1    Regulariz/Urbaniz Arrudas - Phase II          PBH _         37,744       21,887     0(580|-   6.884
* - 2     Regulariz./Urbaniz. Sarandi - Phase I        PMC            9,485        9,2341    0.974      11.969
!*D - 3   Regulariz./Urbaniz Ferrugem - ?MC            PMC           15,321         1,563 _0 102    (4.8891
D - 4     Regulariz./UrbanizC Onca                     PBH           20,796        15,450     0.743      8.850
IBRD Project                  Subtotal       83,346       48,134      0.578      6.710
D- 1A   RegulariL/Urbaniz Arrudas - Phase II           PBH           16,914       24,997      1.478;   17.821
D -.3A    Regulariz./UrbaniL Sarandi - Phase I                       17,613        4,121      0.234     (O.06.O
D - 4A    Regulariz./Urbaniz Agua Branca                             12,675        2,666      0.210    -1.115
Drainage                            _    130,548        79,918  _  0.612       6.950
*1           -  ____________   _____  _    __
E - 1     Sewerage Interceptors Arrudas              COPASA    ____ [                                       _ 4
E - 3   _Sewerage Treatment Station Arrudas          COPASA   _ __                                     _   _  i
E - 1A    Sewerage Interceptors Arrudas              COPASA          52,881       52,243      0.988     11.847
E - 2     Sewerage Interceptors Sarandi              COPASA        ._                   t-. .
E - 5    + Sewerage Connection 7 Discharge Onca    COPASA
E-6       Sewerage Interceptors Onca                 COPASA                4-
E-7  -   Sewerge Treatment Station Onca              COPASA          69,499       27,94       0.400      2.290
E-4  Sewerage System Vargem Flores              COPASA         12,499         3,964      0.317  _Lf2.4898
!   _______    Swerage System                 Subtotal      135,384       84,001 -   0.620       6.480
R-1       Solid Waste Rehabilitation Prog. P PB   T                   2,350         1,170 _0.498  5_ _34
R - 2     Solid Waste Rehabilitation Prog. PMC         PMC    l    1,329                            _ I
, R - 3    'Ground Waste Disposition Pro gPerobas l   PMC              4231
Solid Waste               I  Subtotal        4,102k        1,170|    0.285      1;368
M - I    Urban Treatmnt - Arrudas PBH               |   PBH            2,055          4771    0.232 -     0.48-5)
M - 2    Urban Treatment - Arrudas PMC            1   PMC              658              t-----
M - _3    Estblish. of Ecolog. Park Pampulha _         PBH            3,040        6,691  -   2.201     50.806
M - 4_   Environmental Protection Progam           _ MC               2,591          ______   _        --- -
Urbanization            -    Subtotal  l    8,343,         7,169 K    0.859     9.286
S A - 1   Protection Study - 'Rio Das Velhas'          FEAM           2,088              1
A - 2 Environmental_Tr             Pdm_- PBH           FEAM             697  _____
A-         Inutra A__        Co __ _E~ ___ ______                                         __ _ _ __  _+____  
* - 3     Industrial Activity Control              ;     _FEAM_I    2,354          2,055      0.873     10.689
* - 4    I Development Institutional FEAM              FEAM    I    1,9071                    2_9
Environmental Management             Subtotal       7,0471        2,0551        0.292   1.971
G - I    Manage., Superv., Complement Pro.            BDGM            5,419             __|
Expropriations/ Resettlement            I PBHMC           15,3711
TOTAL  _____ _ 1306,214               174.313'1   0.569       5974
1/ At 12 percent discount rate



- 55 -
ANNEX 10
Table 6                    Page  6  of  9
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATERBASINS IN THE
BELO HORINZONTE METROPOLITAN AREA
Benefits and Coat - Financial Analysis
HYPOTHESIS B
CODE SUB - PROJECT                              JAGENCY  COST BNEFIT     B / C I RI
D - 1    Regulariz/Urbaniz. Arrudas - Phase _I  PBH              37,744       21,887     0.580     6.884
D - 2    Regulariz/Urbaniz. Sarandi - Phase I       PMC           9,485        9,234     0.974    11.969
D - 3    Regulariz./Urbaniz Ferrugem - PMC          PMC          15,321        1,563     0.102    (4.88
D - 4    Regulariz/Urbaniz. Onca                     PBH         20,796       15,450     0.743     8.850
IBRD Project                Subtotal      83,346       48,134     0.578      6.710
D - IA   Regulaz./Urbaniz Arrudas - Phase II         PBH         16,914       24,997     1.478    17.821
D - 3A   Regularz./Urbaniz. Sarandi - Phase I                    17,613        4,121     0.234    (0.
D - 4A   Regulariz/Urbaniz. Agua Branca                          12,675        2,666     0.210    -1.115
Drainage                            |  130,548       79,918     0.612      6.950
E-1    Sewerage Interceptors Arrudas              COPASA
E - 3     Sewerage Treatment Station Arrudas       COPASA              _                        _     -
E - IA    Sewerage Interceptors Arrudas            COPASA        52,881       86,401      1.634    18.441
E - 2     Sewerage Interceptors Sarandi            COPASA
E - 5    | Sewerage Connection 7 Discharge Onca    COPASA                                        _ _
E -6_  Sewerage Interceptors Onca                 COPASA
E - 7     Sewerage Treatment Station Onca         COPASA         69,499       35,136     0.506      4.410
E - 4     Sewerage System Vargem Flores           COPASA         12,499        4,884     0.391 _  0.542
Swerage System               Subtotal     135,384      126,421     0.934    11.171
R- 1    Solid 'Waste Rehabilitation Prog. PBH        PBH    [    2,350 _       1,170     0.498      5.334
R - 2    Solid Waste Rehabilitation Prog. PMC       PMC           1,329                  _
R - 3_  | Ground Waste Disposition Prog. Perobas    PMC             423                  _
Solid Waste                Subtotal  [   4,102          1,170     0.285     1.368
M - 1    Urban Treatment - Arrudas PBH               PBH    |    2,055           477     0.232    (0.485)
M -2    Urban Treatment - Arrudas PMC___            PMC    ]        658             I          _
M - 3    Estblish. of Ecolog. Park Pampulha          PBH    |    3,040         6,6911    2.201    50.806
M - 4    Environmental Protection Progam            PMC    J    2,591 _             |              _  _
Urbanization                Subtotal  J    8,343        7,169     0.8591    9.286|
A -1    Protection Study - 'Rio Das Velhas'         FEAM          2,088 _                   _  _
A - 2   lEnvironmental Training Progm - PBH .   FEAM                697
A - 3   ndustrial Activity Control                  FEAM          2,354        2,055     0.873    10.689
A - 4    [Development Institutional FEAM            FEAM          1,907              _          _     _
Envirommental Management           Subtotal       7,047,       2,055,    0.292J    1.971!
G - 1    Manage., Superv., Complement Pro.         BDGM           5,419                        _____
Expropriations / Resettlement           PBIWPMC        .15.637.1
TOTAL                 - 306,214     216,733-   0.708       8.232
1/ At 12 percent discount rate



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 9
Table 7
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Economic Analysis
CODE SUB - PROJECT                                 RESP fCOST BENEFIT B  C 1IItIRR %RRM %
D - 1   | Canalize / Urbaniz Arrudas - Part H1    PBH          37,744        86,082     2.281    41.496
D - 2     Canalize / Urbaniz Sarandi - Part I     PMC           9,485        56,252     5.931   112.157 _
D - 3     Canalize / Urbaniz Ferrugem - Contagem  PMC           15,321        9,225     0.602   (16.795
D - 4     Canalize / Urbaniz Onca                 PBH          20,796        71,349     3.431    74.735        I
Total Programa BIRD                     Subtotal      83,346      222,908      2.674    56.370       15.10
D - IA    Canalize / Urbaniz Arrudas - Part 11    PBH           16,914      105,132     6.216   239.573        17.83
D - 3A    Canalize / Urbaniz Sarandi - Part I     PBH           17,613       25,384     1.441    28.546        13.14
D - 4A    Canalize / Urbaniz Agua Branca          PBH           12,675       16,437     1.297    27.215'       12.81:
Total Systema de Drenagem                            130,548      369,861     2.833    85.883        15.28'
E - I     Sewage Intercept Arrudas                COPASA  _            _
E - 3     Sewage Treatment Plant Arrudas          COPASA
E - IA    Sewage Intercept Arrudas                COPASA                                           .
E - 2     Intercept Sarandi - Mont. Pampulha      COPASA                                     .
E - 5     sewer do Onca                           COPASA
E - 6     Sewage Intercept Onca                   COPASA
B - 7     Sewage Treatment Plant Onca             COPASA                                      _
E - 4     Pumping Vargem das Floras               COPASA        12,499       36,117     2.890    36.664        15.350
Subtotal    135,384       36,117      0.267   (59.892         7.964
Total drainage & Swerage                Subtotal    265,932       405,980      1.527    39.179       13.324
R - 1     Melhor. Pros. Res. Sol. - BH           | PBH           2,350 |           j         |          |
R - 2     Melhor. Prog. Res. Sol. - Contagem     | PMC           1,329 |
R - 3  _ Probas Sanitary Land Fill                PMC             423
____________________________________________  |_Subtotal         4,102 |____Subtotal_4_10
M - I    Urbanization in Arrudas - BH            1 PBH          2,055          476      0.232    (0.5031        7.542
M - 2    Urbanization in Val Arrudas - Contagem  PMC              658 |                 _     _         1
M - 3    Ecolocal Park                            PBH 1         3,040         4,174     1.373    25.747        12.991
M-4    Vergem das Flores Protection Plan          PMC           2,591 _                       _           _
| _______________________________________________ _  |Subtotal  8,343         4,650 |   0.557      2.738  |    10.196
A - I     Las Velhas River Study                  FEAM          2,0881 |_________
A -2      Community Promotion                     FEAM            697 1    _                                  _
A - 3     Industrial Pollution Control            FEAM          2,354
A - 4     FEAM  Institutional St -ngtheinig       FEAM           1,907 |            _         _          _
Subtotal      7,04';       _           _   _     _     _
G - I    Project Management                      IBDGM   I    5,4191               1         1          1
[I        IExprovlations / Resettlement           I PBH/PMC    15.3711
rTOTALI              306.214 T    410.630 1   1.341 T  29.812        12.9177
1/ At 12 percent discount rate



- 57 -
ANNEX 10
Tsblo 8                                 Page 8 of 9
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Economic Analysis
~CODB 81,1J8 =PioiEcT                                RM?v COST BRENEFIT 8I1C 11 IRR   itRMIS '
D - 1     Canalize / Urbaniz Arrudas - Part il     PBH           37,744       107,602      2.851    50.141        15.307
D - 2     Canalize / Urbaniz Sarandi - Part I      PMC            9,485        70,314      7.413    128.749       18.409
* - 3     Canalize / Urbanki Ferrugem - Contagem   PMC           15,321        11,531      0.753   (16.797        11.119
D - 4     Canalize / Urbaniz Onca                  P8H           20,796        89,186      4.289    88.167        16.623
Total Proyama BIRD                       Subtotal      83,346       278,633      3.343        68            16
D - IA    Canalize / Urbaniz Arrudas - Part 11     PBH            16,914      131,415      7.770   284.759        18.564
D - 3A    Canalize / Urbaniz Sarandi - Part I      P1            17,613        31,731      1.802    39.092        13U846
D - 4A    Canalize/Urbaniz Agua Branca                           12,675        20,546      1.621    41.017        13.513
Total Systems de Drenaem                               13,548       462,325      3541    110087         16004
Sewage Intercept Arrudas                 COPASA               _                               __
I    Sewage Treatment Plant Arrudas            COPASA
,A   Sewage Intercept Arrudas                 COPASA
_Intercept Sarandi - Mont. Pampulha       COPASA 
sewer do Onca                                COPASA                     _
Sewage Interoept Onca                    COPASAI
_  Sewage Treatment Plant Onca               COPASA                       7_                               _ 
Pumping Vargem das Floras                COPASA        12,499           48      3.847    44.324         16.21i
Subtotsl     135,384           48      0.355   (59.8921        8.825
R - 1    Melhor. Prog. Res Sol. - BH           -  PBH             2,350| _                     |          | 1
R - 2     Melhor. Prog. ReL Sol. - Contagem        PMC             1,3291          _ |
R - 3     Probas Sanitary Land Fill                 PMC             423
_  Subtotal    4,102
M - 1    Urbanization in Arrudu - BH             |IPBH            2,0551          476 |     .232|   (0.503; 7_5i2_ |
Urbanization in Val Arrudas - Contagem  PMC              658 _                       I
M - 3   | Ecolocal Park                            PBH             3,040 1      4,174      1,373i   25.747        12.991
rM - 4   |Vergem  das Flares Protection Plan        PMC            2,591              |         |          |    _
Subtotal       8,3431       4,650 1    0.5571    2  738        It' 1961
Las Velhas River Study                   FEAM           2,0881 |            _                    I
| Community Promotion                     FEAM            697               |
| Industrial Pollution Control            FEAM           2,354      __      |    _  1
| FEAM  Institutional Strengtheinig       FEAM           1,907 _             _          _         _        _
Subtotal  1    7,047              1         1          1             1
G - 1    Project Management                        BDGM    |    5,4191             -|I      -   |           _ 
Exprovriations / Resettlement            PBH/PM_   15.3711 _
1/ At 12 percent discount rate



Table 9
CURRENT WATER QUAUTY IN THE ARRUDAS. DA ONCA AND DAS VELHAS RIVERS
AND BRAZILIAN STANDARDS
Ce t.
_CONDUC-                   j                   DISSOLVED                            _
pH         IRSBIII1             COLOltp    UVIT            HADNESS ALCJitINTY    OXYtOB-N    DOD                          COD
it fo categoy3                   6 -      |      1.00         [75                             N.A. |          N.A.              > 5            < 10    |             I
Actual Situation in
Aruds  River                 6.2 - 7.4      74   160       160-200            390         91   104       114   175          0 -0.7        30 -270    272 -456
da Onca River                7.1 -8.0       45   54         80 - 160       380 -470                                         0 - 0.1       30 -116    40 -272
L  dasVesW   River               6.1 - 7.4      21-42   [30-80                170 - 220       29 -74            18.83          4   4.9        6- 140        16 -192                         _
00
TOTAL   SREDIUIN1E1E                                                                      j I
COD  BODI  SOLIDS    SOLDS   NITITES NITRATI.5  CHLOIUNE pHOSPpHATE SULFATES CYANIDES                                                           COLI
-                 i   n        n      i  .          ..                                       I.   
I imit for category 3        |    > 3            N.A.            N.A.      I      I      |      10      1       250      |      0.025           250     |     0.2              4.000
LAcul -SiUtuaton inI
[Actuarr  Riveatrn             L 2.43       1S00 - 780           5 - 9      1   0.006       0.12 -0.34        39 - 77          1.2 - 4.1      19 - 134         0.03  - 01|15- 8
Arruda    Rive             j  2.43__        f  _____.0 6                                  .    -__0__34 _ _39 -__ _ _ _ 77_    _  _ _     __  _  _  _     _  _  _        x O  5 5  1  "
da Oncs River  _2.14                       330 - 510       _0.5 - 3.5         0.006      05 - 0.41         36 - 62         0.4 - 2.0       18 - 79  |       -               3x10^5
das Velhas River          j    1.04        170 -- 1010        I - 2       0.03 - 0.08   0.12 - 0.39        17 - 28         0.08 - 0.8   |25 - 9           0.025    | 1.7xlO^S - 1.6x10^7
tDi
o0x
1_



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
BRAI IL
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
A. Introduction
1.   The financial projections for the state water company (COPASA-MG) are based on audited annual
financial reports. For the state of Minas Gerais and the Municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem
financial statements and the 1991 budget were used.
2.   Because of the high inflation in Brazil during the past decade, historic financial statements have
been translated into current US$ (using year-end exchange rates for balance sheets and average exchange
rate for income statements); projections have also been prepared in constant US$. The coefficients used
for projected international inflation follow the IBRD OD 6.5, May 1991; and the historic domestic
inflation and exchange rates are estimated based on Cojuntura Economica, March 1991.
B. Financial Situation of COPASA                                       i
3.   Operating revenues are obtained from the sale of water and sewage collection. Other operating
revenues, which include installation and service fee, sale of equipment and penalties for delayed payments
represent 3.2% of the total operating revenues.
4.   Real increases in the average tariff from  1987 to 1990 improved financiai performance of
COPASA. However, the average tariff for 1991 descended 23% in real terms to 0.37 US$SM3, from the
1990 value of 0.48 US$/M3. Reasons for this tariff decrease are twofold: (i) a freeze in tariff adjustments
between February and April 1991, because of the plan Collor II; and (ii) a real reduction in tariff due
the elimination of the ICMS, from which COPASA retained 60%. The project is designed to help
COPASA recuperate and improve its financial situation, through a tariff adjustments in 1992 and 1993
to an e d of the year level of 0.43 US$/M`, and 0.50 US$/M3 respectively, maintaining this level up to
1997. This tariff adjustments are designed to meet COPASA's investment program, while maintaining
a relation cash flow to investment during 1992-1997 under 50%.
5.   Operating expenses include personnel, materials (chemical and others), electricity, other third party
services, general and fiscal costs. Personnel costs are projected reflecting annual productivity gains of
0.5% starting in 1992.
6.   Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis according to the mean historical audited values.
However, COPASA revaluated its assets in 236% at year-end 1991, and the corresponding value of
approximately one billion US$ is used for financial projections starting in 1992. This revaluation allows
an average rate of return on investments of 4%, which represents one third of the maximum 12% allowed
5' tlhe tariff legislation.



- 60 -
ANNlEX 11
Page 2 of 10
7.   The net financial income and expenses is the net of interest on long term debt (excluding interests
during construction on the IBRD and CEF loans, which is capitalized) and interest income from short
term investment.
8.   In the historical financial statement, total inflation adjustment is the net of monetary variations on
long and short term debt. Projections have no provision for inflation adjustments in the future due to the
difficulties of projecting inflation in Brazil.
9.   Income tax for the water sector was increased from its historical 6% level to 30% during flscal
year 1989. Brazilian corporate iaw allows for an income tax loss carry forward of up to four years, thus
the companies assumed no provision to pay for Income tax.
C. COPASA Companies Balance Sheet
10.  Accounts receivable, consisting of accounts billed and unpaid, are assumed to decrease from the
present 80 days to an average of 45 days of yearly sales revenue for the 1992-1997 period. An special
effort should be done to discipline public consumers averaging 302 days, and consumers in Belo
Horizonte Metropolitan representing 44% of invoiced revenue, with receivables averaging 82 days.
Overall collection period will be decreased from the current 42 to 32 days in 1997.
11.  Inventory consists of materials and, according to the company, represents 90 days of supplies.
12.  Long term debt consists of debt belonging to loans contracted with CEF, FAE, and others with
more than 360 days maturity.
13.  equity investment from the state of Minas Gerais in COPASA is assumed to increase over the
period, according to its pluriannual State Government Plan, which defines the priorities for the water and
sanitation sector.
D. Water Companies Borrowing and Flnandng
14.  The proposed IBRD loan for COPASA, through the state government, amounts to US$69.7 million
equivalent borrowed over 15 years, including 5 years grace, at the bank variable rate of 7.73%. First
disbursement are expected during the fourth quarter of 1992, and first repayments dur.ng 1997.
Commitment fee: 0.75% of undisbursed balance.
15.  The non-project borrowing is: us$84.3 million equivalent rom CEF, and US$217.4 million
equivalent from FAE, borrowed over 25 year at 11 % (CEF) and 2.5% (FAE).
16.  The total investment costs are projected to include interest during construction on the IBRD, CEF
and FAE loans, and administrative costs of about 10% of total investment, which are capitalized
(representing physical improvements and other items allowed under Brazilian accounting standards).
These items are separated from physical investments.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
E. State and Municipal Finances
17.  The new Brazilian Constitution (1988) has increased states and municipalities participation in
federal tax revenues, and also their taxing powers, increasing at the same time their responsibilities in
provhiing urban infrastructure and public services. The result is a significant increase in the fiscal
autonomy of states and municipalities. However, it is still too early to evaluate the full benefits of this
redistribution of responsibilities among the different levels of government and the final outcome will
depend greatly on the present conditions of basic service infrastructure. the debt Dosition of each entity
and the management skills of local government organizations. Additionally, the constitution set limits to
state and local government direct cost expenditures.
18.  The increased municipal responsibilit'Is eover urban public transport, pre-scliool and elementary
education, preventive health care and lard use. At revenue level, the number of municipal taxes have
doubled from two (property and service taxes) to four: the urban property tax (IRTU); the excise tax on
services in a number of tertiary activities (ISS); a tax on property sales (ITBI) and a fuel tax. As a result,
the share of municipalities in total government revenues has more than doubled. However, in absolute
terms the effect was not as large as expected, due in large part to the recessive economic environment.
19.  The underpinning principle behind the new constitution is that public service provision to cities will
improve dramatically with an adequate public financial management of the increased revenue from taxes
and other contributions to the state and municipalities, and the imposed limits to expenses. Moreover,
recession and fiscal adjustment has also motivated central and state levels to accelerate the implementation
of the responsibilities assigned by the constitution to the municipalities. However, it is still uncertain
whether municipalities will have the capacity to assume the new responsibilities and to manage the new
resources efficiently and equitably.
F. States and Municipalities Budget
20.   State and municipal budget projections for 1992 are based on drafts sent for legislative approval
and rates of growth proposed for each state and municipality for period 1993-1996. State revenue depends
on 64% of the value added tax (ICMS), increasing from US$2.7 billion in 1992 to US$3.4 billion in
1997. Major sources for municipal income in Belo Horizorite and Contagem are indicated in the following
table.
Tax Instrument                   Belo Horizonte               Contagem
Value Added (ICMS)                       20%                        67%
Land and Property (IPTU) Service (ISS)            47%                        13%            l
21.  Direct cost expenses and debt service are very high, representing 49.6%, 58.6%, and 61%
respectively for the Minas Gerais state, and the municipalities of Belo Horizonte and Contagem.



- 62 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 10
22.   Municipal borrowing must meet the following three conditions: (i) total debt outstanding at any
one time must be less than 70% of the value of total revenues (both own taxation and traizfers) adjusted
for inflation; (ii) additional debt acquired in any one fiscal year shall not exceed 20% of total revenues;
and (iii) total debt service in any one year shall not exceed 15% of total revenues of the previous fiscal
G. COPASA Management ImproveFent Plan
23.   The fallowing plan has been agreed during Loan Negotiations:
Descri1'ion                 Units        1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
1. Install New Wate, Meters          000/year         84       84       84               84      420
2. Water Meter Repair                 000/mo           15      30       30       30      40
3. Energy Consumption                 Kwh/mr        0.712   0.705   0.698   0.698   0.684
4. Installation of Macrometers
4.1 RMBH                               No.             30      30       34                        94
4.2 Rest of State                      No.             25      25       25                         75
4.3 Pitometric Stations
4.4    in RMBH                         No.             50      50       63                        163
4.5    Rest                            No.            100      100      75                        275
5. Rehabilitation Works
5.1 Pumping Stations                   No.             20      20       24       26                64
S.2 Automation of Systems              No.             S0      50       50                        176
5.3 Storage Tanks                      No.             30      30       40                        100
5.4 Water Distribution Network         Km.             69     100      100                       269
5.5 Water Connections                  000              7       7        7                         21
5.6 Sectorization in Districts         No.              8       8        9                         25
6. SIGMA Project Implementation     No. districts       7       7        8                         12
7. Cadastre Expansion             000 connections     100     200      300      200     100      900
8. Collection Period                   Days            42      40       38      36       32
9. Marginal Cost Studies            No. systemtis      20      40
10. Tariff Restructuring                                     June
11. Unaccounted-for Water             Percent          36      34       32      31       30
12. Invoiced Water                    M/ms           680      722      767     815      865
13. Tariff Value for Water &          USS/mI         0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50    0 50
Sewerage by Year-end



- 63 -                                  ANNEX 11
Page 5 Of 10
Table 1
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS ANY) ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREA
COPASA Income Statement
USS 1000
PAST                                  PROJBCTED
199                    1992       1993        1994       1905        1996       1997
_                                                                                    ._~~~=1
Water Billed (Mm3)                    426,901    42E,813      44,846    465,664     485,302    505,79a     527,189    549,517
Sewage Billed (')                     188,272    190,155     198,944    208,283     213,216    223,788     240,053    252,054
Tariff -Water (USS/m3)            0.5495      0.4111     0.4907      0.5087     0.5087      0.5087     0.5087      0.5087
Tariff-Sewage (USS/m3)            0.4461      0.3793     0.4793      5.0000     0.5000      0.5000     0.5000      0.5000
Tariff (USS/m3)                   0.M1791    0.4013      0.4872      0.5060     0.5060      0.5060     0.5060      0.5060
perating Revenues                329,350    256,139    332,469    351,246    366,651    382,834    399,840    417,727
er                             234,600     176,264    219,250    236,874     246,864     257289     268,171     279,523
ewerage                            83,995     72,133      95,354    104,142     109,108    114,394     120,626_  126,032
)thers                             10,755      7,742       7,865     10,230      10,679     11,151      11,646      12,167
crating Expenses                222,418    179,770    190,324    198,606    205,185    211,798    218,450    225,209
ersonnel                          107,426 _   104,482    114,232    118,794     122,0711    125,339    128,590    131,844
laterials                           1,425     11,325      12,046     12,634      13,206     13,786      14.377     14,979
Chemicals                           3,124      1,754       1,902      1,943       1,984      2,024       2,062      2,102
Other Materials                    11,101      9,571      10,144     10,691      11,222     11,762      12,315      12,877
Third Parties                       56,166     49,784      53,394     55,649      57,861     60,085      62,338     64,642
__lectricity                      26,682      21,091     22,931      23,599     24,218      24,822     23,419      26,039
Other Third Parties               29,484      20,693     30,413      32,050     33,643      35,263     36,920      38,604
,eneral                            2,5441      1,988       2,107      2,221       2,331      2,4431      2,558      2,675
iscal                             42,0571     12,199       8,545      9,000 1     9,716f    10,145     110,595     11,069
eprecia tion and Provisions        28,329     74,910      79,440     91,719    104,833    114,625    121,964    130,861
eprecr & Prov. for Amort.          28,006     74,6931    73,642      90,841     103,916    113,668     120,9641   129,817
rovisions for a Bad Debt             323         222        806         878        9171        957       1,000|      1,044
crating Income                   78,603       1,446     52,697     60,921    5,633       56,411      59,421      61,657
t Non-Operating Expenses         44,165     48,438           0           0          0           0          0           0
t Financial Expense             (24,270)   (80,266)   (24,020)   (21,755)   (18,694)   (23,159)   (25,074)   (3S,465)
t Inflation Adjustment         (402,701)    77,651           0           0          0           G          0           0
. Pro-Tax Income                    (304,283)    47,269      28,677     39,166      37,939     33,252      33,547     26,192
. Net Income Tax Charge                   0       3,833           0          0           0          0           0          0
0. Net Revenue (Less)               (304,283)    43,436      28,677     39,166      37,939     33,252      33,547     26,192
S
rsating Ratio.                     0.76       0.991       0.81|      0.831       0.85|      0.85        0.85       0.85
L compliance)                      1.00       1.00         1.00       1.00       1.00        1.00,      1.00        I.1
,/Avg Net Fixed A Z;'; I   !       NA!        NA I        4.01        4.1         3.4        3.21 .2
Revalued Basis



- 64 -                                 ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 10
Table 2
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
COPASA Balance Statement
USS 1000
PAST                                   PROJECTED
19'90      19__        1192        1993        1994        199S        1996       1997
ASSETS                                 875,779  2,156,989  2,173,301  2,286,676  2,356,067  2,434,531  2,502,141  2,568.847
Current Assets                          49,679      78,313     75,734      78,553      80,215      81,943      83,743      85,619
Cash                                   ' 498       3,191      7,931       8,275       8,551       8,826       9,104       9,382
Net Accounts Receivable               30,148      32,306     26,066      23,373      29,637      30,946      32,320      33,767
Inventory                              5,635       4,091       3,012      3,158       3,302       3,446       3,594       3,745
Deferred Pymts. and Other              3,178      38,725     38,725      38,725      38,725      38,725      38,725      38,725
Shrot-Term Investment                     0           0           0           0           0           0           0
Long Term Assets                         3,457     136,873     136,873    136.873     136,873     136,873     136,873     136,873
Total Fixed Asets                      822,643   1,941,8031  i,960,6^4  2,071,252   2,138,979   2,215,715   2,281,525   2,846,355
Net Fixed Assets                       412,882   1,227,3981  1,398,167   1,580,796   1,802,098   1,801,135   1,883,905   1,942,557
Gros Fixed Assets                    527,192   1,666,740   1,913,774   2,183,679   2,504,347   2,612,891   2,0 11,194   2,993,486
Less: Acumulated Dep                 114,310    439,342     513,607     602,883     702,749     811,756     927,289   1,050,929
Work in Progress                       407,745 _ 711,364       552,808    401,476     329,920     408,214     393,0371    401,583
Others                                     106        213         213         213         213         213L        213        213
L- T Intengible Assets -                 1,910.      2,828      9,506       8,767       6,740       6,1531      4,370       2,002
IABILITIES &  EQUITY                  875,779  2,156,989  2,173,301  2,286,676  2,356,067  2,434,531  2,502,141  2,568,847
urrent Liabilities                   128,390     111,381      85,017 1    93,915      85,422      90,462     99,864      102,162
__  _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ ___    I   __  __   __ _  _ _   __ _  _ _   I    _ _   __ _             904I        99_,864.  __ _ _ _
Accounts Payable                      26,158 I    37,548      10,7581    25,002      21,300      23,440      22,893      24,425
__~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -t I                   I                  _
Current                               37,005      53,189 I    51,045|    44,739 1    39,119 #    41,2471    50,539       50,532
Suppliers and 3-d Part          |    33,147       21,644     23,214      24,174 1    24, )23 1    25,675     26,432      27,190
l   _  +  .   l   l           I       .   +__-    -__              ____
Total Long-Term Debt                   696,184     668,802     676,670,   719,394     759,339     799,5101   824,172      855,236
Less: Current Portio                  39,085      52,109     51,045      44,739      39,199      41,348      50,539      s0,539
t   I   .   I         I           t                       I   _   t
Total L-T Debt                       735,269     720,911   727,715      764,133 j   798,538     840,858     874,711     905,775
tf;I                                       559                         -------, I ____ _I--___
er L- T Liabilities                  3,028     181,559     181, 559     8,59       181,559     181,559     181,559     181,559
___________________            48,077   1,195.247   1,2-30,0551    i XS   i,329,747   1,363,000   1,396.546   1,439,890



- 65 -                                  ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 10
Table 3
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
COPASA Flow of Funds
__ _________________________ _      ________.___                                                                    USS     1000
PAST                                   PROJECTED
1990o 1   1991       1992        1993        1994        1995        1996       1997
TOTAL SOURCES                          222,325    230,412    192,242    261,812    239,693    251,599    255,586    280,230
nternal Sources                       138,124      64,836     131,339     151,763     160,549    170,080     180,385     191,475
Net Inc. (Loss) after Tax           (278,706)     43,436     28,677      39,163      37,939      33,253      33,547      26,193
Plus:
Depreciation                         25,653      74,693     78,642      90,840     103,916     113,668     120,964     129,817
Net Financial Fxpenses               22,231      24,358     24,020      21,755      18,694      23.159      25,074      35,465
Monetary Corection                  360,947      77,651          0           0           0                       0
Other                                    0           0           0           0           0           0           O
xternal Sources                        39,066     77,074      54,772      87.463      79,144      81,5191    75 ,201      81,604
CEF                                    1,723      56,713     24,305      38,740      22,420      29,952      32,403      46,147
FAE                                   34,507      20,361     29,967      31,667      32,521      32,624      34,006      35,45
_   _      _      ___     ._                __           __                _ _ ._            __ I_                 T___
IBRD                                      0           0           0      17,056      24,203      18,943       8,712
Other            _                     2,836 0_                   0           0           0           0           o
Equity                                  34,033      88,470       3,915          0           0           0           0       7,151
Federal Gov.                      |         0          32       2,216      22,536           0           0           0
Other Liab. Increase                    11,1021         0 j         0  Oj                   0 _         0 _         0___ ;
__ _     _  __   __                   _  _ __       __ _   __ _  _ _   _ _  _ _0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                     222,325    230,412    192,242    261,812    239,693    251,599    255,586    280,230
_      _  _ _ _ -_   _ _  _ _      _ _ _   __ _  ___         _ _     -904 3F
Capital Expenditure                    179,374   104,125|    97,534       201,397     171,6444    190,403     106,775     194.647
Proposed Project                          0 °     87,961     33,109     134,926     154,623|   171,044      165,770     177
Other Investments                    179374           0           0            0'         0' j        ol          0
Int. During Const.    C                   0 -    6,3501       4,513 |     6,4601      6,910|      9,14                    6
Cap 'd Admin. Costs                       0        9,8141      9,912     10,011!    10,111       10,213 |    10,3151    10,418
(Inc.)/ Dec in Working Cap.             (3,920)     58,749.     22,639     (12,385)     4,6161     (1,163*      1,589'       (421)
Debt Service                            46,871      6?    7     2 36       72 800      63 4331    62 3 r7
Cash beginning Year               |      4,491       5,497       3,1921     7,9301      8,2751      8,549!      8,825 1     9,102
____~     ~ ~       ,06                             ____ 2- ___!  |  '_- t---    '   I_    ' __, __ _-
CAsh in Year          !_1,006 1                     (2,305      4,738!        345         274         276         2771       232
Cash End Year                     |      5497        3,1921     7,930,      8,2751      8,5491      8,825!      9,102       9,384



- 66 -                                            ANNEX 11
Table 4                          ~Page 8 of 10
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS INTIHE
BELO HORIZONTE METrROPOLITAN AREAS
State of Minn Gerais
Income Statement 1990 - 1997
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~PAST                                                           PROJ'ECTED
t"O    I    1"I   1992         I993         t994   I 195             1996         1997
Own Iacono
Trax Income                             3,323,771    2,929,863    3,267,955    3,412,330    3,594.575    3,778,235    3.987.1777F4,225,085
icms                                  3,257,741    2,826,905    3,141,803    3.280,843    3,456,066 f3,632,649    3,834,1171  4.06221~
Other,                                   66,030     102,958      126,1.51    131,486      138,508      145,585      153,660f    162,804i
Other Income                              523,155     329,992      251,171      261,793     275,774      289,865      305.825     32 3.990
Federal Transfers                         954,722     928,412      930,091      961,692    1,003,044.t  1,055,405    1,106,958    1,171,028:
F.P.E.                                250,447      186,925      292,792     302,609.    315,4501I   331,937       348.048      368,193
I.R.R.F.                               168,490     163,203      127,337     131,607      137,1921    144,362       151,368,   160,129
Education Salary                       63,980       54,793       59,218      61,204       63,801 1     67,135       70,394      7446
Export Fund                           225,415.   172,687        163,125     168,595      175.749      184,934      193,910J    205.133 
Other Tranfers                         4,8         350,804      287,6181I   297,677      310,8521    327,037      343,238     363,104
Sub -Total                           -4,801,6481  4,188,267j  4,449,2171 j4635,814    4.873,3931j  5,123,504 ~5,400,560    5,720.102
Credits                                   445.197     744,4611    715,408       268,207     294,017     397,087       361.3521   533,189
Domestic                          J    383,663      688.589     565,100      197,342      182,3571  287.247        2945         4906
Bonds                                287,787      454,255     541,871      197,342      182.3571  287,247        297.452   499,.064,
Other            ____   ___           95,875      234.334       23,229           0                        0___    }____  ___ 
Foreign         _________               61,53        55,872      150,308 I    70.865      111,660      109,840      63,900-      3 4,125 
Exudting Contracts                                 55,872      47,1701           0            01          0            0            o
Anticipsted Contracts  ____                    _____           13131        7.j 111,660              109,840 [    63,900       34,1125
Total Income          J~~~~5!'4' I ~4,932.728J 1 5164.623  4 ,904,021   5.167,410  5,52051    5,761,911   6.2.53,291
Expenditmres_ _ _ __                                                          _ _ __           _ _
Curfrent Expnditures                    4,162,6921  3,738.754~ 3,695,368    3,770,590 __396_ 17_419_3__- 4,40,82____6_ ,8-0
Operating Expenditures       ~2,007,988    2.674,251    2,610,365    2,632,260    2,767.094    2,909,114    3.066.408    3.247,888
Personnel                             1,707,745    2,072,227    1,99,3      2.8.4 2,0,7'               24,242031  2,660,686    2,818,154.
~Other                                   300,243,    602,024      617,329      348.280      366,120     384,911 I    40.5,723     429,734
~Current Transfers                       2,14,04         4,503___  1,085,02    1,1339       1.194,085 p1,289,621  11.339.415    1,4 24.002
Debt_____________                       228,622      278.643     204,845      221___804    230,612 , 276.698        271.724     2,9 3,12 2
Other                                1,926,083     785,860      876,158 i    916,525 p    963,473    1,012,923    1,067,691    1,1 30.880
Capital Expenditures                    2,058,906    1.109,405    1,387,418    1,060.9791   1,023,4031  1,222,796~  1,206.594    1.514.589
Investment                           I 384,683        140.2D9      208,239j    277,125      291.321      306,4734306.57
Capital_Transfers                         391,438 I   636,530      722,487 I   368,164      295,100 I    457.113 I    440.158     659,741
Amoonization                           3M30 38      613 i102    683,05C      277,935      250,131     414,437 '    42',775      647,8226
Other          ________                 61,0491      22,9281     39,431       90,230       44,970      42,676'      12.384       11,914
other Capia Exedtrs1,282,78                           332,666      456,692     415,690      436,982      459,410 I    459,862     5 12,90 9
___________________________          84.568     ~~~81,8331    7,5          8,          99,060 I    149,494       66.812
Total  xenditresa                      6,221,599                    4 ,3,2  .14625   4,904,021   5,167,410  53,520,591   5,761,911   6,2.53,.291-



- 67 -
ANNEX 11
Table 5                         Page 9 of 10
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONE METROPOLITAN AREA
Projected Income and Expenditures, 1990 - 1997
_____    __________  _______________   _________________________________________USS 1000
PAST   _TPROJ BCThD
t  99        191 i          i99     1    99m          1994         1995   _I1996             1997
E                           336473       322848       542572       570-460      576164       581925       587747       593623
incom                          1326941      162030       262474       298646       301632       304648       307695 [     310772
ICMS                              28961        61411        97006       131523       132838       134166       135508       136863
TSS                               713           24          018         107199       108271       109354       110448       111552
32497        380"'       59330         59924       60523        61128        61739        62357
me                 ~~~~~~43495   202Z7        42701        43128        43559        43995        44435        44379
'ansfers                   38104        34731        56215        79239        800321       80832        81641 1      82457
~~~~~~~28996                     23234        37415        60251        60854        61463        62077        62698
~~~~~                           ~~~9082  11497  18787      18975        19165        19356        19550        19745
Transfers                      26            0           13            13 [13                   13            141          14
nsfers                     122180       105830       181182       149447t      150941       152450       153976~   155515
110527       85446       150018       117971!      119151       120342       121546       122761
_____           ~~~~11653     14839        25972        26232        26494        26759        27027        27297
Fund                           C         5545         5192         5244         5296         5349         5403         5457
ier                                 0            0            0            0            0            0            01           0
Operatiors                     6004        42419       127152          8243        9761         6473          2443            -0
)m es: ic                           6004        42419       102859             0            0            0            0'           O
reign                                   0            0       24293         8243         9761         6473~ 2440
her                                 9515         7915       154779            0l           0             0     ~     01     
otal Income                       351992       373182       824503       5787031    585925,        5883981      5919          936231
XPENDJITURES                       292844       302025 -427100            403162       412129       415103       418054       421024
_pera~tin J-Repditures             259043       261483       3708761      359590       363186       366818       370486       341!
Personnel        _ ___           215414       198598       260671       263278       265911       2685701 -   2712*56~   2739681
Other            _     __         43629        62885 __110205            96312        97275        98248        99230       1002231
urrent TIransfers  _____            33801        40542        56224        43572        48943        482851       47568'       463
Debt               ____           26144        40542        28537        15109        19506        18010 -      167341       151
O.the r ___7657                                    0        27687        28463~   29437            302751       30834   -   31214i
-pital Exp niue    ___-            107587       140113       397403[      1755411      173796~   1732951         172136~   1725991
iestments                         100578       133584,    3722351    148807           151892       149562       1514021    142542'~
Apital Transfers      ___6827                      42471j    17285          18772        13863        15611        12531t       21772w
Amnoritization    ___6803                       42471        16884        18367        13454       15198 _       12114       21351
Other                       1         24            0   _      401          405          409          413          41~          421~
ther CaitlExpenditures                182         222          7883   -   7962i          8041 -       8122 ~    8203 ~    8285
otal Expendituen1                   ___         ___        __5703                     5859251    588398         590190:      593623



- 68 -                                     ANNEX 11
Table 6               ~~Page io of 10
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Municipality of Contagemn
Projected Income and Expenditures 1990 - 1997
_________________________________  _______________________USS 1000
PAST            [PROJECThD                                        _____
119           1991        1992        1993  11994   1    1995              1996        1997
INCOME                                   81.788      67,175      82,657       78,609      79,226      82.900      87,027       91,660
Tax Income                     12~~~~~,28  1013         9,829      10,173       10,5291    10,898   11,7            11,674
ICMS                                   2,281       1,93!'      1,853 I      1,917       1,98      2,054         2,126       2,201
155                                    7,010       5,004       5,389 I      5,578       5,773       5,975       6,184       6,400
Others                                 2,994       3,210       2,587       2,678        2,771 [     2,8691      2,969  __
Other Income                              9,086       2,962       13,883       3,897       3,897       3,897       3,897  __
Fede'al Transfers                         5,096       8,540        7,947      11,297       8,7361      9,182       9,6871__
FPM                                    3,170        4,188       4,210       4,395,      4,628       4,864        5,132 ___
IRRF                                   1,381        1,3261      1,347       1,4061      1,480        1,555 ____1__641 __
Other Transfers                          545        1,7131      1,689       4,763       1,85          ,51        208
~~~~~~                                               ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~1,313 1 701  733  772  812  8561
State Transfers                         5. ,32i £    45,520       50,998      53,2421£   56,064       58,923      6,6
JCMS                                  5,62"A       44,844      50,525      52,748,    55,544,    58,377         611,588~    6.:
IPVA                     _ __13                      646         4551         475        SO00__   5251            554.
Export Fund                               0o      _ _ _   _ _ _      I              _ _         _ _ _ _
Other                                  3,559          30           1            9          20    ~     211         22
Credit Operations                            6           0L      14,0344      6,066          0~                       01
Domestic             _ _ _61 , 3 '                                             6,066             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Foreign                                       o                _  __         _   _     _  _  _       _  _  _   _  _  _ _  _     _ _
O ther                   -      -10             _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ __                                 _ _   _ _
Trotal Income-                           81_______   S ,804 1   67,175  96,69:1 : 4,67S5  79aib26L82.90 U0       87,027      91,660
EXPENDITURES                   ___       56,398      51,726      51,448       63,009      66,021      69,084      72,522      76,3
[pperctijEx  enditures          -         45,3591T   38,460       44,37 F    50,407        5,1         55,267;     58,018 __
Persnnel26,686                                     29,2841     24,5801    30,2444         ,         33.160      34.811
Other                                18,67t       9:176;      19,793      20,163{     21,127      22,107      23,207    24
I Cur'ent Transfers                       11,0391    13 266'       7,075,    12,602j       13,2041 13,817          14,504      15
Debt        ________                  1,9031      6,2941   4,330           1,3221      1,211      _1,097         981~
9,31  6,972j 2__    7451_   11,280       11,9931      1,2         1,2
Capital Expenditures                    22_652      15,449       44,381      18,666 ___13,2051I   13,816          14,505
Investments                              20,677      13.794~    42,087'       17:004~    11,517!    12,10)0    1j2,786__
Capital Transfers            __           1,936!      1,655        2,243       1,637       1.663       1,691       1,694  __
Amnorivization          ____           1,916~   1,651           1-,590,     1,637       1,663       1,691       1,694:
Other         --j                         20           4 t       651 ___    __-
Other Cpia Expenditures                      39J                    861          25                  __25
TotlExenditures                      79,050'   67,175        96,691      81,675       79,226      82,900      87,0271I  91,660



- 69 -
ANX 12
BRAZIL         Page 1 of .1
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND
POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
'~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 70 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 11
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROGRAM OF THE ARRUDAS WATERBASIN
1. Presentation
1.1    The envir-)nmental sanitation program in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area consists of projects
and works of channelization of mdcro drains and urbanization (including potable water and paved streets)
of the surrounding areas, sewerage (sewers, interceptors and sewage treatment plants), solid waste
collection and disposal (equipment and landfills), environmental recuperation and preparation of an
environmental management plan.
1.2    The participants in this program are:
* the IBRI)
*   the Minas Gerais State Government
e   the Minas Gerais Water Utility (COPASA)
i   the State Environmental Agency (FEAM)
the Belo Horizonte Municipality, and
t the Contagem municipality
1.3    The project includes the following sub-projects:
Drainage
*   channelization and urbanization of the Arrudas River
*   channelization and urbanization of the Sarandi River
*   channelization and urbznization of the Ferrugem Creek, and
c channelization and urbanization of the Onga River
Sewerage
*   sewers, main collectors and connections in the On,a basin
*   interceptors in the Arrudas basin
*   interceptors in the Sarandi basin
*   interceptors in the On,a basin
*   sewage inversion in the Vargem d,s Flores basin
*   sewage treatment plant in the Arrudas basin
*   sewage treatment plant in the Onga basin
Solid Wastes
*   improvements in solid waste collection systems in the municipalities of Belo Horizonte and
*   sanitary landfill in the Perobas-Contagem area



- 71 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 11
Urbanization
* urbanization of the A.rudas valley in Belo Horizonte and Contagem
*   Pampulha ecological park
*   environmental protection in Vargem das Flores
Environmental Management
*   studies on environmental recuperation and management in Das Velhas River
*   environmental education
*   industrial pollution control
*   institutional strengthening of FEAM
2. Project Objectives
2.1    The principal project objectives are:
*   the improvement of standards of living of the population by recuperating the existing
deteriorated environniesnal conditions the recuperation of water quality in Vargem das
Flores and the preservation of this water body as one of the main water supply sources for
metropolitan Belo Horizonte
i   improvements in the hydraulics of macro drainage and the resulting expansion of water uses
*   elimination of disposal of hazardous wastes, both domestic and industrial
*   improvements in planning urban and industrial expansion in the area
*   the establishment of efficient sustainable environmental management
2.2    The above objectives would be attained through the following project components: (i) drainage;
(ii) municipal and industrial sewage waste water; (iii) solid wastes; (iv) environmental recuperation; and,
(v) environmental management.
2.3    The drainage project component consists of the completion of channelization and the construction
of roads along the channels. The execution of these project components will permit: (i) the provision of
basic sanitary services in the vacated areas; (ii) the collection of solid wastes and the elimination of
dumps; (iii) flood control; (iv) appreciation of property value; (v) alternatives for public transportation
routes; and (vi) erosion control.
2.4    The sewerage and sewage treatment component includes the construction of interceptors along
both the Arrudas and da Onga rivers, which will stop the discharge of raw sewage. These interceptors
will send the sewage to two treatment plants located at the mouth of both rivers, before their discharge
into the das Velhas River. The plants will be built only with primarv treatment, including sedimentation
and conditiening and disposa! of sludge, as a first stage to secondary treatment. The primary treatment
will help improve pollution levels in the das Velhas river. Other sub-projects will consist of the
interception of sewage discharges to the vargem aas riores reseLvUi., wh;.his rva  of *aA , EUr-r-"-
sources of Belo Horizonte, and the pumping of those volumes of sewage to the Arrudas water basin
sewerage system. The execution of this sub-project will permit the preservation of a water source



- 72 -
.ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 11
estimated at 1,400 I/s, able to provide services to a population of 400,000. The above sub-projects follow
the sewerage master plan prepared by consultants (SEEBLA) in 1980, with a design horizon to 2000 and
comprising the whole metropolitan area. The master plan also contains an evaluation of the impact of
waste water discharges on the rivers.
2.5    The extension of solid wastes collection services to marginal areas surrounding the water bodies,
will permit the elimination of obstructions in the drainage system and of hazardous dumpings in densely
populated areas. The project also includes better control of nuisanmces at disposal sites and of lechates.
2.6    The environmental recuperation component will provide for expanded green recreational areas
along the rivers, the installation of the Pamnpulha ecological park in an existing island in the Pampulha
reservoir and protection areas for water sources in Vargem das Flores.
2.7    The environmental management project component will provide for studies and establishment of
systems for water quality and pollution control, and will include, inr-Ai, the followirng: (i) studies
conducive to a management plan for the das Velhas river (it includes the inventory of pollution sources,
as well as recommendations for their abatement and control); (ii) environmental education; and (iii)
industrial pollution control comprising inventory, abatement plans, monitoring and control.
3. The Project Environmental Impact
Introduction
3.1    The analysis starts with the identification and preliminary evaluation of all possible impacts on
environment by each project component, and for both the implementation and operation stages. Impacts
selected as relevant are evaluated in para.3.9.
Prelimianry Evaluation ot Impacts
3.2    The identification of impacts results from the analysis of interrelations among project components,
during implementation and operation, with physical, biotic and socio-economic environmental factors.
Impacts are classified as relevant, negligible and non-existent. The following paragraph contain a
summary of the preliminary evaluation.
Channelization, Urbanization and Interception
3.3    With few exceptions, brazilian cities grew without any medium- and long-term planning.
Migration to cities in Brazil has been intense, especially during the last two decades, when
industrialization took place. The cities have been unable to accompany this expansion with the required
infrastructure. Housing projects are usually built in areas with favorable topography, leaving areas
requiring more conditioning work, especially close to water bodies. As migrant pressure for housing
continues and property prices rise, migrants occupy vacant areas with shanty towns (favelas). These areas
grow without the minimum infrastructure required for hygienic or health reasons. The above process
applies to Belo Horizonte and Contagem, which are part of a metropolitan area of about 2.6 million
innabitants.



- 73 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 11
3.4    Although Belo Horizonte was projected to be the capital of Minas Gerais, in the initial planning
stages there were no guidelines for eApansion that surpassed the first forecasted region that was limited
to the planned beltway. The dynamics of the occupation and growth process is that population growth
was superior to what was originally planned. Only after the 1970's was the Law for the Use and
Occupation of the Soil (Lei de Uso e Ocupagao do Solo) put into affect in Belo Horizonte. Contagem was
planned as an industrial city. However, as was the case in Belo Horizonte, the infrastructure planned in
the original design was not able to accommodate the accelerated growth of the cicy.
3.5    The works of channelization, urbanization and interception being proposed, will cause impacts
that are highly relevant to the socio-economic conditions of the region, to the degree in which already
existing distortions will be corrected. This goes beyond effectively contributing to the sanitation of the
region and will substantially contribute to the improvement of standards of living of the population. The
works In the drains will basically consist of the earthworks, landfills, concrete structures, installation of
pipes, paving of roads and wal' ways, and landscaping. In the bulldozing phase of the project, the
necessary excavations will be rnade to divert the flow of water, as well as for the construction of a canal.
These excavations will be done with a bulldozer, with the excavated material being recycled In various
other areas, such as embankments, landfills, filling in walkways and in areas where erosion has occurred.
The un-recycled material will be considered trash and will be transported to areas approved by inspection.
The bulldozing is limited to ares that will not interfere with the neighborhood. Works of this type
generate a great deal of noise and dust, and an increase in traffic, all which tend to, without fall,
inconvenience the neighboring population. In the case where the project is being implemented concerning
the Arrudas and Onca rivers (the regions most densely populated that would require the relocation of
residences), the impacts caused by the bulldozing may be considered insignificant in view of the fact that
the impacts would occur- in the areas of work, would be temporary and would be accompanied by
measures that lessen the bad side effects such as: (a) aspersion of the working areas, (b) operating the
tractor only during daylight hours; and, (c) keeping the public informed about eventual trouble, that is,
the interruption of the supply of basic services, blockage of routs, traflic alterations, etc. The impact
resulting from works in the Sarandi creek will be minimized to a great extent due to the fact that the
residential dwellings are as far as 100 meters from the banks of the water line. The building of concrete
structures result in very localized jobs such as carpentry framing and filling, which will not produce any
hardship to the neighbors. The sewage pipe installation, laying of pavement, and landscaping will be
restricted to areas thai are already levelled and, as in other projects, will be accompanied by steps to keep
their eventual impacts to a minimum. Still in the works phase, the opening of new sourc;es of jobs,
principally those of unskilled manual labor, will constitute proJect impacts that are highly positive. The
results of the analysis of the interrelation between the various undertakings in the physical, biotic and
socio-economics conditions, in areas both directly and indirectly affected are in Project Files. The
relevant impacts appear principally in the socio-economic conditions, specially related to the relocation
of families in the area, because they represent a radical transformation of the current situation.
Environmental Protection and the Vargem das Flores Sewerage Component
3.6    The installation of a sewerage system in Vargem das Flores or more specifically, Sector 1, the
urban center of Contagem, together with the Environmental Protection Program, will be decisive in the
attainment of positive objectives or rather better health conditions for the population and the preservation
of the water quality of the reservoir, the largest public water supply in the area. Other related benefits
are the increase of the useful life of the reservoir, the enhancement of existing parks in the area, the
creation of new recreational areas and the reduction in expenses of chemicals tor water treatment. No



- 74 -
A-NEX 12
Page 6 of 11
negative impacts to environment or major disruption in the life of the population resulting from these
works are expected. The works for the establishment of a sewage pumping system are composed basically
of excavations and the re-filling of ditches for the installation of pipes with diameters less than 600 mm,
and civil work for the construction of three booster stations. The pipes will be laid in public grounds,
and, in order to keep disruptions to a minimum, it will be necessary to adopt certain measures throughout
which normally are implemented with works of this sort.
Improvements in Solid Waste Systems
3.7    The lack of adequate infrastructure for the collection and disposal of solid wastes in urban areas,
principally in the peripheric areas, has caused the general population to seek alternatives, which are not
always appropriate. For example, it has meant the use of the banks of the waterways for the disposal of
trash. The project provides for improvements in the collection, the installation of additional units in the
BRO40 landfill and the establishment of a system for the inspection of irregular trash disposal by the
population. The last one will have an important impact on the quality of water of nearby water bodies.
As can be seen in the preliminary impact identification matrix, the implementation of this project does
not give rise to greater consequences in the physical and biotic conditions.
Sewage Treatment at the Onga Basin
3.8    The plant, containing installations for primary treatment, consists of civil works structures,
basically including bulldozing, construction of concrete tanks and buildings for the administration,
maintenance, a warehouse and a laboratory, installation of electro-mechanical units and equipment for
the dehydration of sludge, urbanization of surrounding areas, construction of roads and sidewalks, the
planting of grass and trees, and the installation of drainage. Due to the topographic characteristics of the
area, the bulldozing or levelling of the land will consist of the excavation and refilling a small space,
restricted to the expropriated area, with earth. The other phases of the works will restrict themselves to
activities in the area of the STS, where the impacts caused noise, dust, etc, wont surpass their limits.
Still, the isolated locale of the STS, outside the city limits, contributes to the fact tuhat the socio-economic
disruptions will be negligible. A positive impact will take place from the resulting demand of labor which
is usually available in the areas surrounding the works. The sewerage treatment plant will be built in an
area that has already been subject to a radical transformation of the natural ecosystem. The flora and
fauna no longer represent the original ecosystem which now predominantly consists of exotic vegetation
of grasses and eucalyptus and exotic species of birds. Finally, as has been anticipated, the adoption of
mitigating measures during the works, together with efficient supervision, will guarantee the minimization
of eventual impacts. In the operational phase of the Onga STS, relevant impacts will take place in water
quality of the Onga and das Velhas rivers.
Solid Wastes of Contagemn-Collection Improvements and Sanitary Landfill
3.9    The situation of the collection and final dumping of solid waste in Contagem is much more
precarious than that in Belo Horizonte. The proposed improvements to the system consist of studies and
planning of a comprehensive solution to collect urban and industrial solid wastes in Contagem, including
the extension of collection to new areas and the installation of the Perobas landfill and the disactivation
of the existing dump in the area of CINCO. As is shown in the table, disruptions produced by these sub-
projects are con.idered negligible for the following reasons: the works. restricts itelf tA the Dernbhc
landfill, which (i) is outside the urban parameters, (ii) covers a small area, which is owned by the



- 75 -
ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 11
municipality, and, (iii) the vegetation of which has already been decharacterized by previous activities
in the region. After saturation, the area will be upgraded and permitted to be used for recreational
purposes.
Ecological Park at Pampulha
3.10   The Pampulha ecological park is made up of a small island in the reservoir, out of a group which
will be made compatible to the various uses that have been anticipated. In this way, the existence of
areas for recreation, sports and culture, as proposed in the project, should not hurt the habitat for animals
and vegetable species. As shown in the table, the establishment of an ecological park in Pampulha
influences in a relevant manner the structure of recreation and tourism in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan
area. The works for the adaption of the islands should come mainly from planting of vegetation and the
construction of infrastructure for recreation, including an aquarium, and administration. These works of
small volume, will not cause great impacts on the local environment.
4. Impact Assessment.
Criteria
4.1   In this section, the environmental impacts which have been classified as relevant in the previous
section will be evaluated. The evaluation takes into consideration direct (ED) as well as indirect impacts
(El), and their origins, amplitude, duration, reversibility and importance. In accordance with its nature
the impact is positive (P) or negative (N). In accordance with its frequency: temporary (T), permanent
(P) or cyclic (C); with duration: short (CP), medium (MP) or long (LP); with reversibility, reversible
(RE) or irreversible (IR); with place of occurrence, regional (R), local (L) or strategic (E); and with
importance, hign (A), medium (M), or small (B)
C:hannelization, Urbanization and Interception
4.2    The impact of these investment projects on water and soil is relevant as the projects are located
in major urbanized areas. The operational phase, which is of a positive nature, refers to the implantation
of the tasks, and maintenance and clean up activities involved. In the case of the Sarandi creek, its
drainage system and interception will perceptively improve the quality of the aquatic ecosystem in the
Pampulha reservoir, which is the receiver of the respective creek. In the same way, the maintenance and
clean up operations will guarantee the adequate 'nctioning of a given task, as well as all other related
improvements. Planned investment will also ensure maintenance of water quality in the da Onca river.
The impact of all these investments is highly positive, as they will promote substantial improvements in
quality of life of the population, especially with reference to land occupation, urban infrastructure and
health. The transformation of a deteriorated environment, with unsanitary condi:ions, into a well serviced
area, will bring clear appreciations to property, and in turn, added wealth to the settlers. Where there
is the expectation that an area is moving towards a better standard of living in respect to goods and
services, commercialization, and construction, new business are attracted to the area and existing business
experience increases. This is yet another positive impact that these new endeavors can generate. With
respect to the employment situation, there will be group of jobs created by the rew works, which is a
pcs,itve asp;i, hiweve1i, V ivwn tinir unaraciur, ihre jobs will be empoiariy, au will likely provoke a
negative impact when it comes to the demobilization of manual laDbr at the end of the contract. The



- 76 -
ANNEX 12
Page 8 of 11
combination of the improvements will, in the long-run, have a very positive impact on the population
benefitted by the undertakings. These undertakings will call for the relocation of fam.lies that live along
the riverbank, which will be evaluated separately. The expropriation of areas of risk, subject to floods,
and aiming at the sanitation and rectification of its unlawful use, has positive value. However, this
resettlement has a negative impact in the short-run because of the hardship that represents to the itnvolved
population. In the medium- and long-term, the nature of the impact varies in function with the procedures
adopted during the process of resettling these families. In the case of resettlements taking place in the
areas surrounding the Arrudas and On;a rivers, there are complete studies and resettlement plans made
by SUDECAP and URBEL In Belo Horizonte, and by SUDECOM, in Contagem, that follow procedures
and guidelines that, if properly executed, monitored and supervised will help substantially recduce the
negative Impacts of these actions. In accordance with the project, the familile are to be resettled into the
same neighborhood, In surplus areas resulting from expropriated land, In oetter, new houses. More
importantly, however, they will keep the same neighbors, jobs, and access to goods and services-schoo;
for their children, health centers, transport systems-overything to which they are already accustomed.
The same procedures are foreseen for industrial and commurcial units, which are entitled to the
ec'preclation in value of the lots in the areas destined to be rosettlod.
Improvements In the Solid Wutes Collection System In Belo Horizonte
4.3.   The Impact on water quality resulting from  improvements in the above system, which includes
the elimination of uncontrolled dumps in the streets and close to the water bodies, will be relevant and
positive. The usual practice In the whole country is the indiscriminatory disposa1 of solid waste in low-
lands and river banks. Such activity, aside from being a significant aesthetic aggression, constitutes a
great haad to water quality, whether it is from suspended solids entering the water, or principally, from
bacterial contamination. The implementation of this program will permit a subtle improvement to these
undesirable conditions. In the socio-economic side, this project prasents only positive aspects that are
ultimately linked to the sanitation and infrastructure conditions O-at, in themselves, help improve the level
of health of the population.
Improvernents In the Solid Wastes System of Contagem
4.4.   The impact of this project on the socio-economic conditions of the population is highly positive,
as it will help improve existing sanitary conditions and, in turn, the conditions of hygiene and health of
the population. It is worth mentioning, however, that the establishment of a sanitary landfill in the
neighborhood of Perobas will push djown property values in the area. In the medium term, if the landfill
is not properly operated, there will be nuisances resulting from odors, and possibly rodents and insects.
In order to minimize these risks, the project provides for planned, efficient operation and hedges of trees.
With relation to water contamination, in the operational phase the relevant impact refers to the treatment
of leachate, preventing this polluting material from contaminating the sources of ground and surface
water. Finally, the future re-utilization of the area of the landfill as a natural municipal park, with the
recovery of native vegetation constitutes a positive impact relevant to the population that will benefit from
the establishment and maintenance of one more green area in the city.



- 77 -
ANNEX 12
Page 9 of 11
Vargem das Flores
4.5.   The intense occupation of this valley has substantially affected the ecosystem which, however,
may be recovered. To the north and north-east of the basin, there is accelerated erosion in deteriorated
soils. The project provides for the recovery of eroded areas as well as for other areas which will be easily
eroded. The impact of this component on environment will be positive and relevant. The water body
will be protected by these actions, as well as by the collection, interception and pumping of sewage
outside the basin, the control of agro-chemicals, and the control and maintenance of green areas. In case
these investments are not made, the maintenance of the water body as supplier for Belo Horizonte will
become questionable. The impact on socio-economic conditions is indirect and positive. As soon as the
area is recovered, it can be effectively used for housing and recreation in a sustainable way.
Sewage Treatnent in Onoa
4.6.   In the implantation phase of the project, the urbanization-planting of grass on the slopes and the
areas outside the works-will turn into a positive impact on the local physical medium, minimizing the
impacts resulting from the bulldoing works which could promote suspended solids in the Onca river.
The paving of roads and the establishment of the drainage system also will help help prevent the
occurrence of more erosion and its ruinous effects. In the operational phase of the project, the principal
impact consists of the discharge of treated sewage in the river. This discharge is not expected to
dramatically change the deteriorated conditions of the existing Onca flow. Another impact of the project
is that resulting from the maintenance and cleanup, transport of solid waste and organic matter in the
water bodies. Still, this is just a periodic occurrence of short duration. The construction of the sewage
treatment plant in the Onga will constitute a positive impact in the socio-economic conditions of the
population especially in employment, as new jobs will be gen,rated. On the other hand, the negative
impacts will be the demobilization of manual labor at the termination of the project.
The PampulLa Ecological Park
4.7.   As was previously mentioned, the relevant in-tpacts of the establishment of the Pampulha
Eco!ogicI P-ark are related to the biotic medium and socio-economic conditions. In reference to the
biotic medium, or terrestrial ecosystem, the implantation of woods with areas for the development of
native plants and surroundings favorable to fauna typical to the area constitutes a highly positive impact
for the area. The socio-economic conditions will be improved as the park will constitute a contribution
for the well being of the population and an instrument for the ecological awareness of society.
5. Mitigating Measures
Introduction
5.1    Now that impacts caused by the diverse undertakings are identified and evaluated, we are going
to propose in the next paragraphs measures to minimize negative impact and to maximize the positive
ones, for bolh the implementation and operation phases. Some measures are general in character, and
can be applied to each undertaking, whereas others are specific for each project according to the
peculiarities of each environmental factor involved.



- 78 -
ANNE, 13X,
Page lO of il
General Mitigating Measures
5.2.   In analyzing the diverse environmental factors affectod in the implartation phase, the followinw
mitigating measuies are anticipated: (i) that when the bulldozing works are executed, vegetation be
planted as soon as possible in order to avoid the possibility of erosion and consequently the clogging of
drains; (ii) that all trash and waste from the works be properly disposed of in apprnpriate places; (iii) the
places where earth has been excavated be recomposed and protected; (iv) regenerate the~ natural soil
cover; (v) limiting the deforestation (arborous, undert .sh and grass shavings) to the minimum necessary
only in areas to be levelled or occupied by the undertakings, allowing for the regeneration of the
vegetation in the rest of the area. (vi) instituting measures for protection against fires, proceeding with
the clearing of the surroundings so that fires do not spread; (vii) that the areas be maintained cleaned b)
street cleaners, in order to avoid the formation of dust and the resulting hazards to the  population close
to the works; (viii) plan working hours so that the machines that make the most noise be operated only
during daylight hours, especially when works are being conducted near houses; (ix) avoid the transport
of materials during rush hours; (x) -iaintain adequate signs, both during the day and at night in order to
avoid the occurrence of accidents in the areas where the works are being pertormed; (xi) establish a line
of communication with the existing population in the areas of the projects in order to keep them informed
of any possible problems, such as the interruption of the energy and/or drinking water supply, the
blockage of local traffic routes, alterations in bus nhedules, etc; and (xii) finally, keeping all surveillance
works in order so that they are able to execute the recommendations anticipated, thus guaranteeing the
minimization off all eventual impact during the implantation phase of the undertakings.
Specific Measures
5.3.   As follows: (i) in relation to the channelization, urbanization and interception in Arrudas and
Onga rivers: (a) the completion of a complete cadastre of all the families being resettled; (b) the
discussion and agreement with the families that are to be resettled on the most adequate afternative
satisfying their preferences; (c) the planning and detailing of the provisions to be made for the
expropriations and  resettlements, taking special consideration for schedules of Dreparation and
implementation of the works; (d) establish contracts vith NGOs and/or leaders of the communities
anticipating a better appreciation together with the preoccupation, needs, and Pnxieties of the affected
population, utilizing these contacts as a medium of communication between the community and the
projects; and, (e) if there is to be temporary housing, establish the duration time and the conditions in
which this will be processed, fixing a date when the families could move back into their permanent
houses; (ii) in relation to the Perobas landfill: (a) installation and maintenance of a security system for
the entire surroundings in order to keep strangers out; (b) planting and maintenance of a tree line, lOOm
in width, surrounding the area consisting of special vegetation that limits air currents, that are pleasing
to the eye and that emit a pleasant fragrance frcm their flowers; (c) maintain a distance of at least 100
meters between the homes and the areas used as a dump; and, (d) establish an adequate system for the
treatment of leachate; (iii) in relation to the Onga sewage treatment plant: (a) maintain urbanization and
arborization outside the plant areas so as to avoid erosion of slopes and promote the aesthetics for the
whole area; (b) reduce the eventual discharges for maintenance purposes to when it is only absolutely
necessary, and if possible, program them with enough time so that the residents on the water banks and
downstream at the point of the discharge are infermed of what is happening. They should also be warned
of the duration and possible risks of bhe operation; (c) conuminicate to the populatior when the discharges
will end; (d) provide an appropriate drainage system for the sludge drying beds; and, finally, (e) the
station should be operated according to the establishad criteria established in the operation manuals,



- 79 -
EX 12
Page 11 of 11
anticipating maximum efficiency in all of the areas of the project, and avoiding with this, the occurrence
of any problems with enviromnental pollution that would diminish the image of the project in the region;
and, (iv) in relation to the Pamnpulha ecological park: (i) that the area planned for sport and recreation
be restricted to individual sports (walking and running), avoiding the installation of arees for collective
sports that could possibly damage the zooiogical ecosystem reserve that is intended for the islands; (ii)
that barbecues and other fire provoking structures will not be permitted; (iii) that the entrance of all motor
vehicles in the reserve be prohibited; (iv) that small 'beaches' be made, in order to facilitate the access
of animals from the reserve out to the reservoir; and (v) that a structuire of control and supervision be
established and maintained in the reserve.



- 80 -
ANNEX 13
Page I of 3
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER POLLUTION AND QUALITY CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Obligations of the Executing Agencies
1.    The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including:
(a)    repayment period of 15 years, including 5 years of grace;
(b)   the Subsidiary Loans shall be denominated in dollars indicating its equivalency in
Cruzeiros on the basis of the exchange rate between both currencies on the date of each
payment;
(c)   the interest rate applicable to the Subsidiary Loans shall be the interest rate applicable to
the Loan pursuant to the relevant section of the Loan Agreement plus a service charge
equal to 0.5 of I percent per annum of the amounts withdrawn on behalf of such
Executing Entity, payable to the Financial Agent;
(d)   the Executing Entities shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of th-
Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at the rate of 3/4 of I percent per
annum.
2.     General Obligations of Executing Entities under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the
Subsidiary Agreements include:
(a)   the Executing Thall carry out the Subvroiects with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, financial, environmental and pub,ic
utility practices;
(b)   in order to assist in the carrying out of Eligible Subprojects, each Executing Entity shall
employ qualified and experienced consultants, such consultants to be selected in
accordance with the provisioiis for procurement in the Loan Agreement; the terms and
conditions of each contract with such consultants, to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)    (i) each Executing Entity shall undertake to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freel)
usable by such Executing Entity to replace or repair such goods; and (ii) except as the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, each Executing Entity shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for Eligible Subprojects
being carried out by each such Executing Entity;



- 81 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
(d)    (i) with respect to each Eligible Subproject being carried out by each Executing Entity,
each such Executing Entity, each such Executing Entity shall furnish to the Borrower,
through PMU, and, if so requested, make available to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plan, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for each such Eligible Subproject, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto; (ii) each ExecutIng Entity shall, with respect to each Eligible
Subproject being carried out by such Executing Entity, maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of each such Eligible Subproject (including
the cost and the benefits to be derived from each such Eligible Subproject), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use
in each Eligible Subproject; and (iii) each Executing Entity shall enable the authorized
representatives of the Bank and the Borrower to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in each Eligible Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents in respect to each Eligible
Subproject;
(e)    each Executing Entity shall furnish to the Borrower, two months after each semester, a
progress report (containing all such information as the Biank shall reasonably request
through the Borrower) concerning each Eligible Subpro,iect carried out or being carried
out by it, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits and results to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds, and Project execution and financial monitoring indicators;
(f)    promptly after completion of the Projec., but in any event not later than three months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrowe; and the Bank, each Executing Entity shall prepare a report satisfactory to the
Bank and the Borrower on the execution of the Subprojects carried out by each Executing
Entity;
(g)    each Executing Entity shall maintain a system of monitoring indicators satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank;
(h)    each Executing Entity shall select each Subproject in a manner consistent with the criteria
set forth in the Operational Manual and shall ensure that such criteria are being
consistently applied by each such Executing Entity in the carrying out of each Eligible
Subproject under the Project;
(i)    each Executing Entity shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan. its future expansion and conducts its business and undertaking, all in accordance
.vith appropriate business, financial and public utility practices, and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assi.ed by adequate and competent staff;
(j)  where appiicable, each Executing Entit) shall: (i) at all times take necessary steps to
maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and retain all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which .re necessary or useful for the purpose
of complying with its obligations under this Schedule or for the effcient conduct of its
business and undertaking; (ii) at all times operate and maintain the plants, machinery,



- 82 -
ANN,EX 13
Page 3 of 3
equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public
utility practices; and (iii) not sell, lease, transfer or other dispose of any of the property
or assets owned or operated by it, if such sale, lease, transfer or disposition would
materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying-out of the Project;
(k)    each Executing Entity shall make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower
for insurance against such risks and id such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
public utility practices;
OI)    each Executing Entity shall maintain records adequate to reflect, in accordance with
appropriate account practices consistently applied, its operations and financial condition,
including separate records and accounts in respect to the Subprojects;
(m)   each Executing Entity shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) and the separate
accounts with respect to the Subproject for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) furnish through the Borrower to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each suclh year, (1)
certified copies of such financial statements for such year as so audited, and (2) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested. The report shall include such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of each such Executing Entity and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
(n)    each Executing Entity s' . appoint, and retain until the completion of the Project, a
Sectoral Project Coordinator with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower;
B. ha 9^wer sh.1l h%va the riaht tn cucnpndi dishmremants uinder the Slihcirlinrv T ean
Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement if the respective Executing Entity fails to comply
any of its obligations under such Agreement; and
(p)    the Subsidiary Loan Agreement for COPASA shall include a f:nancial plan, satisfactory
to the Bank, providing for specific obligations on wate; anti sewerage rate adjustments,
bill adjustment for inflation and reduction of receivables



- 83 -                                                       ANNM 14
Page 1 of 3
Table lA
WATER QUAUTrY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERMIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS INTHEB
BELO kORIZONTE METROPOUTAN AREAS
Quatwrly Projec Elocution
1992 - 1993
wwCU~r4l   ToTAL                                         1992                                             1993
SUR - FROMMI                          AOBNCY   IU31 X  1000   II   T.                  IRIIO          21 aTR 3 F M  41 T.                I  qaM  1    (YIrR 21 QTR 31 OM  41
DRAINAGE                    _________ _____                              101,006   38.2       1,875         0      469       469       938   24,651       6163      6163      6163      6163
1Reguilariz. ,Urtniz An-udas - Phase               PBH              47.9.38   18.15 :::470[____              118      l11       23.787             1969      1 -6- -    - 99     199
-2Regulsriz. /Urbaniz Sanindi - Phase 1             PMC_____         10,381    3.3       739 1                8         8        370     5,339      1335      1335      1335      1335
D-3Regulariz.' Urbaniz Ferrugemn - PMC                 PM                698      64         73  ___            118       11__7797                      94       1994      194        94
D - 4 'SRegulariz. IUrbaniz Onca                   L    PBH               25,689    9.3        1931 L4___            8        4.        97    3,5          865       865      85         6
SEWEBAOB   __________________  _______    ~~~~~~~~194,968  51.11  1,364                  0    "91    391    782  32.487   am2   a1m    5122   512
E - I Se%wenage Intemceptors Arrudasa                   COPASA            12,958    4.911    388  ____              97        97       194     3.901       9754      9-75 1    975      9751
Se%weage bittereeptors Samtudi                  COPASA              6,784    2.57       239  _ _             60        60       120     1.957       489       489       489      489
Sewerage Teatmeent Station  Arduda              COPASA             33,916   1.4         50125                         125       250{  12.286       30671   3067       3067      3067
4Reversion Systemn Vargem  Prose                 COPASA            10.760    40          5013                          13        25    3.423        856       856       856 1    856
-6  Sewerange Interceptors Onca                      COPASA              25,022    9.4          0    ___                    50       100    6,184       154       1546      154       1546
E- 7 Sewerage Teatment Station OCha                  COPASA             32000   1.1                               47_____   47        941   1,21          0    __07         37_0
~~OL___                          __D___WA_______                       4,665    1.77              ____               T _9  9        197    L2           5       4_          301,301
2 Solid Wases Rehab. Porgram  PMC                    PMC               1,5681  3.59         39__               10        10        20____   _1_14              ___4       104        0
R   3 Ground Wastes Disosition_Prog. Perobas           PMC                42! 0.16           221  ____[_          55        55      ill       20;1I1 51                                5
URBANZATIN                    ______                  ____                  7,819    2.98       164         0        41        41       82    1,125        281       281       281       281
I Urban Imoprovemeents - Arr-udas PBH               PBHI              2,583!  0.98 ___52                           ___= __         2.      2371       59!       59        59        59,
U1rban Treatment -Arrudas PM              MC                          855    0.32,        17                                       9       809       20        20        20        20
3 Ecologcal Park Pamepulha                          PBH            1.0284    0.391         154                  4 ~    4          8        566!i    142T       142       1421    142~
4 Enmronmiental Protection                    I      MC       j       3.353j   1.2          0                  20L       20140   -           42-6               61,       61        61'1
'ItON'M1ITAL MANAGBMCBNT                                               8,458    3.21       342          0       5         86       171    4,27        1069      1069     1069      1069
Protection Study, - 'Rio Das Velhtas            FFAM               Z.364    0.90                              I                           145     36        363       363       36
2Environmental Tr&ning_Prog. - PBH                FEAM                 820    0.31                                                         29         70        70        70        70
Industrial Actiity Control                      FEAM               256    0.97,                               I        1       12       .9          9         9         9       498
4Institutional Development -  EM278J10,                                                  183                             5         9...52             3          3     138         18
~AGEMENT                                                               7,137    2.70       371                  93        93      155    i,632        41.3      413       41.3      413
.           ------~~~~~~~~~~---              I~~~~~     7, I7  2.0         37                                                    -9--                       43~ 4
IManagement Superv  Complem. Project              BDMO        L,,S?           27,         7137                                   18....J........25.    413              413341
TOTAL BASE COST ....                 .            '3  10000O    4,709                 1177 Tj 1177        2,355   66,013T   16503   1I5SW       16503    16503
PHYSICAL CON%TNGENCIES ( 59 ) ............                     13,203               235,                 59       .59       118    3.301        825'      825       8251     825
PRICE AT DEC. 1991 PRICES ............                 277.256%             4,945               1236      1236 1 2472   69,314,1  17328    17328 ' 17328    17328
ESCALATION  (3.99%)............                30,374         I       76          I       191       19j      36~  3,910         9761      9761      976,    976
TOTAL PROJECT COST ............                  307,630              5,02                12551 i    255j   25-1117309 iI 183w                      183028 I1



- 84 -
ANNEX 14
Table IlB                                       Page 2 of 3
WATER QUALIrY AND POLLUTION PROJECT [N MI4NAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Quatarly Project Execution
1994 - 1995
F-                                    MX8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21kuTWO[    TOTAL                 19914                                           1995
SUB - fOIBCr                         A4YUS$ioo        TAIQOMQhIqR    f41 ToW   MIIQrR1 or2qrRs' QTh4
DRAINAGE                     __    ____ ___-                          1I.0(S  38.25  3&IsM          843      8436      8436    843-6  22,432        560      !68    '5608
D-1Repulanzt / Urtniz Amudas - Phias [I              PBH             47,938,~ 1.15   1230        39I39Z063390    309690                          39        O9T39             3095
* - 2 Regulariz. /UTrbniz Sbrandi - Phawe I            PMC             10.3811  3.93,  3,853        963       963      963.             9631   450   113      123      113t      1133
-3R'gulariz.f/Urbaniz Fcrrugemn - PMC              PMC              16,998,  6. 4.1 8.074       20191   2019       2019     20191    474         119      11,        19      119
D  4Regulariz. /Urbaniz Onca                         PBH             2569I973]    ,427           2357L    2357      2357   2_3 5 7     9113 I     2802280                    2280
SEWEMAOB                                                              134.968   51.11   46,099   11525    11525    11525    11525   36,012         9022      902      9022    9=2
- 1 bemrage Lntemccptoru Arrudus                   COPASA   J        12,958    4.921   3.4741     8691      869      869       869    3,474  ___69          969      8~69:=869
B - 2 Semwmg  intemvcptom Samandz                  COPA~ SA             6,784'  2.57    3,310        28  28             8281     8281   1.278       320       320      320 1     320
E - 3 Sewrrage Teatment Stationa Affudas             COPASA            33.916   12.84   12,336      3084     30841   3084       3084 I7,0041    17511   1751.    17511   175:
E - 4 Reversico  System  Vargeme Flores              COPASAk           10.760    4.07 I 4,82B       12071   12071    12,07      12071  2,4X91    6151    615           6151   .615
E - 5 Secrage Connection & Discharge Onca            COPASA            13.528    5.121   7,1341   178        1784      1784     17841  2,8631        716      71       716.
- 6 Sconme Iine!yptors Onca                         COPASA            25.022    9.48    8,5901   2148       2148!    2140    21494   6,960    1740   iZ40'1740 i    1740
E - 7 Seweage Temtment Station Ono&                  C.OPASA            2,0       .1J 64'107                                    16~07'__12,044_    3011      3011     3011.
SOLID WASTBS                   _ _ _         __      ____                4,665    1.77    1.67S      419       419      419       419      776       194      194       1914     194
R - I SoUd W  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RehabilUiton Prog. PBH  PBH 4   2,672    1.01     9371    234'       23        3'       24lo                                   (         U
R - 2 Solid Wastes Rehab. Porgmmn  PMC                 PMC              1,5681  0.591    738         1851    1851       1851    185        376,      94        94       94        94
R -3 Grounid Wastes Dlspo.thion Prog, Pen,bu           PMC42£06_                                                                            _
URBANIZATION                                           ____              7.819    236    2,368       592       592      592       59     2,323       581      Sa1l      581
M - 1 l.Trbin lprovements - Arrudas PBH4               P31H             2,583    0.98.    716        179      279       179      179       931      233       233      233
M - 2 UrbanTreatrnn-ruas"cPC855    032'                                                    213        53'      53        53       53       2S4        71       71       71        71
M - 3Ec-oIo*3aI Park Pant, -.a            ~H1,028    0,391    4.47                                  _112_     112       1122   -   12        ..
M- 4 Envirunmental Protection  _____-                PN4C33-                    1.7       92       28         48       44       24      1,C        27       27        27
BNqVItONbKNTAL  bLAIAG1100ENr                                           8,458   3.1       2,013      503       505       503     5SW       874       218      218       218
A-I                 -- ----.7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- ---
A-IProtection Study - 'Rio Das Velhas              IimA              4,304    0.96      628      _157      ''7       157      157      142        36.       36    -36          36
A- 2 Eziviromnrotal Tmasing Prog. - PBII            FE4M 'm2'3    0 31,                  3. 4       91__        [               91       165       41        41,      41
A -3 Industrial ActMvtyControl                  ZJ.E M           i      2556    0.67       128 r      32       32        32!       2       128       32        32-      32
A -4 Insthutuionsi Developrmecit - FEAM          '    PEAM              2,---718'  1.03    893 i     223'      223     223:      223___439          110       110,     110       110
ILMANAGElmH                                __        ____                3137    2.70    1.6r-1      4WV       400      40D       400    1,56        392      392-      392
I_Mangemen  Superv. Cornp    Projet            B-¶1 4G     I        7      270    1 601       400)     400       400   _400__1,SI4  _392               3)2__392           392
TOTAL BASE COST...                 ...        264,053  I0000   87,5W  21875    '18,75;  21875    21875'  64.(153    16013    16013    16013    16013
PH4YSICAL CONTINJGENCIES (5   ) ......             ...       13,203            4,3751   1094       1094,    1094      1094    3.20        801      601       801
PRICE AT DEC. 1991 PRICES...........-                277,256            91,8753  2.269    229A9    22969'  22969   67,25.;  16814    1681.;   16814   I~
ESCALAT-ION  (3.9*)..30.........               37 4             8,969     222       24       241       2242    9,344,   2336       2336     2336
TOTAL PROJElCT COS . ...........    307,630                     1100,6441  2522121   25211!  2.5211    2521    76 600,29i¶'A)   19I50    1915)'   19151



ANNFX14
Table iC                                      Page 3of 3
WAThR QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATBR BASINS IN ThE
BELO HORIZONTE METMOPOLUTAN AREAS
Qumtwly Project Executlon
I996 - 1997
EOcvrD0o    TOTAL.                                 196                                           1997
3sU - mROlBCT                       AOM6CT  US$ 81000                  TOWSI QT I I O  21 = IB  Q** 41 TOWA I r I IQTB 2 FQTR3 TQTR4
RADIAUiB                                          ____-             U10.00    3125   15.890    3973    3973    3973    3973    2.414            604      604      604       604
1 Rcgulariz./Urbaniz Arrudas - Phaufl            PBH             47,938   18.15   12397'   309        39 3099-    3099    2,Z414            6041    6041    6041    604~
D - 2 Reguisriz./ Urbanw  Samandi - Phtac IIP       MC                10,381    3.93                                      ____    __9_  ____                    ___
D - 3 Regularz. / Urbaniz Ferrugem - PMC               MC             16,998    64                                __       __        __       __                __
D - 4 Rogulariz. /Urbaniz Onca                        PBH___          2568                                           873zL 3.9{___  7    __  873               ______
_B____AG_______S_-                                                                     16BH       4::    4146    4141    4141    2.143           536       S6       S6        3
B -  c iwerge irnLezeptors Arruda         -      COFASA                          t -                                    1   si                -1         1___I         r-
E - 2 Sewerage Intercetors Samandi                  COPASA             6,784    2.57_ _ _ _ -                         . -_ _
B - 3 Sewerage Testmwt: Station Arnidu              COPASA            33,916   12.84    1,8101    453       453      453      453
B -4 Reweriont System Vuprgem Flores                COPASA            10O    407
B-5 Semmgc Cnectiron  Dihr  Oca                    COPAS          _ 13_5_      5         0       __         72       7712_ _            ___  
E -    Sears8  IneryTorsOncaCOPASA ~    25,=                     a AX                                                ______7 bl_7____                        ____
B-7Sewerage Teatmnent Station 3nca               COPASAI32.CE               1 24     99         43      24.        4        43   2__                             5        536
SOLID  WASTES                            _    _      _     __          4,66S    1.717       0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
-I Solid Wastcs RehabiUladon Prog. PBH              PBH             2,672    10    __ __               ____
3Ground Wastes r,h    tioeln Prog. Perobu      P'MC               425!01                                1       .         L          .    . 1
UIRBANIZATION   _ __7.819    2.96    1.8)                                                          460       440      440      460         0        0        (1        0        0
M-I UrbtLn Izprovmenu - Arnudus PBH4                PBH1            2,5&    0.98       6474     162   162 [        162,    162
M -2 Urbin Treatment -Armudu  Ph4C                    PMC               8~03,            21          5        5]      6.5!      55 
M- 3 Bcologial Park Pampulha              -.       PBH              1,020   0.39          [.                          i-                             __~-------
M -4 Envlronmntmtal Protection         P.-             MC                       2.273____________
ENVIRONMb4rAL hLANAOFBh[E?                        ___4584                       3.21       )4      159     1in        159      159      311        so       so       t0        80
* - I rotwton Stdy - Rio Das Veihas           FE                2,364    0.90.    1421       36[ -      6       36       361 
*A-2 Environmental Traning Prog. -PBH                FEM                8201  0.311       12         3!        i       3   3                            _______
A - 3 Industria  ActMty Control                tFE "A                 2,5361  0.971    102         26   2,   2        6        26                              - --~
A - 4 InstIUttional De'.lopment - FEAM               FELA3                               378__      951      95_95              _95     318    80'          80       80       go:
MLANAGEM 4I____                                                        7.137    2.70    1.556      392      392       392      392      311        95       95        95       95
0-  aiagefient Superv. -Cornp1cn. P-roj-ent   E--DMG  7                     .0      '3        392'    392        392        92_381            95       95      -95-       95'
TOTAL BASE COST ............              264,053  1OOnO]  36,5221   9131!   91.11    9131'   9131   .5,256 ] 1314             1314     13141    1314'1
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCMS (5%). ..1 .....                       13,X3        I 1,826        457       451 4     57      457       23        66       66,       66;      66
PRICE AT DEC. 1991 PRICES ............              277,2516         :3.348      95871j   958'7   9587       957      559        30      20        30       ]O
ESCAATIO    ( 39% )..................  3,3741736                1736     1736,    1736    1.136       264      24        6        2641
TOTAL PROJECr COSTr.........                  3011,630          45,27[   11.322    1 Ir2    113221  113221  6,6541   1664'1  1664!   1664             16641



BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN M![NAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Monitoring Indicators
EXECUT.                        1992      1993    1994    1995        1996        1997
COMPONENTS                           AGENCY             UNIT   B A                                                 TARGET
PHYSICAL INDICATORS                  ___________                                                                   ___
Resettlement                                   I MBH - MMC    FAMILIES                  370    1,13    1,566  _1622 1, 6622              1,622
ua~n  D)rainage__   _       _1  MBH - MMC  l                             Km __  __   0.30        4.4t    10.91    13.84i    15.83        16.52
_j)rainage                       MBCOPAS -             Km____
[Sewer Inturceptor                             i    COPASA         i    Km    _                18.2'    46.93    67.69 !    71.75       71.75
ewer Conection                                       COPASA        t    Km             __      40.12   115.62   208.03     208.03      208.03
Sew rage Tratment Pant- Arrudas                        COPASA              bult           5      4(1       80       95_    100            100
%rwerage Tratment Plant - Onca                       COPASA        I  % built    __         _____          30       651       90         I00
ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS
_    .   _-__----    . _   .               _ r     _I_._I_
Station 8 (Arruda_                      _       FEAM  - COPASA                              __            -.    0.t               1  - 1.5  1
Station 12 (Onca _                              FFAM - COPAcA _ mg/                _     _.5 - 0.9  1.4 -1.9
BOD _                             -  -- - __                                     _ _ 5                                 _                   _
Statiuws .'  rruas     _                        FEAM-COPASA__ _  _                150-190  _      _    __                         80-100
|Station      a                                                                    120 - 150                   - - _               90 - 115
OPERATIONAL INDICATORS
Sewr Corvenae-_                -JCOPASA                                   %82 51                            84       85                    85
ISewer Treatment                                      COPASA --      %_ -- J--_--_------__                                                 70
LSid Waste Treatment _    _  _  _                                                                          10                              100
FINANCIAI. INDICATORS                                                                                                                                      Z
-r-_Com gliance Ratio --   0                   fr    COPASA              % e      -G   995 1108           10 s     107'      110          1071            X
LAccounts Receivable                                  COPASA             Days             321      33       30   _30            301          0 
j Operational Ratio                                  CO('PASA                            75       73       74       76        74'  -        4.
Municipal Tax Collcction                           MBII - MMC         US$ Iyr   I      272!    309L    312;    315           318          3221
State Tax Collection                                  STATF           USS ',r         3.268    3,4121  3.5941   3.578,    3.9881 _ 4225!
1pqr *   I  ..



- 87 -                                  ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
Table 1
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Bidding Package
USS Million
SU1B - PROJECT                                                                                   ESIMATED
CODE                                              ICH                                         COST
WORKS
D- 1/E- 1    Arrudas Urban & Channel Drainage,and Sewage Interceptors I                      1        17.30
D - 1/1E - 1    Arrudas Urban & Channel Drainage,and Sewage Interceptors II                  ]        16.00
D - 1/ E - 1    Arrudas Urban & Channel Drainage, and Sewage Interceptors III                         18.40
D - 1 / E - 1    Arrudas Urban & Channel Drainage, and Sewage Interceptors IV                         17.30
D - 2/ E - 2    Sarandi Urban & Channel Drainage, and Sewage Interceptors                             11.60
D - 3 / E - 1    Onca Urban & Channel Drainage, and Sewage Interceptors                               21.70
D - 4/ E - 6    Onca Urban & Channel Drainage, and Sewage Interceptors (2650m)                       35.30
E6          Onca Sewage Interceptor (10,550m)                                                    22.80
E 3         Arrudas Sewage Treatment Station                                                     38.60
E 7         Onca Sewage Treatment Station                                                        36.00;
TOTAL                                                                                             235.00
GOODS
ET4         Vargem Flores Reversion System  - Sewage Equipment                                    1.601
E 4         Vargem Flores Reversion System  - Sewage Ceramic Materials                  |         1.90
E 5         Onca Sewage Connection & Discharge - Sewage Ceramic Materials/PUC                     7.30
_____   E 4         Vargem Flores Reversion System  - Sewage Cast & Iron Material             .           2.80
R - I        PBH Solid Waste Collector Equipment                                                   0.60
R - 2        PMC Solid Waste Collector Equipment                                                   1.401
TOTAL                                                                                              15.60 l



- 88 -                                 ANNE  16
Page 2 of 3
Table 2
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS INTHE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Bedding Package
US$ Million
SUB - PROJEr                            'ESIMATED
CODE                                            LCB                                         COST
WORKS
D2/E2       |Sarandi Channel & Sewage Interceptors                                               6.80
E4         Vargem dasFlores Reversion                                                          6.20
ES          Onca Sewage Connections & Discharges Equipment - PartI                             230
E 5         Onca Sewage Connections & Discharges Equipment - Part lI                           2.80
E5          Onca Sewage Connections & Discharges Equipment - PartIII                            1.90
E 5         OnAca Sewage Connections & Discharges Equipment - Part IV                           1.60
M 3         Pampulha Ecological Park                                                            1.00
M 4         Reforesting of Vargem Flores Reservoir                                              1.30
M 4         Vargem Flores Infrastructure Rehabilitation                                         1.50
M 4         Vargem Flores - Other Services                                                      0.70
M 1         Carrudas PBH Urban Renovation - Part I                                             0.60
M 1         Carrudas PBH Urban Renovation - Part II                                            0.60
M 1         CCarrudas PBH Urban Renovation - Part III                                          0.60
M 1         Carrudas PBH Urban Renovation - Part IV                                            0.70
M 2         PMC - Urban Renovation                                                              0.80
M 3         PMC - Peroba Wastes Landfill                                              I         0.50
TOTAL   ._-                                                                                     29.90
GOODS                                                                     _                         _
Ml          Arrudas PBH Urban Renovation Equipment I                                           0.20
ml          Arrudas PMC Urban Renovation Equipmentll                                           0.20
M 2         Arrudas PMC Urban Renovation Equipment                                             0.20
M 3         PMC Solid Waste Collector Equipment            __                                  0.22
[Non - Allocated                                                                     7.20
TOTAL                                                                                  _         8.02
Grand Total                                     _                        ___                      37.92



- 89 -                               ANTEX 16
Page 3 of 3
Table 3
WATER QUALITY AND POLLIJTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Consultant Services
US$ Million
SUB - PRO1Er                                                                               BSIMATED
CODE                                                                                    COST
INTERNATIONAL                                                    _-
D 1        Arrudas Urban & Drainage Channel Engineering                                     0.80
_       s n   n     b  &T sin.agc Ciiaii~  r..............n: npveik  IUsviLiv1UU            U..........u.
G 1        BDMG    - Project Management                                         -     .    1.90
G 1        BDMG - Field Supervission Project (Four Contracts )                              5.10
D 4        Onca Sewage Interceptor Project                                                  0.50
E 7        Onca Sewage Treatment Station Project                                            130
Industrial Activities Project                 _                                 2.00
TOTAL                                                                                |       12.10
=O O D  __             _  _  _ _ ._    ._    _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _ __
GOODS_
E I        Arrudas - Sewage Interceptor Engineerng                                          0.20
E 2        Sarandi - Sewage Interceptor Engineering Invitation                              0.10|
R 1        PBH - Solid Waste Action Plan                                                    0.20j
R 2        PMC - Solid Waste Action Plan                                                    0.20
A2         Environmental Education                                                          C.40
A4         Training Environmental Management                                                130
Non - Allocated        __                                           __          2.10
A 1        Rio Velba Protection System                          _                  J.90
A 3       1 Evaluation of Industrial Pollution                                              0.201
TOTAL                                                         
TOTan         __ _ a8_ _-.70
irand Total                                                                             !     18.701



ANNEX 17
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION PROJECT IN MINAS GERUS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA WATER BASINS IN THE
BELO HORIZONTE METROPOLITAN AREAS
Loan Disburseuaent Schedule
US$ Million
BANK FISCAL YEAR   QUARTMRLY   CUMULATIVAI  DISBURSEMENT
QUARTER ENDING   DISBURSEMENT
______j _______   ,US$ Milion                            US$ Minion    % TOTAL
FY  1993
] ck.*w'. 4,C, ^,2                    0~~       ~~~.V      u.u                U.(1
December 31, 1992                                 2.6                  2.6                2.0
March 31, 1993                                 21.2 4                23.8                16.0
June 30, 1993                                     8.5                 323 _              22.0
FY    1994                     _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _    _  _ _  _ _  _ _      _  _ _  _  _ _
September 30, 1993           1                    8.5                 40.8               28.0
December 31, 1993                                 85                 49.3                34.0
March 31, 1994                                    8.5                 57.8               43.0
Ju-e 30. 1994                                     9.5 [              67.3                51.0
FY 1995                 _                            _                _
[September 30, 1994                               11.5                78.8                60.0
December 31, 1994                                12.3                91; l               69.0
March 31, 1995                                    9.3               100.61               75 0
June 30, 1995                  _              _  9.3                 109.9               81.0
FY    1996                      _  _  _ _  _ _  __                     _ _  _ _  _  _   _ _  _
September 30, 1995                                93 9               119.2               81.0|
December 31, 1995                                 7.9                127.1               88.0l
March 31, 1996                                    3.8                130.9               90.0
June 30, 1996                                     3.8                134.71              93.0J
FY 1997                                 ___                         . _           __
September 30, 1996                                3.8                138.5               96.0
December 31, 1996                                 3.8                142.3               98.0
March 31, 1997                                    ;.4               143.7                99.0
June 30, 1997                {                    1.3                145.0_             100.0
Note:
. includes US$ 12 million of Special Account



BRAZIL
ULtETR QUILITY AND POLWTION CONTROL PROJECT IN hlNAS GERAIS
ARRUDAS AND ONCA UATERBAS INS IN THE
BELO iOR IZONTE METROPOLIITMl AREA
RIO DAS UEIHAS WATER BASIN  AGENCY - STRATEGIC PLANNING
|  SU.PJCT.   I            rI                                   LYIS        |            LE"ET   TON!  |          |LS|
5131FRAGIOK F  0  K                                                     OE?              TlLRo  A*3 ULIJIRS                                    )
a R^t          I OF          IUALIT    j                                                                                                                     I
INSTITUTIOAL                       (2
|I*OL -  IT         |       EIE =F |   jAS;;LFRIST+Y   |AIN  SOLJCLIND|-                 1BN 3RJ   uaiT                 SETln MVs
l X |  ___"l l!11i2STUD VI 1 8lol IS1i!!§16':          1=                               I            uI        |    |E  U  TEITIO  OF
LO$AL.SfDE|-  NtsRTkNU*III      ADJS THE rR                                                                            PROTET |   rmOTyclolt
AGENCIES F RzSK2*OATION
UsILkICfLENCFLNNIROISIMAL EOL9CIII
a;n t:I          IKR* EU          =   I        UZ   b5AENO                                                                    FOR >|s" someA *  iININ
I    TQ!~A~~HS              LEG   A ION                                                                           *NDft  REosETTWUIIT
Cel6WS ~  ~~ ~~~                                                                                              43o                  1041T:N  TSe -LO  in sny tsillrIspr    *-w-etIcue    S4eEl rwt   henroiwo   reu
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IK  _RA                                                              CEIfl
ALIL XI:IFLN            ___________SFICDC 
IN                          ___ __ __ __ __ __ __
P OLLUT 1001UNCES                                                                    RESIETTLEJIDI  CRITEiAi
1MyARj?AIIIT*L         r      IKLTOa                    NU1UtPD;93PRTCIO   3*
NIIROIISD(*L                                    j FEAfl - FINAL REPORT         IICbNI i  IIO"t RIIGONOKIA
INAM0W4flT SYBTEIM        LF4T K3()
Ril U             F  L        T       1 O!UONlAf                                                     IMNTS&TU  UWAiTETY
LIc a ES                                                                                                      or MASTRA  KESOUCES
"am                 PIA___  I1IL DI h2ATT8U                   E?              NmST  UIP         IEL I
CD4ERA  SCHEDLE    SEP-1992 =~~)jIM-19JIL9J                        iR49,JU-94 = =-) JUH-j19,,JUL-I995 =====> JW4N-i9961JUL-19%6
T   ..the   Ua."n Ag.ncV  "..'bIo  F*  ItS parPo... th. pr-J.Ct i..I..d.s US& 400.OOS.SS to the cent ...tlni or sp..Iaiiz.d
Con..iIw S.r.I.es and s.It.bI. t ... tI.n.l*.IpI     t
Cx
'_0



- 92 -
ANNEX19
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Selection Criteria for Subprojects
1.    Each proposed subproject should correspond to the least-cost solution, and should be the object
of a feasibility study prepared in accordance with these guidelines. All feasibility studies should be
prepared by the Executing Agency, and reviewed and appiroved by the UGP.
2.    A subproject is the sum of one or more components from  hree main categories: (a) pollution
control development related studies or technical assistance; (b) actions to upgrade enviromnental
conditions or living conditions of populations; (c) rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, and (d)
construction of new facilities.
3.    The analysis of a given subproject seeks to establish the priority of the proposed components, its
consistency with sector policies, and its contribution to the achievement of project objectives. The
analysis also aims to ascertain that neither the subr-oject nor its components adversely effect the
environment and that their benefits equal or exceed their costs.
4.    Several steps should be followed to perform this analysis in a systematic and effective way. It
is first necessary to describe and evaluate the current situation aad installations, as well as assess both
the existing and future demands for the projected services. Feasible alternatives can then be explored,
compared, and selected thus leading to a development of subproject components. The end result is an
investment and action plan covering implementation and operation to ensure that future demands are met
at minimum cost. Secondly, an environmental assessment is done tG ensure that the proposed works meet
acceptable environmental protection standards. Finally, for water, sewerage and sewage treatment, a
marginal cost pricing analysis is performed to evaluate the tariff structure, the economic benefits, and the
cost-effectiveness of prospective water and sewerage investments.
5.    The discount rate to use is 10 percent. A sensitivity analysis is recommended when alternative
present similar values or annual costs. Costs should be expressed in constant prices; that is, inflation is
not taken into account. Financial and transfer costs such as interest, depreciation, and taxes should not
enter into the calculations. Moreovez, c nomic costs to be included are the incremental investment,
replacement, and operational costs associated with the component. These costs are determined on the
basis of an anaiysis of the situation "with" and "without" the project, which is not necessarilv the same
as "before" and "after' the project.
6.     The subproject proposee should include unit costs and tangible monitoring indicators should be
routinely used during project execution as control devices to ensure that all investments will produce the
intended results and remain cost effective. Unit cost indicators are also intended to create a cost data
bank to be used to improve cost estimates for future subprojects and to help identify cost-effective and
replicable programs.



- 93 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
7.     Benefit and cost parameters should be followed closely during project construction. An adverse
change in any of these parameters should trigger a review of the project aiid, if necessary, the subproject
or component should be modified to ensure that maximum net benefits continue to accrue.
8.     All subprojects will be screened to determine the degree, if ary, to which potential environmental
impacts may oS ur. Also corsidered will be any proposed actions that will prevent or mitigate any
adverse effects and ensure that the subproject is environmental sound and sustainable. To this end, the
subproject proposal should contain clarification to all questions raised in relation to such subproject in
the RIMA/!IA reports, and, specifically, for resettlement on issues raised during appraisal as listed in
Annexes 4 for the Guarapiranga Component and 16 for the Curitiba Component. Many subprojects are
likely to require only a limited environmental analysis. Each assessment wil: include: (a) a detailed
description of the project and of relevant environmental conditions; (b) an analysis of positive and
negative impacts likely to result from the project's components; (c) an analysis of alternatives to mitigate
any adverse effects and costs and benefits of proposed remedial actions; (d) a proposed plan to reduce
potentially significant adverse environmental impacts to acceptable levels, its costs (capital and recurrent)
and institutional an training requirements, if any; and (e) a monitoring plan regarding environmental
impacts and performance.
9.     Water supply subprojects would be econemically justified using marginal costs--inciuding
complementary works, and the estimated operational and maintenance cost. Water projects will be
approved only if the company's current average water tariff in the city (AWTi) exceeds 75 percent of the
marginal cost of providing the water supply service to residential customers with the given project
(MCWi) in 1992, 80 percent in 1993, and 85 percent in 1994 and afterwards.
10.    Sewerage projects will be approved only if the company's current average sewerage tariff in the
project's site (ASTi) exceeds 60 percent of the marginal cost of providing the sewerage service to
residential customers with the given project (MCSi) in 1992, 70 percent in 1993; 80 percent in 1994; and
85 percent in 1995 and afterwards.
11.    Projects not satisfying the above conditions but which are designed for minimum cost may be
accepted by the Bank on a case-by-case basis. The analysis should explicitly address the following issues:
(i) the lack of alternative and feasible solutions; (ii) the impossibility of recovering costs through tariffs;
and (iii) the impact on poverty alleviation, and environmental and health conditions.



- 94 -
ANNEX2
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Supervision Plan
A. Bank Supervision
1.   A preliminary src%;uule of supervision missions including key activities and specialization
needed is indicated in the table on page 2. The key activities shown in the table are in addition to the
desk supervision needs, which include the review of: (a) progress reports; (b) studies and
recommendations; (c) audits: (d) procurement documents, awards and resulting issues; (e) updating of
plans and operational guidelines; and (f) correspondence. These desk supervision needs are estimated
to require four staff weeks per year during the whole implementation period.
2.   The main emphasis during the initial project phase would be on: (a) assisting the Borrower in
the establishment of the project implementation unit (UGP); coordination with the executing agencies,
the operational guidelines (Operational Manual) and the monitoring system; (b) making certain that all
parties are knowledgeable cf the project objectives and scope; and of prcject documentation; (c)
confirming that all parties are knowledgeable of Bank procdures with emphasis on procurement,
audit especially statement of expenditures, disbursements and progress reports.
3.   When the system is in place, Bank assistance will focus on: (a) eligibility of subprojects; (b)
studies conducive to and implementation of the water basin authority and water surcharge; (c)
preparation and implementation of the industrial pollution control plan; (d) FEAM's institutional
strengthening; (e) preparation of the das Velhas studies; (f) resettlement activities; (g) monitoring of
environmental impacts of subprojects; and (h) community involvement and training.
B. Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
4.   The responsibilities of the Borrower and individual executing agencies for the project and the
project implementation documents and procedures are detailed in the Operational Manuial agreed on
during Loan Negotiations. The Project Implementation Unit (UGP) at the BMDG will be in charge
of overseeing all project activities, control of project studies and submission of project documents for
Bank review and approval.



ANNEX2C
Page 2 of 2
Approximate Dates                                                                           Staff Input
(month/year)                  Activity                 Expe.ted Skill Requirements      (staff weeks)
2-3/93                Supervision Mission. Project      Procurement                       6
Launch Workshop                  Disbursement
Enginecring
Economics
5-6/93                Supervision Mission. Focus on:                                      4
(a) resettlement subproject and (b)
project studies.
3/94                   Mid-term review. Emphasis on:    Economics                         8
(a) creation of water basin      Engineering
authority and (b) establishment of   Financial Analysis
water surcharge.
1994                  Two supervision missions.         Engineering                                         l
Review progress, including       Resettlement/Environment
approval of subprojects and      Economics
review of statement of
expenditures.
7/94                   Second workshop to discuss       Procurement                       4
project operational  including   Engineering
institutional management.        Economics
Resettlement
1995                  Tnree supervision missions.       Engineering                       10
Review progress (concentrate on    Economics
eligibility of subprojects,      Environment
procurement and project costs).
3/96                   Supervision mission. Thorough    Engineering                       6
review of project status and final   Economics
plans for completion.            Environment
1996                  Two supervision missions          Engineering                       8
(eligibility of subprojects,     Economics
procurement, monitoring of       Environment
environmental impact).
1997                  Two supervision missions.         Engineering                       8
Economics
1-3/98                Preparation of PCR.               Engineering/Economics             8



- 96 -
ANNEX21
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER QUALITY AND POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
*    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental nas Bacias Arrudas e Onca de Regiao Metropolitana de
Belo Horizonte, SEPLAN Minas Gerais, June, 1992. Includes:
Volume i - Diagnostico e Concepcao do Programa;
Vuiume 2 - Detalhamento Tecnico dos Projetos;
Volume 3 - Arranjo Institucior.al do Programa;
Volume 4 - Fontes de Poluicao - Analise;
Volume 5 - Documentacao Complemntar; and
Anexo - Projeto de Remocao e Reassentamento.
*    Economic Analysis, R. Seroa, June 1992.
*    EIA/RIMA Report, SEEBLA, 1991.
*    Diagnostico da Capacidade Institucional da FEAM, CONSIX, May 1992.
*    Industrial Activity Control - Technical Proposal, 2 volumes, Dagh Watson, June 1992.
*    Tratamento de Esgotos da Bacia do Riberao Arrudas- 5 volumes, SEEBLA.
*    Analise de Aguas do Riberao Arrudas- 2 vlumes, SEEBLA.
*    Relatorio sobre Proietos Executivos paia Canalizacao e Urbanizacao dos Riberoes Arrudas-
Trecho II e Onca, SUDECAP, June 1992.
*    Interceptores de Esgotos- Riberao Sarandi, COPASA-MG, 1991.
*    Plano de Atuacao para Esgotamento Sanitario na Bacia do Riberao Arrudas, COPASA-MG,
1991.
*    Plano Diretor de Esgotos da Area Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte. Impacto dos lanzamentos
sobre os Corpos Receptores. Estudo con Tracadores Radioactivos, SEEBLA.
*    Item as above. Estudos Especificos, SEEBLA.
*    Item as above. Quadros e Analises de Agua, SEEBLA.
*    Roteiro Basico para la Elaboracao do ETA/RIMA, SEEBTA, 1991.



- 97 -
ANNEX 21
Page 2 cf 2
*    Programa de Saneamento Ambiental das Bacias Arrudas e Onca da Regiao Metropolitana de
Belo Horizonte-Projeto Tecnico de Desapropiacao e Desfavelamento, SUDECAP, November
1991.



MAP SECTION



G_RD 2415,
COOBI; FAt44I0                                                                                          43
COLOMBIA VdENE%fLA(%awj ,            IL                     44'°°       0  VESPASIANO                        43 55*
) t   ,0    1    2                     3    4    5
I RIBE IRAO fQ4                                                                KILOME TRS
BFPAZIL                        DAS
9R tslA                                    NEVES                                                            SANTA   LUZIA
B}OLIVIA. *'4, >
'Y         c-.    * B.l, HoLi.o^h r 
* ARGENTINA/ .4,
\   iURuLGLA:y         A           r                              DA ONZA                 *        .'   _
910,                     ,f                 2WATER BASIN                                                                            ?     -N9
9°50'                                                                                                                                           9 -    *  >1 5
if%~          ,,                    \DA ONZA INTFRCEPTOR.  ,                                                                   )
V  %o--'                          -      ~~~~~~~~~r mpuma0 
9t;R f7'~~~~~~~~~~A,N                                                                       DA ,f->XONLA; 
;PAMPi;D-;U'iL" tULF JO*LOGIC, 7R           CHANNEL AND
~PAMPULBt~L~COLOGIC 'AKK        /  INTERCEP'TOR
V; 4 ATFR   .        SARANDI PART I
sA iN          CHANNEl AND INTERCEPIOR                                                                                          SA BARA
-CONTAGEM .
SEWERAGE   SPR 
i  >MPING    L 0 NDI`a.   .      wJ                                     O  N  T E
L 7* DIR                      BR 040 SANI    LANDFILL                           Arrud    R                                  9:5
0551  -i-A                                                                                                                     1 9 5
6                                          FiARANDI  FERRUGEm CHANNEL  I  A
\       N~~~TtcRCEPTOR  2zf ANb NlIERCEPTOR    ;                   RUA            
AGIA BRANCAARU                                                  S
INTERCEPTOR            6eI                        WATER BASIN
B E T IM                                                                ARRUDAS PART tl:
\v  4f--- CHANNEL AND
/  W  M >/   INTERCEPTOR                               I
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A   
J  /                                                         /                ~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS
WATER QUALITY AND
;t <POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
>00'                   F-   -  PROJECT                      20 0
00  \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo                                                                INTERCEPTORS
SEWAGE COLLECTORS
m ,,/  SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS
IBIRIT|                                                                                                  SANITARY LANDFILLS
IBIRITE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bl St 11
s       ,,                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTI!4G
K 4Jf                                       j     RVERS
* ,<.  WATER BASIN BOUNDARIES
BUILT-UP AREAS
-rmop ho, bon proportd by TE. Wortd Bo-k * off ..XI.soI i , I                                                   MUNCIPAL BOUNDARES
--i-nrone ol rod-d- on-dia for h. in-rnol use of Th. World
kGroup he denomirotons used ond rh bouTdhoes s.o_n or hh  v  t
do  -ot inrlply. o-  h. port f (Th. World Bo-l Gr-p, O)Ior  r 
.goltoosi of ony lerr,ory Of OrOy ndnor,rtor Oopetne of   J  i-                                      ---        NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A boundorresn  
440                           -IB2 RUMADINHO              ___        _                             43 55
OCTOBER 199



