Page  1
June 25, 1996
Mr. Joao Heraldo Lima
Secretary of Finance
State of Minas Gerais
Praga da Liberdade, s/no.
CEP 30.160-011 Belo Horizonte, M.G., BRAZIL
     Re.: BRAZIL - Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control
                   Project - Loan 3554-BR, Amendment to the Loan
                   Agreement
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the Agreement) between the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the State of Minas Gerais (the 
Borrower), dated February 1, 1993 for the above-captioned project.  We are pleased to 
inform you of our agreement to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 (1) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 1. 02. (1) "PMU" means the Project management unit established 
by the Borrower 
within the Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination 
for purposes of coordination of the 
Project, and referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement."
2.
Section 1.02 (p) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 1.02. (p) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between 
the Borrower, through the Financial Agent, and FEAM 
and MC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this  
Agreement."
 
3.
Section 1.02 (r) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 1.02. (r) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the 
agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower, through the Financial 
Agent, and MBH and COPASA pursuant to Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement."
 
4.
Section 3.01 (a) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3. 0 1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project  as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out and cause 
(through the  Subsidiary Loan Agreements and 
the Subsidiary Agreements, as the case may be) the 
Executing Entities to carry out 
the Project, as provided in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, 
engineering, sanitation, administrative and financial practices, and 
substantially in accordance 
with the corresponding benchmarks and monitoring  
indicators set forth in Schedule 7 of this 
Agreement, and shall provide or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other 
resources required for the Project."
5.
Section 3.01 (b) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.01. (b) The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the 
Financial Agent, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Financial Agency Agreement), whereby the 
Financial Agent shall undertake to 
transfer, on behalf of the Borrower, the proceeds of the Loan 
to the Executing 
Entities, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Subsidiary Agreements, as 
the case may be."
6.
Section 3.01 (c) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
Page  2
"Section 3.01. (c) The Borrower, through the Financial Agent, shall: (i) 
enter into 
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with MBH and COPASA (the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements) for 
the purposes of (A) relending to MBH and 
COPASA the portions of the proceeds of the Loan required 
by each of them to carry 
out the components of the Project under their respective responsibility,  and (B) the 
undertaking by MBH and COPASA of the obligations, set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement (including those in Schedule 6 to this Agreement), related to the 
carrying out of the 
components of the Project  under their respective 
responsibility, provided, however, that, with  respect to the carrying out of Part A of 
the Project, the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
may contain 
provisions allowing MBH to delegate to the Borrower the execution of such Part of the 
Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) enter into 
agreements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, with FEAM and MC (the Subsidiary 
Agreements) for the purpose of (A) 
transferring to FEAM and MC, on a grant 
basis, the portion of the proceeds of the Loan required 
by FEAM and MC to carry 
out the components of the Project under their responsibility; and (B) the 
undertaking by FEAM and MC of the obligations, set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement 
(including those in Schedule 6 to this Agreement), related to the 
carrying out of the components 
of the Project under FEAM's and MC's responsibility." 
 
7.
Section 3.03 and Section 3.03 (a) of the Agreement are amended to read as 
follows:
"Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, at least until the completion of the 
Project,:
(a)
maintain, within its Secretariat of Planning and General 
Coordination, the Project  management unit (the PMU), with staffing, responsibilities 
and functions (including the 
qualifications and experience of its 
manager), satisfactory to the Bank; and"
8.
Section 3.06 (a) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.06. (a) Not later than August 31, 1996, the Borrower shall 
prepare a plan, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to establish, not later than March 
15, 1997, the water basin management 
agency referred to in Part E.I of the Project 
and a water use surcharge in the Project Area which 
will provide the Borrower with 
additional revenues equivalent to at least the cost of operation 
of such agency."
 
9.
Sections 3.09 (a) and (b) of the Agreement are amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than July 31, 1996, 
furnish to the 
Bank a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
implementation of the program included in Part 
E. 5 of the Project; and (ii) 
approve, not later than December 31, 1996, regulations to enforce  the industrial 
pollution control measures under such program."
"Section 3.09. (b) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 1996, 
present to the Bank a 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of Part 
E.6 of the Project."
10.
Section 3. 1 0 (a) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than March 31 and 
September 30 of each 
year, a report of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request (including 
the benchmarks and monitoring indicators 
set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement), on the 
execution of the Project 
and the compliance by the Borrower and the Executing Entities of their 
respective 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Subsidiary 
Agreements, as the case may be;"
11.
A new Section 4.02 is added to Article IV, Financial Covenants:
 
"Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause COPASA to increase its average 
rate per cubic 
meter of water supplied to at least the equivalent of 
sixty-five cents of a Dollar and thereafter  
maintain such rate at that level until 
Page  3
the completion of the Project."
12.
Section 5.01 (a) of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section 5.01. (a) MBH or COPASA shall have failed to perform any of 
their obligations 
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement or FEAM or MC shall have 
failed to perform any of their 
obligations under a Subsidiary Agreement;"
 
13.
The table in Paragraph I of Schedule I to the Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
"Categories              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works             111,500,000         42% of expenditures
                                                incurred until
                                                March 31, 1996,
                                                and 69% of
                                                expenditures
                                                incurred thereafter
(2) Goods                    16,300,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expenditu-
                                                res (ex-factory cost),
                                                and 42% of local
                                                expenditures for other
                                                items procured locally
(3) Consultants'             17,200,000         85% of local
    Services                                    expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                consultants domi-
                                                ciled within the
                                                territory of the
                                                Guarantor and 100%
                                                of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of other
                                                consultants
                           ____________
Total                      145,000,000"
                           ____________
14.
A new paragraph is added to Schedule I to the Agreement to read as follows:
 
"4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of 
statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for 
works costing less than five 
million dollars ($5,000,000) equivalent, for 
goods costing less than two hundred and fifty 
thousand dollars ($250,000) 
equivalent, for services of consulting firms costing less than one 
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent, and for services of individual 
consultants 
costing less than fifty thousands dollars ($50,000) equivalent, 
all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower."
15.
Section II of Schedule 4 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
"Section II. Employment of Consultants.
1.   In order to assist the Borrower and the Executing Entities in the 
carrying out of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ, and shall cause to be 
employed, consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
Page  4
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For 
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
consultants 
using the standard forms of contract for consultants services issued by the Bank, 
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard 
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower 
shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Bank.
 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of 
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall 
not apply to: 
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, this 
exception to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference 
for such contracts; (b) single source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above."
16.
Schedule 7 to the Agreement is amended in its entirety as set forth in the Annex 
to this letter of amendment.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
both originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  
This amendment shall enter into effect on the date of receipt by the Bank of one 
original of this letter signed by you and of confirmation in writing by the Borrower 
that COPASA's average rate per cubic meter of water supplied has been increased at 
least to the equivalent of sixty-five cents of a Dollar.  A copy of this letter is 
being sent to the Minister of Finance of Brazil as representative of the Guarantor, 
the Federative Republic of Brazil, to SEAIN, and the Secretary for Planning and 
General Coordination for the State of Minas Gerais.
Yours sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Eduardo Aceredo
       Governor State of Minas Gerais
       Authorized Representative
Date:
