Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3554 BR
Loan Agreement
(Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
Dated February 1, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3554 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MINAS GERAIS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"COPASA" means Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, the Borrower's 
Water Utility;
(b)
"COPASA Financial Plan" means the financial plan for COPASA referred to 
in a letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith, as such Plan may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(c)
"Cruzeiro" means the currency of the Guarantor;
 
(d)
"Executing Entity" means any one of the following: MBH, MC, COPASA and 
FEAM;
(e)
"FEAM" means Fundacao Estadual do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's 
Environmental Agency;
(f)
"Financial Agency Agreement" means the agreement, referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, between the Borrower and the Financial Agent;
(g)
"Financial Agent" means Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais - BDMG, 
the Borrower's Development Bank, or any other financial institution, acceptable to the 
Bank, selected by the Borrower to participate in the execution of the Project as its 
financial agent;
(h)
"MBH" means the municipality of Belo Horizonte; 
 
(i)
"MC" means the municipality of Contagem;
 
(j)
"Metropolitan Belo Horizonte" means the area comprising the 
municipalities of Belo Horizonte, Betim, Brumadinho, Caete, Contagem, Esmeraldas, 
Ibirite, Igarape, Lagoa Santa, Mateus Leme,
Nova Lima, Pedro Leopoldo, Raposos, Ribeirao das Neves, Rio Acima, Sabara, Santa Luzia 
and Vespasiano;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, approved by the Borrower on 
December 4, 1992, containing the technical, environmental, financial and economic 
requirements and design criteria applicable to the Subprojects;
(l)
"PMU" means the Project management unit established by the Borrower 
within the Financial Agent for purposes of coordination of the Project, and referred 
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Area" means the Arrudas, Onca and Vargem das Flores water 
basins, an area located within the Metropolitan Belo Horizonte;
Page  3
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"Subproject" means any of the projects under Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project;
(p)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through the Financial Agent, and FEAM pursuant Section 3.01 (d) of this 
Agreement;
(q)
"Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided under a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
(r)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower, through the Financial Agent, and MBH, MC and COPASA 
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and forty five million 
Dollars ($145,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Page  4
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
 
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out and cause (through the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Subsidiary Agreement, as 
the case may be) the Executing Entities to carry out the Project, as provided in the 
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, engineering, sanitation, 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the Financial Agent, 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Financial Agency Agreement), 
whereby the Financial Agent shall undertake to transfer, on behalf of the Borrower, 
the proceeds of the Loan to the Executing Entities under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements and the Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be, and to maintain, within 
the Financial Agent's organization, until the completion of the Project, the PMU.
(c)
The Borrower, through the Financial Agent, shall: (i) enter into 
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with MBH, MC and COPASA (the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements) for the purposes of: (A) relending to MBH, MC and COPASA the portions of 
the proceeds of the Loan required by each of them to carry out the components of the 
Project under their respective responsibility; and (B) the undertaking by MBH, MC and 
COPASA of the obligations, set forth or referred to in this Agreement (including those 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement), related to the carrying out of the components of the 
Page  5
Project under their respective responsibility, provided, however, that, with respect 
to the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement may contain provisions allowing MBH and MC to 
delegate to the Borrower the execution of such Part of the Project, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) enter into an agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with FEAM (the Subsidiary Agreement) for the purposes of: (A) transferring 
to FEAM, on a grant basis, the portion of the proceeds of the Loan  required by FEAM 
to carry out the components of the Project under its responsibility; and (B) the 
undertaking by FEAM of the obligations, set forth or referred to in this Agreement 
(including those in Schedule 6 to this Agreement), related to the carrying out of the 
components of the Project under FEAM's
responsibility.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financial Agency 
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of such agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(b)
Standard bidding documents and letters of invitation satisfactory to the 
Bank shall be utilized in the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services 
(as applicable) required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, at least during the execution of the Project:
(a)
maintain the Project management unit (the PMU) with staffing, 
responsibilities and functions (including the qualifications and experience of its 
manager), satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
provide promptly as needed all the funds, facilities, staff and resources 
required by the PMU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a timely and 
efficient manner.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Executing Entities to, 
design, carry out and monitor each of the Subprojects in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual.
Section 3.05. When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, the 
Borrower, through PMU, shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) an appraisal of the Subproject, and a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; (ii) a detailed description of how such Subproject meets the requirements and 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and (iii) such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request in respect of such Subproject.
Section 3.06. (a) Not later than April 30, 1994, the Borrower shall prepare a 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to establish, not later than September 30, 1994, the 
water basin management agency referred to in Part E.1 of the Project and a water use 
surcharge in the Project Area which will provide the Borrower with additional revenues 
equivalent to at least the cost of operation of such agency.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out such plan in a manner and according to a 
timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, in a manner and according to a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank, a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, to complete the resettlement activities under 
Subprojects.
Page  6
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
studies included in Parts E.1, E.2 and E.4 of the Project under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, where appropriate, the preparation of 
draft plans of action or programs to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 of this Agreement; (b) promptly upon the completion of each such study, 
furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations, and programs or plans 
of action; (c) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings 
and recommendations; (d) exchange views with the Bank on such finding  and 
recommendations; (e) prepare programs or plans of
action satisfactory to the Bank, based on the conclusions of such exchange of views; 
and (f) carry out or cause to be carried out such programs or plans of action in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than August 31, 1993, 
furnish to the Bank a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of 
the program included in Part E.5 of the Project; and (ii) put into effect, not later 
than August 31, 1994, regulations to enforce the industrial pollution control measures 
under such program.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1993, present to the Bank a 
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of Part E.6 of the Project.
Section 3.10. Without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than March 31 and September 30 
of each year, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request (including the monitoring indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement), on the execution of the Project and the compliance by the Borrower and the 
Executing Entities of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be;
(b)
not later than March 31, 1994, exchange views with the Bank, the 
Guarantor and the Executing Entities with regard to the progress of the execution of 
the Project and the attainment of its
objectives and on the performance by the Borrower and the Executing Entities of their 
respective obligations under the agreements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section; and
(c)
at least 30 days prior to the exchange of views referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, the funding of Project-related 
activities and the performance by the Borrower and the Executing Entities of their 
respective obligations under the agreements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section.
Section 3.11. Not later than two months after the Effective Date and not later 
than May 30, 1994, the Borrower shall conduct Project workshops, under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, to train the Borrower's and the Executing 
Entities' staff on the procurement, monitoring and auditing requirements under this 
Agreement.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take all measures which, in the opinion of the 
Bank, are necessary to enable COPASA to carry out the COPASA Financial Plan in a 
timely manner, as provided in the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement for COPASA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause the Executing Entities to, 
maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the Executing Entities and the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  7
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if the events 
specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) hereof shall have occurred or be continuing, 
the suspension by the Bank of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect of Project expenditures may be limited by the Bank to withdrawals 
related to the relevant Executing Entity or Entities:
(a)
MBH, MC or COPASA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement or FEAM shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any of the Executing Entities will be able to perform its obligations under the 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of an Executing Entity or the 
Financial Agent or for the suspension
of the operations of any of them; and
(d)
the Financial Agent shall have failed to comply with any of its 
Page  8
obligations under the Financial Agency Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil;
(b)
that the Financial Agency Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and 
the Subsidiary Agreement have been duly executed and delivered by the respective 
parties to such agreements; and
(c)
that consultants to carry out the study to prepare the program referred 
to in Part E.5 of the Project, acceptable to the Bank, have been hired under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil;
(b)
that the Financial Agency Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and 
the Subsidiary Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and are legally 
binding upon, the respective parties to such agreements in accordance with their 
terms; and
(c)
that all acts, consents and approvals, together with all necessary powers 
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and 
that no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the 
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the Guarantor to perform 
all of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations
contained in this Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.03. The date May 4, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado da Fazenda of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  9
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
Praca da Liberdade, s/no.
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 30.160-011
Telex:
31-8242
with copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
   da Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento
   e Coordenacao Geral da Presidencia da
   Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco K - 5o andar
Brasilia, Distrito Federal 70.063
Telex:
61-2207
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Helio Carvalho Garcia
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  10
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works              111,500,000        42%
(2) Goods                     16,300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 42%
                                                of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(3) Consultants'              17,200,000        85% of local
    Services                                    expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                consultants
                                                domiciled within
                                                the territory
                                                of the Guarantor
                                                and 100% of
                                                foreign expen-
                                                ditures for ser-
                                                vices of other
                                                consultants
                             ___________
         TOTAL               145,000,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$5,000,000, may be made for payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
July 1, 1992; 
(b)
expenditures in connection with contracts signed before the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect of expenditures under such 
contracts if the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of 
$20,000,000;
(c)
any Subproject, unless such Subproject has been approved by the Bank; and
 
(d)
expenditures for civil works, equipment and materials under Parts B.4 and 
B.8 of the Project, unless the study to prepare the program referred to in Part E.5 of 
the Project has been carried
out.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to recuperate the environmentally deteriorated 
basins of the Arrudas and Onca rivers in the Metropolitan Belo Horizonte, including: 
Page  11
(a) the development of institutional capabilities to manage such water basins in an 
environmentally sustainable way through the introduction of modern land use 
incentives, cost recovery mechanisms, and an efficient legal and regulatory framework; 
and (b) the improvement of the quality of life of the inhabitants of the above 
mentioned basins, through the rehabilitation and expansion of basic sanitation 
infrastructure, housing improvement and park development in MBH and MC.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Flood Control and Urban Drainage
 
Subprojects for flood control and urban drainage consisting of earthwork, 
construction of a channel, drains and paved roads in a extension of about:
1.
6.9 kilometers along the Arrudas river in MBH, from the existing channel in 
Leste-Oeste Avenue to the Ferrugem creek;
2.
2.7 kilometers along the da Onca river in MBH, from Cristiano Machado Avenue to 
Pintor Renato Lima Street;
3.
3.6 kilometers along the Sarandi creek in MC, from the existing channel in Belo 
Horizonte to the channel under construction by MC; and
4.
3.4 kilometers along the Ferrugem creek in MC, from the discharge of such creek 
in the Arrudas river to the existing works in the Agua Branca creek.
Part B:
Sewerage
 
Subprojects for municipal and industrial sewerage collection and disposal, 
consisting of:
1.
construction of about 6 kilometers of sewer interceptors along the Agua Branca 
and Ferrugem creeks, connecting with sewer interceptors along the Arrudas river;
2.
construction of about 13.7 kilometers of sewer interceptors along the Arrudas 
river, from the discharge of the interceptors referred to in paragraph 1 above to the 
existing interceptors along the Arrudas river in Leste-Oeste Avenue;
3.
installation of sewage pumping from the Vargem das Flores water basin to the 
Arrudas water basin, in MC, including the construction of about 59.4 kilometers of 
sewers, 2,500 sewerage connections, 12.7 kilometers of interceptors, 3 booster pumping 
stations, 3.6 kilometers of pressure mains and 2.6  kilometers of transmission pipes;
4.
construction of a 4.5 cubic meters per second sewage treatment plant in Arrudas, 
consisting of primary treatment, including sludge conditioning and disposal;
5.
construction of about 26 kilometers of sewer interceptors along the Sarandi 
river in MC, from the springs to the existing interceptors in MBH;
6.
construction of about 149 kilometers of sewers and about 11,200 sewerage 
connections in the da Onca water basin;
7.
construction of about 13 kilometers of sewer interceptors along the da Onca 
river, from the Pampulha reservoir to the existing sewage treatment plant; and
8.
construction of a 3.9 cubic meters per second sewage treatment plant in da Onca, 
consisting of primary treatment, including sludge conditioning and disposal.
Part C:
Solid Wastes
 
Subprojects for municipal and industrial solid wastes collection and disposal, 
consisting of:
1.
improvements to MBH's solid wastes collection, including the rehabilitation of a 
composting plant and the biogass production facilities, acquisition and utilization of 
Page  12
solid wastes collection equipment, and studies related thereto;
2.
improvements to MC's solid wastes collection, including the acquisition and 
utilization of solid wastes collection equipment, and studies related thereto; and
3.
construction of a sanitary landfill at Perobas to attend the city and industrial 
area of MC and the Sarandi water basin. 
Part D:
Environmental Protection
 
Subprojects for environmental protection and urban land use, consisting of:
1.
urbanization of the Arrudas valley, including the construction of a park and 
other recreational areas, and arborization;
2.
construction of an ecologic park in an island in the Pampulha reservoir, 
including the infrastructure needed to protect such reservoir; and
3.
arborization, recuperation of degraded areas, erosion control, control of the 
use of agrochemicals and environmental education and monitoring in the Vargem das 
Flores water basin.
Part E:
Waterbasin Management
 
1.
Studies for, and organization of, the public and government consultation process 
needed to develop the proposal for the creation of a water basin management agency for 
the Metropolitan Belo
Horizonte.
2.
Preparation of an environmental master plan for the Arrudas and Onca 
waterbasins, integrating sectoral plans for land use, sewerage and solid waste 
collection and disposal, industrial and mining development and water quality 
improvement.
3.
Training programs for waterbasin environmental management, technical and 
financial support to non-governmental organizations and technical assistance to MBH 
and MC to meet their environmental planning and management needs.
4.
Water quality and pollution control studies for the das Velhas river.
 
5.
A program for industrial pollution control in the Metropolitan Belo Horizonte.
 
6.
Institutional strengthening of FEAM.
 
Part F:
Project Management and Coordination
 
Provision of technical assistance and acquisition and utilization of equipment 
and materials to manage and coordinate the overall execution of Parts A through E of 
the Project, including monitoring and auditing activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
The responsibilities for the carrying out of the several components of the 
Project shall be as follows:
Part of the Project                       Responsible Entity(ies)
      A.1 and A.2                               MBH
      A.3 and A.4                               MC
      B                                         COPASA
      C.1                                       MBH
      C.2 and C.3                               MC
      D.1                                       MBH and MC
Page  13
      D.2                                       MBH
      D.3                                       MC
      E                                         FEAM
      F                                         Financial Agent
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning on April 15, 1998
through October 15, 2007
7,250,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  14
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent to $250,000 and $5,000,000, 
respectively.
Part B: 
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with the provisions of Guidelines, provided however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the two 
following groups:
(i)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and 
the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in 
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
completed goods.
 
(ii)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among themselves, without taking 
into account custom duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bid shall then be 
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A 
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. (cost, insurance, freight) bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the evaluated 
bid price of goods supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal 
to the smaller of: (A) the amount of
Page  15
custom duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in 
such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid included in 
group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or (B) 15% of 
the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If as a result of this comparison, the bid 
from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the lowest 
evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be selected 
for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods and civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of$250,000 and $5,000,000 
or less, respectively, per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$8,000,000 for goods and $30,000,000 for civil works, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Part A of this Section, and the first two contracts for goods and works to be awarded 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the Guarantor's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the 
Merchant Marine (Adicional
ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante) established by Decree-Law 1,142 of 
December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, and any other tax, levy or charge 
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, 
after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and the Executing Entities in the carrying out 
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ and shall cause to be employed consultants 
whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981, provided, however, that for the employment of consultants costing the 
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000, the Borrower will not have to obtain the Bank's prior approval except for 
their respective terms of reference.
SCHEDULE 5
Page  16
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  17
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Schedule 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and the Subsidiary Agreement
I.
Financial Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements:
 
1.
The repayment and grace periods of the Subsidiary Loans shall not be longer than 
the repayment and grace periods of the Loan.
2.
The Subsidiary Loans shall be denominated in Dollars indicating its equivalency 
in Cruzeiros as of the date of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the principal, 
interest and other charges thereon shall be paid in Cruzeiros on the basis of the 
exchange rate between both currencies on the date of each payment.
3.
The interest rate applicable to the Subsidiary Loans shall be the interest rate 
applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement plus a margin 
equal to 0.5% per annum.
4.
MBH, MC and COPASA shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time at the same rate of the commitment 
charge payable by the Borrower to the Bank under the Loan Agreement, such commitment 
charge to accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement.
II.
Provisions to be included in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Subsidiary 
Agreement:
1.
The Executing Entities shall carry out the components of the Project under their 
responsibility as provided in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement and shall, where 
applicable, comply with the obligations set forth or referred to in Sections 3.02, 
3.04, 3.08, 3.10 (b) and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
2.
(a)
Each Executing Entity shall undertake to insure, or make adequate 
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery 
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity 
Page  18
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Executing Entity to
replace or repair such goods; and (b) except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, each Executing Entity shall cause all goods and services financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the components of the Project 
being carried out by each such Executing Entity.
3.
With respect to each Subproject being carried out by each Executing Entity, each 
such Executing Entity shall: (a) furnish to the Borrower, through PMU, and, if so 
requested, make available to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, 
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and procurement schedules 
for each such Subproject, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto; 
(b) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of 
each such Subproject (including the cost and the benefits to be derived from each such 
Subproject), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and to disclose their use in each Subproject; and (c) enable the authorized 
representatives of the Bank and the Borrower to visit the facilities and construction 
sites included in each such Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents in respect of each such 
Subproject.
4.
Each Executing Entity shall furnish to the Borrower, two months after each 
semester during the execution of the Project, a progress report (containing all such 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request through the Borrower) concerning each 
component of the Project carried out or being carried out by such Executing Agency, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits and results to be derived from it, the 
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of such 
proceeds.
5.
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank,
each Executing Entity shall prepare a report satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower 
on the execution of the component or components of the Project carried out by each 
Executing Entity.
6.
Each Executing Entity shall carry out the components of the Project under its 
responsibility on the basis of the monitoring indicators set forth in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement.
7.
Where applicable, each Executing Entity shall: (a) at all times take the 
necessary steps to maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to 
acquire and retain all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful for the purpose of 
complying with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Subsidiary 
Agreement, as the case may be, or for the efficient conduct of its business and 
undertaking; (b) at all times operate and maintain the plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property owned or operated by it and promptly make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility 
practices; and (c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the 
property or assets owned or operated by it, if such sale, lease, transfer or other 
disposition would materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the 
Project.
8.
Each Executing Entity shall make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and the 
Borrower for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practices.
9.
Each Executing Entity shall appoint, and retain until the completion of the 
Project, a person, with qualifications, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank and the Borrower, to
coordinate within such Entity the carrying out of the components of the Project under 
such Entity's responsibility.
10.
The Borrower shall suspend disbursements under the respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements or the Subsidiary Agreement if the respective Executing Entity fails to 
comply with any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the 
Subsidiary Agreement, as the case may be.
Page  19
11.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement for COPASA shall contain the obligation of COPASA 
to carry out the COPASA Financial Plan in a timely manner and the obligation of the 
Borrower to take all measures necessary to enable COPASA to carry out such Plan.
