                                              Document of
                                          The WorldBank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                  Report No: 25768-BR




                                PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$4.8 MILLION

                                     TO THE STATE OF             A

                                 WITH THE GUARANTEEOF THE

                               FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                               FORTHE

                              AMAPASUSTAINABLECOMMUNITIES

                                               PROJECT




BrazilCountryManagementUnit
Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopment Unit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosed without WorldBank authorization.             I

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate EffectiveNovember, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                       R $ l = US$0.35
                                      US$1 = R$2.86

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1  --December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAP     DevelopmentAgency ofAmaph State
AFAP     Amaph State DevelopmentBank
AMASOL   Amapa Peoples' Solidarity Credit Progam
APC      Agency for the PromotionofCitizenship
CAESA    Amapa State Water and Sewerage Company
CAS      CountryAssistance Strategy
CQ       SelectionBasedon Consultants'Qualifications
EMP      EnvironmentalManagementPlan
IBAMA    BrazilianEnvironmentandRenewableNaturalResourcesInstitute
ICB      InternationalCompetitiveBidding
IDB      InterAmericanDevelopmentBank
IEPA     Amapa StateResearchInstitute
LCS      Least-Cost Selection
NBF      Non-BankFinanced
NCB      NationalCompetitiveBidding
Other    Selectionof Individual Consultants
PC       ProjectCouncil
PCU      ProjectCoordinationUnit
PDA      DemonstrationProjects (Type A)
PDSA     Amapa SustainableDevelopmentProgram
QBS      Quality-basedSelection
QCBS     Quality- andCost-BasedSelection
RESEX    ExtractiveReserves Project
RFPP     RainForestPilotProgram
RPAP     RuralPovertyAlleviation Project
SEBRAE   SmallandMedium-sizeEnterprise Support Service
SEMA     Amaph State EnvironmentSecretariat
SEPLAN   Amapa State PlanningSecretariat
SEW      Amaph StateUrbanInfrastructure Secretariat
ZEE      Ecological-economiczonhg

                             Vice President:     Davidde Ferranti
                   BrazilCountryDirector:        VinodThomas
                    LCSES Sector Director:       JohnRedwood
                             Sector Leader:      Luiz GabrielAzevedo
                            Sector Manager:      Abel Mejia
                        Task Team Leaders:       Maria-Valkria PendJosefLeitmann

                                                   BRAZIL FORO F F I W USEONLY
                                  AMAPA SUSTAINABLECOMMUNITIES


                                                  CONTENTS




     A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page

        1. Project development objective                                                    3
        2. Key performance indicators                                                       3

     B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-relatedCountry Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project      3
        2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       4
        3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project andstrategic choices                  6

     C. Project Description Summary

        1. Project components                                                               7
        2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                     12
        3. Benefits andtarget population                                                    12
        4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13

     D.ProjectRationale

        1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                          14
        2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies      16
        3. Lessonslearned andreflectedinthe projectdesign                                   16
        4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                 18
        5. Value addedof Bank support inthis project                                        18

     E. Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                         18
        2. Financial                                                                        19
        3. Technical                                                                        19
        4. Institutional                                                                    20
        5. Environmental                                                                    23
        6. Social                                                                           25
        7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                27

     F. Sustainability and Risks

        1. Sustainability                                                                   28
This document has a restricted distribution andmay beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  2. Criticalrisks                                                 29
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                30


G. Main LoanConditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                       31
  2. Other                                                         31

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                     31

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                       32



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                    33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                              39
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                    61
Annex 4: Partial Cost-Benefit Analysis                             62
Annex 5: FinancialSummary                                          64
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                              66
          (B)FinancialManagementandDisbursement Arrangements       68
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                74
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                              75
Annex 9: StatementofLoansandCredits                                76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                      80
Annex 11: AmapB Poverty Profile                                    82
Annex 12: Organizational Structure for Project CoordinationUnit    88
Annex 13: Special Groups InclusionStrategy                         89
Annex 14: Environment-Related Provisions                           106




IBRDMap No. 33713

                                                     BRAZIL
                                         AmapL SustainableCommunities
                                       Project AppraisalDocument
                                        LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion
                                                     LCSEO

Date: October 28, 2004                                  Team Leader: Maria-ValeriaPena
Sector ManagerElirector: JohnRedwood                    Sector(s): General agriculture, fishingand forestry sector
Country ManagerElirector: Vinod Thomas                  (30%), Generalwater, sanitation and flood protection sector
Project ID: PO76924                                     (30%), Sub-national government administration (30%),
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)       Mkro- and SME finance (10%)
                                                        Theme(s): Other rural development (P), Other urban
                                                        development (P), Other environment andnatural resources
                                                        management (P), Small and mediumenterprise support (P),
                                                        Other social development (S).


 [XI Loan       [ ] Credit       [ ]Grant      [ ]Guarantee       [ ]Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: UnitedStatesDollar
Amount (US$m):4.8
BorrowerRationalefor Choice of LoanTerms Available on File:         Yes
ProposedTerms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 7                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitmentfee: 0.75%                                   Frontend fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 0.50%
                                                       Paymentfor FEF: Capitalize from LoanProceeds

Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
 [ ] Fixedat Commitment,with thefollowingrepayment method(chooseone):
 [XI Linkedto Disbursement
                                                               I
FinancingPlan (US$m):           Source                               Local           Foreign             Total
BORROWER                                                                                                    2.01
IBRD                                                                    4.80



Borrower: AMAPA STATE
Responsibleagency: AGENCIA DEDESENVOLVIMENTODOAMAPA(ADAP)
AmapL Development Agency (ADAP)
Address: Rua CLndido Mendes, 1111, MacapL, AmapL 68900-050
Contact Person: Jose de Ribamar Quintas, President
Tel: 55 96 212-1195                 Fax: 55 96 212-1196               Email: adapdpjj@hotmail.com
Other Agency(ies):
State Development Bank (AFAP)
Address: Rua CLndido Mendes, 1111, Macapd, Amapd 68900-050
Contact Person: Ivaldo Dantas
Tel: 55 96 222-7976                 Fax: 55 96 222-7978               Email: afap@afap.ap.gov.br

I Estimated Disbursement in US$m Eauivalent (Bank FY/Semestersl:                I
                  FY     2005     2006          2007        2008
       Source          Sem. 1      Sem. 1      Sem. 1      Sem. 1
                       Sem. 2      Sem.2       Sem.2       Sem. 2




  Expectedeffectiveness date: 02/20/2005     Expectedclosingdate: 06/30/2009




                                                       - 2 -

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
The goal o f the project is to learn lessons about Amazon-specific approaches to reduce urban and rural
poverty through measures that are environmentally sustainable, economically efficient and socially
equitable. Specific objectives include generating.knowledge about how to:

0   Reduce rural poverty through better               access to    social services,    basic   infrastructure,
    environmentally-sound productive activities, and credit;
0   Reduce urban poverty by focusing on economic and social development in low-income
    neighborhoods;
0   Integrate socioeconomic development and environmental conservation at the local level through
    MunicipalDevelopment Fora; and
0   Create social capital through strengthened community organizations, capacity-building,                and
    stakeholder participation indecision-making andresponsibility for managing public resources;
0   Develop citizenship through training, participation of minority groups, local empowerment, and
    environmentally-sensitivedecision-making.

The intention of the State is to then scale up these lessonsthrough a second project.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Overall project impact will be gauged by the extent to which usefd lessons, both positive and negative,
have been generated for how to improve the livelihood o f urban and rural poor in Amaph. Key project
performance indicators would include informationand experiences concerning:

    Creation of additional employment through investment inrural and urban economic activities;
    Improved well-being and income of beneficiaries through economic, environmental and social
    investments;
    Improvement of micro-creditto support productiveinvestments inurban areas;
    Planning, implementation and maintenance of community-level socioeconomic and environmental
    investments by beneficiaries;
    Geographic decentralization of economic activities and decision-making;
    Partnerships between community groups and the private sector, public authorities andNGOs;
    Increased community awareness about more sustainable and economically efficient practices for using
    natural resources;
    Increasedrepresentationandattention to ethnic groups, minorities, women, and adolescents.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:27043-BR           Date of latest CAS discussion: The "A More Equitable, Sustainable, and Competitive
Brazil Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007" was discussedby the Boardo f ExecutiveDirectors on December 9,
2003.
The loan, programmedunder the CAS Sustainability pillar, will also directly contribute to a more equitable
Brazil. The CAS recognizesthat the Amazon is a diverse regionthat faces an equally complex set o f
challengesthat the project i s designedto meet, particularly those derived from a lack o f consensus about
the roadtowards development; rapidurbanization andpoor quality of life incities; deforestation; a lack of



                                                     - 3 -

clarity about the role of indigenous peoplesandAfro-descendentcommunities inpromoting development;
and finally, poor governance, unclear norms, and low institutionalcapacity. Inaddition, the project draws
from lessonsyielded by thejourney that the Bank hastravelled inBrazil, emphasizedinthe CAS, as
strengthening institutions but not making them dependent onBank assistance, maintaininga poverty
reduction andparticipatory focus, and safeguarding cultural and ethnic diversity.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector issues:

Amaph i s a poor, rapidly growing and relatively new state located inthe Amazon basin. 42% o f the state's
population, or 198,341 people, were considered to be poor in 2000. (There is no official poverty line in
Brazil; this analysis assumedthat a household was poor ifthe head earned less than 1.5 minimumsalaries
inurbanareas or oneminimumsalary inruralareas.) This poverty isprimarily locatedinurbanareas, even
after reclassifying a number of urban districts and municipalities as "rural" due to their size, spatial and
other characteristics. This resulted in 153,418 urban poor and 44,923 rural poor. Infact, 82% o f Amaph's
poor are concentrated in the three largest municipalities: the capital o f Macaph (55% o f all poor in
Amapi), the adjacent city of Santana (20%) and the riverine slum of Laranjal do Jari (7%). Duringproject
preparation, a poverty profile was prepared that allows for targeting the poorest municipalities, districts
and neighborhoods (in the case o f Macapi), based on a combination o f income, access to water and
sanitation, education level, and literacy. The results o f this analysis can be found in Annex 11. Thus,
addressingpoverty, especially urbanpoverty, i s a critical issue for the state. At the same time, it should be
kept inmindthat a higher percentageofrural dwellers are poor (47%) than those living incities and towns
(41%).

Between 1996 and 2000, Amaph's population grew at a rate o f nearly 6% annually, reaching a total of
nearly 475,000 residents. Duringthe same period, Brazil's Northern region grew at 3.3% per annum and
the national population growth rate was 1.9%. Growth has been fostered by poor economic conditions in
nearby Northeastern and Northern states, as well as perceived opportunities such as the creation o f a free
trade zone and new settlements through land distribution. Much of this growth occurred in Amaph's cities
and towns: 81% o f the population was urban in 1991 and this figure reached 89% in 2000. Thus, while
Amaph has a relatively low population density of 3.3 inhabitants per km', most people are concentrated in
urban areas. Assuming that the state's highgrowth rate has continued, the population shouldreach 566,000
in 2003. Therefore, a second issue faced by Amapi is the challenge of rapid growth, including
urbanization.

While parts o f Amaph were first settled by non-indigenous people in the 17thcentury, Amaph only made
the move from federal territory to statehood in 1988. The state's first democratically elected governor did
not take power until 1991. Even after becoming a state, some o f the territorial characteristics persist: a
significant dependence on budget transfers from the federal government, relatively weak public institutions,
an inability to implement a development policy, limited availability of infrastructure and services,
concentration of power in a large public sector, and the absence o f significant investment by the private
sector. On top of this, Amapi i s physically located inthe extreme north o f the country. Its road network i s
underdeveloped and the state's primary connection with the rest o f Brazil is via waterways and air
transport. Thus, a third issue i s how to promote development ina relatively new and isolated state.

Amapi's economy is based on natural resources: mining, timber, extractivism (principally rubber, Brazil
nuts andpalmhearts), tree plantations, fishing, livestock, subsistenceagriculture, andtrade. While muchof
this activity occurs in the Amazon rainforest, the state also possesses savanna, floodplain and coastal



                                                     - 4 -

ecosystems that are rich in terms of biodiversity and environmental services. Amaph's rainforest is one of
the best-preserved inBrazil, with 99% still intact. Logging i s no longer a significant economic activity; the
primary threats to the forest now come fiom the expansion of cattle ranching, unregulated land
development and fires. The final sectoral issue, then, i s how to preserve the state's rich environmental
heritage while promoting economic developmentthat helpsto alleviate poverty.

Government stratew:

The current state administration, which assumed office in January 2003, is focusing on an overall goal o f
development with socialjustice. Policies andprograms are beingshapedby four strategic lines of action:

0    Economic growth that eliminates dependence while stimulating the production of goods and wealth
     within the state;
0    Integrationto reduce social and institutional disparities within the state and between the state and the
     Northernregion;
0    Responsible government that is comprised of transparent decision-making, allocative efficiency,
     environmental balance, respect for cultural heritage, and fiscaljustice; and
0    Solidarity so that state actions increasingly contribute to human development and socialjustice.

These strategic elements have been operationalized inspecific sectoral policies. The project would support
a specific sub-set o f these policies including: helpingto overcome economic dependence by boosting local
production; contributing to human dignity through increasing employment and income; supporting
initiatives that would improve quality o f life for the least well-oft protecting cultural minorities; promoting
social inclusion through poverty reduction and capacity-building activities; improving governance through
transparent decision-making procedures and an administrative reform process; supporting progress with
environmental conservation.

These policies seek to address some of the limitations faced by the previous two-term administration
without discarding the useful elements of the previous government's efforts. They are also linked within the
Government's strategy to sources of intemal and external finance. The World Bank i s explicitly mentioned
inthe Government'splanningas akey source ofexternal resources.

The previous administration pursued a Sustainable Development Program (PDSA) that sought to break
with past development models by the state's comparative advantageswithinthe Amazon: its natural wealth,
possibilities for international commerce and relations, ecological biodiversity, and cultural identify. The
PDSA was basedon six lines of action:

J        Economic strengthening by diversifying and decentralizing economic activities, increasing added
         value, improving economic infrastructure, broadening access to credit and incentives, economic
         integration, technological modernization, andpromotiono f ecotourism;
J        Promotion of social equity through employment generation, improved income distribution,
         guaranteeing basic consumption, and better access and quality o f public services and
         infrastructure;
J        Environmental management by improving urban conditions, developing actions to control and
         prevent environmental degradation, sharing responsibility for natural resource management,
         supporting sustainableproduction incritical ecosystems, and recoveringdegradedareas;
J        Capacity building via raised educational standards, professional training, dissemination of
         knowledge and technology, institutional development of community organizations, and stakeholder



                                                       - 5 -

         participation;
J         Scientific and technologicaldevelopment with instruments to support R & D, responsiveness to
          demand-driven scientific solutions, increased scientific cooperation, and development o f
         technologies at the regional level; and
J        Institutional strengthening through administrative decentralization, municipal strengthening,
                                                                                  .
          federal-state-local coordination, andhuman resourcedevelopment inthe public service.

The PDSA yielded important results in terms of governance, rural development, urban infrastructure, and
environmental management. Governancewas improvedthrough: a) strengthening of participatory planning;
b) creation o f an integrated financial management system for the state and its municipalities; and c)
implementation o f a modernized tax collection system. Environmentally-sensitive rural development was
pursued through support for agroforestry systems, extractivist activities, artisanal fishing, agro-industries,
appropriate technologies, and rural extension. Urban infrastructure and services were improved through
increases in electricity generation and distribution and potable water supply in Macapd as well as interior
towns. Environmentally, the capacity o f the state environment secretariat (SEMA) was greatly
strengthened, ecological-economic zoning was initiated, researchand development of natural products was
promoted, and public awarenessprograms (including museums) were supported.

N o widely-accepted impact assessment of the PDSA is available. However, the urban areas of the state
continue to face: rapid growth, inadequate access to infrastructure and services, a low level o f economic
development, and a high level of poverty. Life in rural Amaph continues to be plagued by: large distances
between people, production and potential markets; difficult access; inadequate infrastructure and
communications; a low level of agricultural productivity; anda highpoverty rate.

3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project andstrategic choices:
From 1995 to the present, the World Bank has supported a number of rural poverty alleviation projects
(RPAPs) in northeastern and southern Brazil that present a promising approach for addressing persistent
poverty levels through financing community-managed sub-projects, providing basic services to the poorest
rural families and offering access to credit. Concerning the latter, the Bank has recently gained experience
inthe area ofmicro-credit through the Crediamigo project. Key lessons learned from these experiencesare
provided in Section D.3. of the PAD. Amapd represents an opportunity to learn from these lessons and
transfer the RPAP experienceto confront poverty inBrazil's North.

Inaddition, theWorldBankhasbeeninvolvedinsustainabledevelopment activities inthe Amazonthrough
its role in the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian RainForest (RFPP). InAmapd, the Bank has gained
eight years of environmental experience through RFPP sub-projects to: strengthen state and municipal
institutions involved in environmental management (planning, monitoring and control); create and
consolidate the 4800 km*Rio Cajari extractive reserve; finance community-level economic initiatives that
are financially sustainable; protect indigenous areas; and support scientific research. This experience has
given the Bank a realistic sense of opportunities for implementing economic development that is
environmentally sustainablewithinthe constraints faced by Amapd.

Thus, the project seeks to learn: 1) how approachesto alleviate poverty used innortheastern Brazil can be
transferred to the Amazon region; and 2) how past experiences with environmentally sustainable
development can benefit the m a l andurban poor. The hypothesis to be tested is: The RPAP approach can
be effectively transferred to the Amazon if it is linked to a local process o f sustainable development
planning.




                                                     - 6 -

Sectoral strategies. The project is designedto address the following sector issues:

    Ruralpoverty Economic development inAmapb's rural areas is basedon the exploitation o f natural
                    -
    resources. This development has been hampered by a lack of investment capital and technical
    assistance, inadequate infrastructure and services, isolation from markets, environmentally
    unsustainable practices, and a low level of productivity. Strategy: The loan will: a) provide grants and
    technical assistance for community-driven sub-projects to address these problems; b) pilot the
    availability of micro-credit; and c) strengthenthe voice of the rural poor (see community empowerment
    strategy below).
    Urban poverty       - AmapL's urban poor have         little access to infrastructure and services, few
    opportunities for economic growth, degraded neighborhood conditions, and a low level o f political
    voice. A complementary investment loan by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) will support
    the provision o f infrastructure and services inthe state's three major urban centers (see details inAnnex
    2). Strategy: the project will focus on increasing the urban poor's access to micro-credit in order to
    generate more employment and income, and financing community development to improve living
    conditions and strengthen neighborhood-level social capital (see community empowerment strategy
    below).
    Environmental sustainability Much of Amapb's economy is and will continue to be based on its
                                      -
    natural wealth. Thus, the conservation and management of environmental resources i s a critical issue
    for the state. Strategy: the project will support environmentally-sound rural sub-projects and
    environmental improvements in urban neighborhoods by building on lessons learned from RFPP
    activities in the state. The risk o f negative environmental impacts will be mitigated through an
    Environmental Management Plan (Em).Specific pro-environment activities are also contemplated
    such as the demarcation and participatory ecological-economic zoning o f critical wetlands in Macapa
    and Santana.
    Community empowerment Poor communities have not hadadequate voice inthe political processto
                                   -
    express and pursue their interests. Strategy: the project will support community associations in poor
    urban neighborhoods, the creation and legalization o f rural associations for community and economic
    development, the strengthening o f multi-stakeholder Municipal Development Fora, and the provision of
    technical assistance to poor communities so that they can design, manage and maintain priority
    activities. Inaddition, the project has a special focus on special groups whose voice is often less heard
    indigenous peoples, Afro-Brazilian communities (quilombos), and poor women andadolescents.
    Capacity building     - Amapa   i s a new state with institutions that are at an early stage of evolution.
    Strategy: the new Government's intention to proceed with reform o f the state administrative apparatus
    will be supported through diagnostic studies and action planning. Investments are contemplated to
    strengthen the capacity of specific state agencies for development, planning, micro-credit, and rural
    extension. Local-level capacity will be built through support to rural associations, urban community
    organizations andMunicipal Development Fora.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for adetaileddescription andAnnex 3 for adetailedcost breakdown):
The proposed project would be implemented over four years and has four components: 1) Urban
community development sub-projects; 2) Institutional strengthening for poverty reduction; 3) Rural
community development sub-projects; and 4) Capacity buildingfor participatory management andtechnical
assistance. The project would support the Bank's central CAS objective for Brazil o f poverty reduction. Its
goal would be to reduce rural and urban poverty while contributing to environmental sustainability and
social equity.



                                                      - 7 -

(i)UrbanCommunityDevelopmentSub-projects(totalUS$1.79 million)
This component will focus on the poorest neighborhoods in the cities of Macap4 Santana and Laranjal do
Jari through the preparation and implementation of community development plans. The plans will be
prepared by the relevant neighborhood (bairro) association in a participatory manner and will encompass
social development and environmental sub-projects. Anticipated sub-projects will address problems related
to: low levels o f community organization, lack of skills and educational opportunities, the absence of
community planning, occupation of environmentally sensitive lands, poor sanitary conditions, and
inadequateaccess to infrastructure and services. Examples of sub-projects include:

    Infrastructure for community services (e.g., health and "community watch" posts, "one-stop" municipal
    service centers, day-care centers);
0   Constructionof public areas (e.g., public markets, squares, parks, playgrounds);
    Transportation infrastructure (e.g., roadpaving, passarelas for flood-prone areas, sidewalks, bus stops
    and local terminals);
    Capacity-buildingactivities (e.g., equipping and strengthening neighborhood associations, professional
    training, Portuguese,English and Frenchcourses, activities for youths, community surveys and
    studies);
    Environmental infrastructure (e.g., small-scale works for sanitation, water supply, drainage, and solid
    waste management); and
0   Technical assistancefor landregularization.

For planning purposes, it has been assumedthat the project will finance 30 sub-projects with an average
value o f R$140,000 (US$46,667). A second project would include financing for an additional 90 urban
sub-projects.

Over one-third of the poor residents of Macapb and Santana live in environmentally-sensitive wetlands
known as ressacas which contain biodiversity and provide environmental services such as drainage and
wind corridors. A diagnostic o f a representative sample of these wetlands was conducted in 2003. The
project will finance the demarcation and participatory zoning o f ressacas in these two cities, as well as
environmental education inaffected communities. Sub-projectswill only be supported inwetlands that have
been zoned. In these areas, preference will be given to sub-projects that protect and/or improve
environmental quality. These include: maintenance o f drainage canals; small-scale sewage treatment and
water supply systems; investments to facilitate solid waste management; fish farming with native species;
beekeeping; tree propagation and planting for food production and/or recovery of gallery forests; and
ecotourism (facilities for observing birdand other wildlife).

Implementation of the development plans should help improve living conditions in poor urban
neighborhoods as well as empower community organizations through their involvement in the planning
process, implementation of pilot activities and assistance for capacity building. Sub-projects will be
implemented as much as possible with other partners, such as the state and municipal governments, inorder
to leverage both resources and impact. Specific sub-projects will also seek to link with and complement
larger infrastructure investments in these three cities that could be financed by an IDB project under
preparation. A more detailedexplanation of the process for preparing, approving and implementing urban
sub-projectsi s provided inAnnex 2.

(ii)InstitutionalStrengthening for Poverty Reduction (total US$1.02 million)

This component will build the capacity o f the state to address key issues o f poverty and development by


                                                    - 8 -

supporting a specific reform of the state micro-credit provider and a general reform o f the state
administrative apparatus related to areas of the project. The former will involve the State Development
Bank (AFAP) and its Amapb Peoples' Solidarity Credit Program (AMASOL). AMASOL currently gives
support to small urban entrepreneurs with loans of between R$50 and R$5000. The latter will involve
ADAP, the Governor's Office and a sub-set of priority state agencies. Sub-components related to
micro-credit include:

    Businessplan the sub-component will supportpreparation of a development strategyandbusiness
                     -
    planto demonstrate how AFAP and its AMASOL programcan achieve its goals, expand the
    AMASOL program and overcome existing financial and operation constraints andproblems. The tasks
    withinthe sub-componentare to: (a) elaboratea complete businessplan anddevelopment strategy
    including a sensitivity analysis; (b) preparea market study with the overall objective to reach the urban
    poor; (c) fine-tune the newly implemented financial managementsystemto be able to generatethe
    requiredfinancial indicators; (d) improve the internal data-base; (e) prepare a detailedproposal for
    capacity buildingand outreachstrategies; and (9 adjust AFAP's internal operational manualto the
    findingsofthe businessplan.
    Capacity-building The sub-componentwill initially strengthenandexpandAFAP's capacity by: a)
                         -
    training new credit agents; b) increasing AFAP's capacity to providetechnical assistance and manage
    loans; c) train State agents to train potentialmicroentrepreneurs inthe poorest areas inAmapb; d)
    improving the monitoring andevaluation systemto ensure that resourcesare effectively usedto create
    employment andaugment family income; and e) decentralizing the micro-credit lending system.
    Ruralfmance For ruralareas, the component will finance the design andtesting ofa special credit
                     -
    line. This will be basedon the lessons learned duringtwo decades o f experiencewithrural lending
    through the dehnct h a p 6 State Bank and the Amazon Bank as well as the Central Bank's guidance
    on ruralcredit. Credit line designwill needto take into consideration: a history of paternalism between
    the state and the rural producer; limited ability to provide technical assistance; transportation and
    communications difficulties; highcostsrelatedto the productivecycle; returnon investment and
    challengesregardingmonitoring and supervision. The design should include: development o f a
    registration system, an approachfor providingtechnical assistance, aproposal for the loan guarantee
    mechanism, criteria for establishing the eligibility of rural proposals, and the terms and conditions for
    loan repayment and default. Once designed, the rural credit line will be tested, monitoredand evaluated
    inapilot area.

The objective o fthis component is to turnAFAP's microfinanceoperation into a self-sustainable instrument
and prepare the microfinance unit for an increase o f capital. A secondproject couldthenincreasethe
capitalization of the AMASOL program so that it can better meet the demand of low-income clients for
micro-credit. This support would be conditioned on the success o fthe first project: a) successful adoption
and implementation of the development strategy andbusinessplanwith the objective o freaching financial
self-sustainability through strengtheningthe capacity for sustainablegrowth o f AMASOL, improved
productivity of loan officers, a more cost-effective charging methodology, implementation of a development
of a marketingand dissemination strategy on the availability o f micro-credit inorder to reachpotential
clients inthe poorest urbanneighborhoods, decentralization efforts, and the implementation of an adequate
financial management system; andb) improvement o f AMASOL's portfolio qualityindicators to agreed
levels.

The objective of the final sub-componentis to improvepublic administration inAmapb at the state level so
that the government can more effectively and efficiently reduce poverty through its programs to promote
economic development with socialjustice. Support for developing such actions would involve diagnostic
studies and action planning. Studieswould include a public expenditure and programreview and


                                                      - 9 -

functional reviews insecretariatsor other priority government entities relatedto poverty reduction,
including an assessment of servicedelivery constraints for key governmental agencies. The actionplanning
would involve consensus-building workshops for eachkey diagnostic study, the development o f strategies
that buildon the diagnostic studies and an action planningworkshop to discuss the proposed agenda.

(iii)RuralCommunity Development Sub-projects (total US$2.55 million)

This component would build capacity in the rural area and provide grants for sub-projects that will be
identified, developed and managedby community and producer associations. Proposals will be prioritized
by the appropriate Municipal Development Forum to ensure that they are consistent with the local vision
for sustainable development outlined by the Development Forum. The component will reserve 10% of
sub-project financial resources for a special set of beneficiaries: indigenous people, Afro-Brazilians (
quilombolas), and poor women and adolescents. Special, culturally-appropriate procedures have been
designed for sub-project design and approval for indigenous groups and quilombolas; these are describedin
greater detail in Annex 13 which summarizes the Special Groups Inclusion Strategy. The PCU will
undertake a variety o f measures, also identified in the Strategy, to promote greater involvement of poor
women and youths as sub-project beneficiaries.

Two types of sub-projects will be financed: environmental and social infrastructure, and support for
environmentally-sustainable productive investments. Examples of environmental and social infrastructure
include: drinking water supply, primary health care posts, maintenance and clearance o f rural paths and
lanes, clearing o f igarapi waterways, community centers, day-care centers, family schools, libraries, sport
and recreation centers, rural electricity generation and distribution, rural telecommunications systems, and
construction of small bridges. For planning purposes, the project will finance 15 such projects with an
average value o f R$75,000 (US$25,000). Examples o f environmentally-sustainable productive investments
include: agroforestry systems, sustainable forest management, agricultural equipment, improvement of soil
quality, community-based manioc flour processing units, small-scale grain silos, processing facilities for
fruit pulp, seedling nurseries, beekeeping, sustainable fisheries practices, fish meal production, ice-making
(for artisanal fisheries), aquaculture, textile production, studies to design community natural resource
management systems, training for producers and entrepreneurs, and improved local transportation and
marketing systems. For planning purposes, the project would finance 15 such projects with an average
value of R$100,000 (US$33,333). A second project would include financing for an additional 65
soci-environmental and 65 productive sub-projects. The average sub-project would directly benefit 30
poor families or 150 people; overall, this component and activities anticipated in a second project
would directly assist 24,000 rural poor or over halfo f the ruralpopulation livingbelow the poverty line.

The sub-project examples are preliminary and basedon initial surveys o f community demand conducted by
ADAP. This component will be driven by community demand and the project is free to finance other
activities not listed here that are consistent with project objectives. Grant funds would also cover any
necessarytechnical assistance for sub-project design, training and environmental studies and environmental
impact mitigation related to sub-project execution. In addition, this component will provide resources to
strengthen key partners (community associations, MunicipalDevelopment Fora, RURAP) as well as for a
study to assist Afro-Brazilian communities with land regularization. A more detailed description of the
process for preparing, approving and implementing sub-projects for standard rural communities, as well as
for indigenous and quilombo areas, is provided inAnnex 2.

(iv) Capacity Building for Participatory Management and Technical Assistance (total US$ 1.05
million)



                                                     -10-

The purposeso f this component are to:

    reinforce the operational capacity o fADAP to coordinate project implementation;
0   develop a project managementinformationsystem;
    maintain a monitoring andevaluation systemfor the project, including close collaboration with the
    state Environment Secretariat (SEMA) and the national environmental protectionagency (IBAMA);
    and
    undertake information and promotionalcampaigns for public awareness,

Additional capacity-building resourcesare included inother components:

    creation and strengthening of urban neighborhood associations (Component 1);
    preparation o f the AFAP business plan and development strategy, and buildingup its capacity to meet
    bothurban and rural demand for micro-credit (Component 2);
    modernizationand reform of the state administrative apparatus for poverty reduction (Component 2);
    creation and strengthening of rural community andproducer associations(Component 3)
    assist the AmapL Institute for Rural Development (RURAP) with the supervision of technical
    assistance to communities and the sharingofknowledge andexperiencebetweenMunicipal
    Development Fora (Component 3); and
    strengthening the capacity o f the Municipal Development Fora to undertake local sustainable
    development planning, monitoring sub-project implementation andcontribute to evaluating whether the
    project is achieving its results (Component 3).

Capacity building includes human resource development, acquisition o f goods and services, and the
creation of operational units for project implementation. ADAP, which will oversee the Project
Coordination Unit but has not yet implemented a World Bank project, would contract a firm to assist with
project financial management that will also train PCU staff to gradually assume this responsibility.
Additionally, ADAP will obtain equipment and support to create a management information system to
assist with project monitoring. The PCU will also be responsible for contracting and supervising public
awareness campaigns and other activities that will provide information to promote the project's objectives.
RURAP will receive training for its extension agents and support to create a technical unit to assist with
project implementation. AFAP will benefit from preparation o f a business plan to establish key
performance parametersand guide its expansion to greater financial sustainability.

                                                                                      I  Bank-     1   %of    I
                          Component                                      I            I
                                                                 _-_.-
                                                               (US$M)       Total       (us$~)-I financing     1
 UrbanCommunity Development Sub-projects                           1.79        26.3         1.20        25.0
 Strengthening Institutions for Poverty Reduction                  1.02        15.0         0.69         14.4
 Rural Community Development Sub-projects                          2.55        37.4         2.06        42.9
 Capacity Building                                                 1.05         15.4        0.56         11.7
 Physical Contingencies                                            0.32         4.7         0.24          5.0
 Price Contingencies                                               0.06         0.9         0.03          0.6
                                           Total Proiect Costs     6.79        99.7         4.78        99.6
                                                 Front-end fee     0.02 I        0.3 I      0.02 I        0.4 I
                                    Total FinancingReauired        6.81 1     100.0 1       4.80 I      100.0 I




                                                   - 11-

2. Keypolicyand institutionalreformssupportedby the project:
The project seeks to reinforce past and ongoing state policies that are designedto improve humanwelfare,
protect the environment and decentralize decision-making. Institutional reforms will be pursued at three
different levels. At the local level, community, producer associations and Municipal Development Fora will
be created and reinforced. Their legal existence, combined with their role in selecting, designing,
implementing, andor monitoring sub-projects, should play a role inempowering local communities. At the
line agency level, specific state institutions will be strengthenedand reformed. Foremost among these would
be AFAP, which will receive support for becoming a more professional development bank. Capacity
building will also take place at ADAP and RURAP. At the state level, the new government's desire to
undertake an administrative reform will be supported through a diagnostic and an action plan to identify
short, medium and long-term reform options for implementing the state's program of development with
socialjustice.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The target population is the 198,000+ citizens o fAmapL who are livinginpoverty. The municipalities with
the greatest number of poor are: MacapL, Santana, Laranjal do Jari, Mazaggo and Tartarugalzinho. Within
MacapL, the neighborhoods with the highest concentration of poverty are: Buritizal, PerpBtuo Socorro,
Novo Horizonte, Zerzo, and Sgo Jorge. In rural areas, the groups at greatest risk are river dwellers,
extractivists,  artisanal   fisher-people, female-headed households, indigenous          communities,  and
Afro-Brazilians living in informal quilombos. The tables in Annex 11 provide data on income and living
conditions throughout the state that will be used for poverty targeting.

The project benefits involve learning lessons about:

    rural poverty reduction through creation o f economically sustainablejobs and higher incomes;
    improved living conditions of the rural population through better access to social services and basic
    infrastructure;
    urban poverty reduction through the jobs and increased income that would be generated by much
    greater availability of micro-creditto poor entrepreneurs;
    improved living conditions in the poorest urban neighborhoods through community development
    projects that would increase the availability o f services, reduce health risks, increase educational
    opportunities, andpromote cultural development;
    environmental conservation through the promotion o f economic activities that seek to conserve natural
    resources inrural areas and improve environmental conditions inurban areas;
    creation o f social capital, including the strengthening of rural and urban community organizations and
    municipalities, through stakeholder participation in decision-making and responsibility for managing
    public resources;
    development of citizenship through training, participation in decision-making and creation of work
    opportunities; and
    greater economic growth within the state through support to the dynamic urban informal sector and
    greater integration of community initiatives into the rural economy.

These lessons will be usedto improve future poverty and environment projects, including a follow-on Bank
loan, and other interventions inAmapL as well as elsewhereinthe Amazon.




                                                       - 12-

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation would be the responsibility of the Amapi Development Agency (ADAP). An
institutional diagnosis of alternative implementation arrangements concluded that ADAP was the most
appropriate state counterpart for this project because: a) as an autonomous agency, ADAP has greater
financial and administrative flexibility than state secretariats; b) its proximity to the Governor's Office
gives it greater access to the executive branch of government; c) ADAP also has a history of working
directly with the Municipal Development Fora; and d) its staff have a detailed knowledge of the project as
they have been responsible for its preparation. In addition, ADAP has regular working interaction with
three importantpartners who can facilitate project implementation: the Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN), the
Integrated Municipal Development Secretariat and the Rural Development Agency (RURAP).Finally, its
president i s currently also heading the State Development Bank (AFAP) and is physically integrating the
offices ofthe two entities.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been created under the ADAP president to implement, through
separate structures, both this project and the proposed IDB investment. The two basic functions o f the
World Bank portion o f the PCU are: to provide general coordination between the project and other related
activities, especially the IDB loan, and to coordinate implementation with AFAP which would be
responsible for Component 2. The PCU for this project will consist o f a technical unit (for urban
community development, micro-credit, rural sub-projects, and capacity building), an administration and
finance unit (for accounting, monitoring and evaluation, and procurement) and a unit for communications
and sub-regions. The latter, in addition to implementing the project's communications strategy, would
maintain a network o f five regional officers based in the municipalities o f Oiapoque, Laranjal do Jan,
h a p $ Port0 Grande, and MacapgSantana. These officers would be local sources o f project information
and assistance; to minimize costs, they would be accommodated in existing offices o f RURAP. An
organizational chart describing the PCU is available inAnnex 12on Project Management Structure.
A General Coordinator will headupthe PCUandberesponsiblefor the project's monitoring andevaluation
system, dissemination activities and capacity buildingefforts. The General Coordinator will be responsible
for: a) supervising the work of the technical unit, including reviewing the quality of technical reports
prepared for each component; b) supporting the work of the administration and finance unit to ensure that
project funds are properly disbursed and accounted for and that results are carefully monitored and
evaluated; c) assisting the work of the communications unit to ensure that effective dissemination takes
place and that regional officers are succeeding in their tasks; and d) serving as the key link between the
project and the PCC, the ADAP president and the Governor's Office.
The PCU will be assistedby a Project Council (PC) consisting o f the ADAP president, the PCU's General
Coordinator, and representatives fiom SEPLAN, the Governor's Office, the Integrated Municipal
Development Secretariat, SEBRAE, AFAP, APC, RURAP, SEMA, IBAMA, civil society, and special
groups. The PC would be headedby the ADAP president and would meet on a quarterly basis to approve
urban and rural sub-projects, facilitate inter-institutional relations, approve the Annual Operating Plan
prepared and submitted by ADAP, and provide strategic guidance for project implementation. This would
include reviewof an annual report onproject implementation to be prepared by ADAP.
Inurbanareas, the project willwork with existing andnewly-formed neighborhood associationsto prepare
participatory community development plans. Resourcesto support the planningprocess will be providedby
the PCU. Each plan will contain a preliminary set of sub-projects for financing. Associations in each
community will submit pre-proposals to the Council of Municipal Associations (COEMA) in the case of
Macaph and Santana and the Municipal Development Forum in the case o f Laranjal do Jari for
prioritization in accordance with the plan; prioritized pre-proposals will then be forwarded to the PCU to
arrange for any necessarytechnical assistanceto help urbanassociations prepare their sub-projects.


                                                    - 13-

Inrural areas, the projectwill work with existing andnewly-formedcommunity andproducers'associations
to implement Component 3. The associations will identify their needs for financing and these, as
pre-proposals, will be submitted to the relevant Municipal Development Forum for ranking.Fora have been
created inall o f AmapVs municipalitieswith the exception o f MacapA and Santana. As of the end of 2002,
all Fora had completed their local sustainable development plan that were prepared in a participatory
manner; these plans briefly set out the community's vision o f key poverty/environment issues, options and
objectives. Each Forum will use its plan as guidance for prioritizing and forwarding pre-proposals received
from associations to the PCU in order to mobilize technical assistance. A diagnosis undertaken during
project preparation indicates that the Fora exhibit differing degrees of capacity, organization and
representativenessof poor stakeholders. The project will provide assistance to ensurethat Fora are stronger
in all of these areas. The loan will provide funding for communities to seek technical assistance for
preparation and management of sub-projects. Communities will be free to determine the most appropriate
source o f technical assistance, e.g., from an NGO, private consultant or firm, or state agency. The State
Rural Extension Agency (RURAP) is expected to play a key role in providing much of this technical
assistance.

The approach for indigenous and quilombo communities will be slightly different (see Annex 13).
Communities will prepare their pre-proposals and submit them to an indigenous or quilombo board made
up of representative organizations working throughout the state in these communities. Each board will
prioritize proposals and forward them to the PCU in order to mobilize technical assistance for sub-project
preparation. More details on sub-project preparation, approval and management for all three situations
(urbanneighborhoods, ruralcommunities and specialgroups) canbe found inAnnex 2.

Project implementation will rely on a number of legaland planninginstruments: the Termo de
Compromisso, the sub-project document, engineering studies and businessplans, the Conv&nio,the Termo
de CooperapZo Te'cnica,and contracts for goods and services. The Termo de Compromisso i s a statement
drawnup by a community that delineatesits commitments for project implementation, including its
counterpart contribution and maintenancewith a list o f responsible people and a timetable. The sub-project
document i s a community-approved proposal, preparedwith technical assistance as necessary, that
provides informationon costs, design, beneficiaries, environmental impact, andmitigation measures.
Engineering studies andbusinessplans constitute part of technical assistance for sub-projects andwould be
contracted with registered professionals, government agencies, NGOs, or private firms inconsultation with
the community or producers association.The Conv&nio i s the legal instrument for transferring resources
between ADAP and other implementing entities suchas MAP,other governmental entities or
non-govemmental organizations, for pre-proposal and sub-project preparation, studies, technical
assistance, monitoring and evaluation, etc. The Termo de CooperaqZo i s an instrument that govems the
relation between two project partners without involving the transfer of financial resources. Contracts for
goods and services would be usedby ADAP and AFAP to pay a private firm or professional for technical
assistance services, preparation of studies and sub-projects, execution o f civil works, conducting courses,
etc. The proposedproject would be implementedover six years andhas four components. The components
are: 1) Urban community development sub-projects; 2) Micro-credit for urban and rural residents; 3) Rural
community development sub-projects; and 4) Capacity buildingfor participatory managementandtechnical
assistance. The project would support the Bank's central CAS objective for Brazil o fpoverty reduction. Its
goal would be to reducerural and urbanpoverty while contributing to environmental sustainability.

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection:
Three alternative project approacheswere consideredbut rejected inproject design.


                                                    -14-

Top-down, state-driven model. The first alternative was a classic, top-down, state-driven project to
provide infrastructure and services to poor rural communities. This paternalistic approach was the
principal approach used by the state to address poverty when Amapi was still a territory. The model had
relatively little impact because of: a lack o f community consultation to understand local needs and
priorities, centralization of information and decision-making, and limited capacity (human resources,
financial resources, information) to address key problems. Thus, this approach was rejected by the state
itself which recognizes that it does not have the capacity to effectively reach communities entirely on its
own. Experience from the Northeast of Brazil inthe 1970sand 1980sindicates that centralized planned and
state delivery o f goods and services to dispersedrural communities is less effective because of highcosts,
difficult coordination, lack of awareness about local demands, and financial unsustainability o f
investments. This same set of experiencesdemonstratedthe advantages of decentralizing poverty reduction
measuresto the local levelthrough municipalcouncils that representa broadrange of stakeholders.

The Pilot Program community approach. The Pilot Program for the Conservation of the Brazilian Rain
Forest (RFPP) has implemented two projects inAmapi and elsewhereinthe Amazon that support poverty
reduction through productive investments which seek to conserve natural resources. The Type A
Demonstration Projects (PDA) involves local communities in the planning and implementation of
income-generating enterprises that actively protect the rain forest. Implementationo f PDA sub-projects in
Amaph faced a number of technical difficulties: lack of market opportunities for products, insufficient
business plans, inadequate engineering studies, unreliable supply o f raw materials, and unavailability of
key services (transportation, communications, energy). On the other hand, the Extractive Reserves Project
(RESEX) was able to overcome some of these problems by providing appropriate technical assistance at
different points in the consolidation of the Rio Cajari Reserve. However, the RESEX model was not
deemed appropriate for addressing the larger question o f poverty in Amaph because it primarily meets the
needso f only one ruralgroup (extractivists) and does not help solve the biggerissue ofurbanpoverty.

The Rural Poverty Alleviation projects.           Another alternative was to replicate the micro-basin
management and rural poverty alleviation projects (RPAPs) that have been financed by the Bank in other
regions of Brazil. While many features o f the RPAP have been integrated inthis project, more emphasis on
environmental management was thought to be appropriate in a state where the overwhelming majority o f
the rural poor earn their livingby harvesting and transforming naturalresources. Also, the RPAP approach
is not necessarily the most effective means of stimulating economic development in urban areas. The
micro-basin approach was not applied in Amapi because the state's hydrology and demographics are not
consistentwith this framework.




                                                    -15-

2. Major related projects financed by the Bankand/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                               LatestSupervision
                                                                                  IPSR) Ratings
                                                                           (Bank-finance, projectsonly)
                                                                           Implementation     Development
 Bank-financed                                                              Progress(IP)     Objective (DO)

 Promote sustainable naturalresources     Brazil-RainForest Pilot               S                H S
 managementconservation by local          Program, Demonstration
 communities inthe Amazonand              Projects (PD/A)
 Atlantic Forests
 Develop and test approachesto the        Brazil-RainForest Pilot               S                  S
 social, economic and environmental       Program, ExtractiveReserves
 managemento f extractive reservesin Project (RESEX)
 the Amazon
 Reduceruralpoverty andpromote            Brazil-RuralPoverty
 communitydevelopment                     Alleviation Projects
 Capacity buildingfor integrated          Brazil - Natural Resources
 environmental management                 Policy Project
 Micro-credit                             Brazil- Crediamigo
                                                           "
 3ther development agencies
 Micro-credit inurban areas               Brazil - AMASOL programo f
                                         AFAP
 Integratedlocal sustainable             FDLISprogramsupportedby
 developmentprograms                      SEBRAE, APC, municipalities
                                          and NGOs
 Credit for rural producers               FNONormalandEspecial
                                         through the Banco de AmazGnia
                                          and RURAP
 Credit for extractivists                 PRODEX through IBAMAand
                                          the Banco de AmazGnia
 Training for smallandmedium-scale        EMPRETEC programo f
 entrepreneurs                            SEBRAE, SETRACI
                                                                          1(Highly Unsatis

3. Lessonslearnedand reflected in the project design:
The project design has drawn on lessons from World Bank experience in Brazil as well as state-specific
experience.

From 1995 to the present, the World Bank has supported a number o f rural poverty alleviation projects
(RPAPs) in northeastem and southern Brazil that present a promising approach for addressing persistent
poverty levels through financing community-managed sub-projects and providing basic services to the
poorest rural families. Key lessonslearned include:

J        Decentralization -delegation o f duties to municipal councils andgreater use o f regional offices to



                                                    -16-

         promote more responsiveand local-level monitoring, data collection, coordination, and supervision;
J        Participation o f beneficiaries inthe selection, financing, execution, and O&M o f sub-projects has
         ensured that investments meet genuine community needs, led to cost savings, and has increasing
         ownership, leading to improvedsustainability of investments; and
J        Poverty targeting - communities themselves, i.e., municipal councils, are best-positioned and
         informed to target effectively, using simple, verifiable and objective criteria.

These lessons were drawn from the "Evaluation o f the Brazilian Experience with Rural Poverty
Reduction", Annex 2, Report 21337-BR, June 2001. They are reflected in project design through the
following characteristics: a) decentralized decision-making through Municipal Development Fora; b) the
installation o f regional officers to promote and facilitate the project; c) beneficiary involvement, through
Components 1and 3, insub-project selection, counterpart financing, implementation, andmaintenance; and
d) poverty targeting through amacro focus onpriority areasand community-levelselection.

The RFPP has six years of experience fhding community-level demonstration projects inthe Amazon and
Atlantic rainforests of Brazil (PDA) as well as the creation and management of extractive reserves in the
Amazon (RESEX). These projects demonstrated a) the potential for harmonizing income generation
activities in poor communities with sustainable natural resource management; b) the viability of
community-driven development ina rainforest environment; and c) the importance o ftechnical assistance at
all stages of the sub-project cycle. The project has integrated this experience in its design by making
environmental conservation an intrinsic part o f especially the rural sub-projects, basing the urban and rural
sub-projects on community demand and ensuring that beneficiaries have adequate and flexible access to
technical assistance.

Duringproject preparation, the state conductedits own assessment oflessonslearnedfor project design and
came to the following conclusions:

    Community organization          - a low level o f community participation in project design and
    implementation has been correlated with poor project performance in the past. However, many
    community and producer associations are not yet well-structured to assume project management
    responsibilities. They particularly need support for: project maintenance; greater representativenessand
    turnover o f leadership; financial management; project planning using technical design criteria;
    transparent decision-making; andfinancial independencefrom the state.
    Technical assistance this is an indispensablepart o f poverty-oriented interventions at the community
                            -
    level. Technical assistance should include an emphasis on locally-appropriate technologies and its
    financing should be an intrinsic part of project financing (up to 20% of project costs in some cases).
    The delivery o f technical assistance should consider: a) training for rural producers; b) reducing what
    has been a highrotation rate of extension agents; and c) the limits o f privatizing technical assistance
    such as the lack of developing an institutionalmemory within a government agency.
    Credit there is a pent-up demand for credit inboth the urban and rural areas o f Amapa becausethere
             -
    are few suppliers and those that exist do not have sufficient capital, human resources and/or sufficient
    speed to meet the demand. Some lessonso f particular interest for rural credit include: as landtenure is
    complex inthe state, most lenders do not require real estate as collateral; a migratory rural population
    has had a negative effect on the repayment rate o f some rural loan programs; technical and legal
    assistance with loan applications are needed; and the use o f a registry o f technical assistance providers
    canhelp maintainthe quality of advice receivedby clients.
    Economic viability - Financial analysis and preparation o f business plans are practices that have not
    yet become part of local entrepreneurial habits in AmapL. One key to reducing the costs o f doing
    business in the Amazon i s to invest in local transportation networks, bridges, electrification, and


                                                     - 17-

    telecommunications. Transportation subsidies provided by the Agricultural Secretariat should be
    quantified and analyzedincomparison with alternatives. Inmany cases, community enterprises need to
    develop partnerships with more experiencedactors inthe private sector.
    Capacity building While capacity building needs to be an integral part of any project, it was
                          -
    concluded that the state training agency (SEFORH) cannot meet these needs by itself. Other partners
    will be needed such as SEBRAE which has offered community courses on leadership and
    entrepreneurship. Capacity building is a medium-term investment that cannot function without
    specialized technical assistance and follow-up investment. Specific attention should be paid to training
    youths and increasing the adult literacyrate.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitmentandownership:
The project has the highest level ofpolitical support within the state as it i s considered a priority by the new
Governor. The Governor has spent quality time discussing the project during missions and directly with the
Country Director. In addition, he i s making sure that counterpart funds are included in the 2004-2007
multi-year budget plan for the state. Perhaps most telling, within a few days of entering office, the
Governor submitted a request to the Ministry of Planning to increase the scope and value o f the project so
that it could begin to address questions o f urban poverty. In addition, he personally signed the
aide-memoire o f the appraisal mission. It was subsequently decided that this requested increase will
constitute the follow-on loan for the current project. At the federal level, the state's influential presence in
the Senate (the president of the Senate represents Amaph) is fully behind the loan. Within the state
administration, the proposed implementing agency (ADAP) has been committed to the project since its
inception. Fortuitously, the agency president has also been named to head the other implementing entity for
the project (MAP).The PCUwas createdby legal decree inMarch2003, staffing began inMay 2003 and
new offices were nearing completion at the same time. Plans have been made to hire consultants to meet
effectiveness conditions such as preparation o f the operational manual and establishment o f the
computerized monitoring and evaluation system. At the local level, the project concept has received strong
support from a range of potential beneficiaries and stakeholders, including Municipal Development Fora,
neighborhood associations, indigenous groups, quilombo representatives, heads o f women's and youth
groups, mayors, and state agencies such as RURAPand SEPLAN.

5. Value addedof Banksupportinthis project:
The Bank has long been the principal external lender supporting Brazil's programs to address
environmental and poverty issues. Both themes are combined in the present project. The Bank will add
specific value to this project through: a) transfer of successful approaches to rural poverty alleviation
through community-managed initiatives from its rural poverty projects elsewhere inthe country; b) lessons
learned from financing community associations in h a p 9 through the Pilot Program activities; c) global
experience with community-driven development and micro-credit support; d) capacity building for project
and financial management; and e) lessons learned from supporting micro-credit operations in Brazil and
worldwide. It i s also important to keep in mindthat this will be the first Bank loan to the state, implying
that project preparation and implementation i s a learningprocess for all concerned.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsareintheproject file, seeAnnex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex4):
0Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0 Other(speci@)
No global economic analysis was done on the project because of the difficulties in calculating rates o f


                                                    - 18-

return, especially for Components 1 (urban community development) and 3 (rural sub-projects), both o f
which involve grants with community counterpart contributions.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Limited, indicative financial analysis was done for a sub-set o f productive investments that could be

with an NPV o f US$1079 - 76,382 (R$3778 - 267,337) per sub-project. These results are summarized
financed under Component 3 (rural sub-projects). The IRR for these sub-projects ranges from 11- 220%,

below and explained further inAnnex 4.

       Sub-project                   IRR(Yo)                    NPV (R$)           NPV(US$ @R$3/US$1)
Beekeeping                               11                       75,117                     25,039
Seedling nursery                         21                       10,370                      3,457
Manioc flour (manual)                    26                       26317                       8,839
Grain silo                               36                       3,778                        1,259
Manioc flour                             39                       75,754                     25,25 1
kmechanized)                I                          I                          I                          I
Fruitpulpprocessing                      90                      267,337                     89,112
Managed aqaiplantation                 220                       257,959                      85,986

A financial analysis was also conducted to evaluate the performance of AFAP. This indicated a monthly
return on the loan portfolio of 1.37% and an annual operational return o f -0.38% (based on the most
recently available data -- through June 30, 2002). A thorough evaluation o f AFAP was undertaken as part
o fproject preparation, identifyinga range o f operational and financial reforms that will be financed through
the project. It is hoped that these measures, along with an expansion of activities, will bring the
development bank up to the average Brazilian standard for monthly return on loan portfolio (4.28%) and
the average Latin American standard for annual operational return (8.18%). More information on the
financial analysis o fAFAP i s presentedinAnnex 4.

Fiscal Impact:

N/A

3. Technical:
Three technical issues have been identified:

    Coordination with IDB- the IDBUrban EnvironmentalImprovement Program could be appraisedin
    FY04 for implementation in FY05. As the project is still being prepared, details have yet to be
    finalized. Thus, there will be a need to closely coordinate any infrastructure-related community
    investments in Component 1 with the latest plans for the IDB project. Should the project not
    materialize, there may be a needto increase the percentageo f environmental infrastructure sub-projects
    financed by Component 1; and
    Dispersion and disorganization - many o f the poorest rural inhabitants, such as river-dwellers and
    extractivists, live indispersed and informally-organizedrural settlements. This will make it difficult to
    reach and interact with some o f the rural poor. In addition to targeting, the project will invest in the
    creation and strengthening o f legally-recognized associationsinorder to empower these groups.
    Land tenure the Bank needs to guaranteethat any physical investments for a community or producer
                    -
    association i s on land that is controlled or owned by the beneficiary association to avoid the risk o f



                                                    - 19-

     losing the investment to an entity with a competing claim to the land. A thorough review of the land
     tenure situation inAmapb (see project file) concluded that both the federal and state land situation i s in
     order, with virtually all public and private land being properly incorporated without overlapping
     claims. However, inorder to be eligible for project support, any association which proposes a physical
     investment will need to provide a copy of its title document for the landwhere the investment will be
     located.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency will be the h a p & Development Agency (ADAP).During project preparation, an
institutional analysis was conducted to determine the most appropriate location of the Project Coordination
Unit. Four options were considered: a) the State Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN); b) the Rural
Development Institute (RURAP); c) ADAP; and d) a contracted project management service. SEPLAN
was deemed inappropriate because of its lack of experience with project management and because of the
administrative and financial rigidities exhibited by a state secretariat. RURAP, while having some positive
characteristics, was not seen as a good fit with project objectives because o f its exclusive focus on rural
areas, its lack o f access to the Governor's Office and bureaucratic constraints linked to its status as an
institute. A contracted management unit would have administrative and financial flexibility but would not
have access to government agencies to facilitate implementation nor would have contact and knowledge of
local communities and neighborhoods. O f the four options, ADAP was evaluated as the most appropriate
location for the PCU because it is an agency that has greater administrative and financial flexibility, is
directly linked to many key government entities including the Governor's Office, is very familiar with all
details o fthe project, and has operational linkswith the Municipal Development Fora.

4.2 Project management:
The project will be managed by the PCU within ADAP, with initial assistance fi-om a contracted
management fm. The PCU has been structured (see organizational chart in Annex 12) to: a) ensure
coordination between the IDBloanandthe Bankproject; b) provide a mechanism for coordination with key
government agencies through the Project Council (PC); c) seek results on a component-by-component
basis, with a technical unit that has staff responsible for each of the four components; d) provide for
adequate administration and financial management, with a unit responsible for accounting, computerized
monitoring and evaluation, and procurement; and e) communicate better with beneficiaries through a unit
that maintains regionalrepresentativesthroughout the state.

The project will invest in building the managerial capacity o f AFAP. This will require some financial
restructuring and management training. Financial restructuring should involve: re-evaluating the low
interest rates currently charged by the institution; re-evaluating the loan repayment terms to avoid reducing
the liquidityo f the portfolio; changing the way AFAP calculates its financial performance to better reflect
standardpractices of microfinance institutions; and improving its productivity and taking other measures to
ensure financial sustainability. Management training should include technical capacity building (market
analysis, information management, basic accounting for microfinance institutions, financial analysis, risk
management, and portfolio management) and operationally-oriented courses (products and operational
policies for microfinance institutions, credit operations and internalprocedures).

Three project managementissues have beenidentified

     PCUcapacity - while the Project Coordination Unithasbeenlegally createdwithinADAP and largely


                                                      - 20 -

    staffed, financial management and procurement assessments suggest that it i s not yet capable of
    managing the project entirely on its own. Therefore, as an effectivenesscondition, ADAP will contract
    a management firm to assist with a number of key areas including: financial management, including
    development and operation of a financial management system; procurement in compliance with Bank
    guidelines; and development and operation of the project monitoring and evaluation system. The
    contracted firm will operate during the first two-three years o f the project and will train PCU staff so
    that the PCUcan gradually assume full management ofthe project.
    Community capacity      -therei concernthatmanycommunities donothavethetechnicalcapacityto
                                     s
    prepare and manage sub-projects. This issue will be addressed through the inclusion of technical
    assistance for project design and management. While RURAP will likely provide some of this
    assistance, communities will be free to choose their source of technical assistance and will be guidedby
    summary informationon the most frequently requestedtypes of sub-projects; and
    Monitoring and evaluation - duringproject preparation, a set o f process and impact indicators were
    developed for the project. In addition, ADAP staff were familiarized with a management information
    system that is being usedby a rural poverty alleviation project in Sergipe. A computerized monitoring
    and evaluation system is being designed and installed for the project. The state has obtained DfID
    financial and technical assistance to refine performance and impact indicators. Operationalizing the
    systemwould be a conditionof loaneffectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A capacity assessment on procurement was prepared in December 2002 to evaluate ADAP. This will be
the first Bank loan to the State of Amapi and, thus, no state agency has any experience whatsoever with
Bank procedures. As such, deficiencies were detected in the areas of procurement expertise, capacity and
system information. The assessmentmade the following specific conclusions:

    Legal aspects and procurement practices - there are no serious concerns about the quality o f internal
    procurement practices of the implementingagency andtheir conformity with practices acceptable to the
    Bank,
    Procurement cycle management ADAP received training on procurement planningand completed a
                                        -
    procurement plan that was cited as an example o f good practice by the Bank procurement adviser.
    However, ADAP will need to reinforce its capacity either through hiring additional staff or a
    managementfirm;
    Organization and functions - existing capacity is very limited in the areas of developing a
    procurement system, manuals, training, and supervision o f implementation;
    Support and control systems - Components 1-3 would require independent procurement reviews to
    ensureadequate checks and balances;
    Record-keeping the availability, quality, security, and completeness o f procurement records and files
                      -
    meet good standards. However, capacity is inadequate to deal with the anticipated work flow in the
    project;
    Staffing the quality o f ADAP staff appears reasonable but the quantity will be insufficient to cover
             -
    all aspects o fproject administration; and
    General procurement environment         - the general environment   i s uncertain as there are not many
    government investments o fthe size andnature o f the proposed project.

For these reasons, the assessment rate the procurement risk as Uh, recommending an action plan to build
ADAP's capacity as well as a biannual ex-post review o f procurement and the annual participation of
independent procurement reviewers. The action plan consists of: hiringa management firm; retaining two
procurement specialists; updating the procurement plan; hiring independent reviews for Components 1-3;
providing more space to the procurement function; installing a monitoring system; and developing


                                                   - 21 -

procurement manuals for micro-credit, the OperationsManual and the beneficiaries o f the sub-projects.
4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
A preliminary financial management assessment was conducted inDecember 2002 and an action plan was
agreedwith the existing PCU, to implement the financial management arrangements in order to enable the
Project to effectively manage and monitor the funds to be financed by the Bank. This mission concluded
that with training, installation of a financial management system and implementation o f all other financial
management requirements, ADAP would have the capacity to implement and manage the Project. The
action plan included a) hire and train the financial and accounting staff required for the Project, b) select
and implement the accounting and reporting system, c) design the models of the FMR which would best
suit Project's needs, d) design the most simpler and effective possible flow o f finds within the State,
starting at the Loan account up to the end beneficiaries, and including counterpart resources, e) prepare a
draft o f the Financial Manual, 9 adequate and train the AFAP staff who would be in charge to implement
the Micro-credit component.

The May 2003 appraisal mission, found that little progress had been made to implement the action plan
agreedinDecember 2002, largely because of changes inthe PCU staffrelated to the new government. The
PCUhas been staffed and an organizational chart was prepared, but several positions already filled. Inthe
financial management department, an economist, an accountant, and an information technology specialist
were hired.

During the appraisal mission, a detailed action plan was prepared to implement financial management
arrangements, according to Bank standards. This action plan (see Annex 6 for details) will enable the PCU
to effectively execute its responsibilities. Some basic requirements o f the action plan were, however,
preconditions for negotiations: a) approved Terms o f Reference for hiringthe management firm. The TOR
will includeall financial management arrangementsagreedduringthe appraisalMission; b) that the bidding
process to hire such a firm has started; c) preparation o f a funds flow chart; and d) agreement o f FMR
formats and the timetable for their submission.

The financial management action plan was prepared in accordance with OPBP 10.02 and the Guidelines
for Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects issued by the
Financial Management Sector Board on June 2001. The Community Driven Development Projects
Guidelines (CDD Guidelines) were also referred to, where applicable. The objectives of the financial
management action plan were to build up the PCU capacity to: i)properly manage and account for all
project proceeds, costs and transactions, ii)produce timely, accurate and reliable financial statements and
reports for general and Bank special purposes, iii)engage reliable independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and iv) disburse Bank finds in the most efficient way and following applicable Bank rules and
procedures.

A preliminary assessment was also conducted for AFAP. The development bank was deemed to have an
adequate financial management system but insufficient personnel to respond to the demands of the
proposed project. Thus, the assessment recommended a) AFAP issue Financial Situation Reports for
Component 2 that would then be consolidated in an overall report on the project from ADAP to the Bank;
b) AFAP should be staffed up to handle its financial management responsibilities, both internally and in
terms of Bank reporting; c) the existing financial management system should be modified to generate SOEs
and Financial Situation Reports, following the format adopted by ADAP but adapted to the Bank's
reporting requirements; and d) terms of reference should be prepared for auditing AFAP's implementation
of Component 2. For both AD@ and AFAP, their respective financial management systems must be in
place not later than loan effectiveness.


                                                    - 22 -

5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project was designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Bank's umbrella policy on
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). Environmental impacts of the project are expected to be positive or
neutral because of: a) the small scale of sub-projects; b) the environmentally-beneficial nature o f many
anticipated sub-projects such as agroforestry systems, water purification systems, cultivation of medicinal
plants, improved soil conservation techniques, seedling nurseries, beekeeping, and actions that will benefit
urban wetlands; c) a requirement that sub-projects are consistent with locally-defined visions for
sustainable development; d) preparation of a simplified environmental impact report with mitigating
measures for each sub-project; e) environmentally-sound templates for especially rural sub-projects will be
used wherever possible; and f) use of a negative list of sub-projects that will not be financed, tailored
according to ecosystem. Despite these anticipated impacts, submission of an Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) was consideredprudent to ensure conformity with Bankpolicy.
5.2 What are the mainfeatures of the EMP and are they adequate?
The State's EnvironmentalManagement Planrequires separate procedures for each of the three components
that could potentially have negative impacts.

    UrbanCommunityDevelopment Sub-projects impact-scoping for this component identifieda long
                                                         -
    list o f positive effects and a short list o f risks concerning sewerage and water supply, solid waste
    management and drainage. The EMP for this component requires: a) preparation o f an environmental
    profile for each low-income neighborhood to identify potential environmental issues and areas o f risk;
    b) formulation of an environmental checklist for each neighborhood that will be completed as part of
    sub-project preparation in that neighborhood (the EMP includes a model checklist); c) review and
    approval o f the checklist and any mitigation measures by the PAC; and d) monitoring of sub-project
    implementation to ensure that mitigation measures are followed and are effective. Special precautions
    will be taken for proposed investmentsinurban wetlands. Investments will only be permittedinsettled
    wetlands that have been environmentally zoned for development activities. Inaddition, preference will
    be given to sub-projects that protect or improve environmentally fragile wetlands; activities in urban
    wetlands that encourage additional settlement, threaten biodiversity or the provision of environmental
    services, or rely onunlicensed landfillingwill not be financed.
    Strengthening Institutions for Poverty Reduction - impact-scoping concluded that past investments
    financed by the AMASOL program o f AFAP did not create significant negative environmental
    impacts. However, there is a risk that even small-scale activities can create environmental risks and
    that a system monitoring and control system was justified. The EMP for this component requires that:
    a) eachrequest for financing include relevant environmental information (e.g., distance o f activity from
    nearest watercourse, hygienic conditions for workers, anticipated use o f any toxic or hazardous
    materials, possible emissions of solid, liquid or gaseous wastes, etc.); b) where possible risks are
    detected, the financing proposal will be re-designed to avoid negative impacts; and c) the at-risk
    proposal will apply for and receive any necessaryenvironmental license prior to receiving financing. In
    addition, incentives will be contemplated to encourage proposals that are environmentally sustainable
    (e.g., recycling) andor that promote environmental rehabilitation (e.g., seedling nurseries).     This is
    especially relevant for a secondproject where re-capitalization i s anticipated.
0   Rural Community Development Sub-projects - impact-scoping involved the identification of
    environmental risks posedby 28 o f the most likely sub-projects as well as mitigation measures and the
    possible need to obtain environmental licenses. This information has been incorporated inthe standard
    sub-project dossiers to help associations minimize environmental problems at the design stage. The


                                                      - 23 -

    EMP for this component consists of the following requirements: a) identifying possible impacts, the
    need for additional study and environmental licensing during sub-project preparation; b) screening of
    sub-project proposals by the PCU, with input from SEMA and IBAMA where necessary; c) PAC
    review and approval of simplified environmental impact analysis, including mitigation measures and
    monitoring indicators where appropriate; d) community training on environmental impacts and
    responsibilities for mitigation prior to sub-project implementation; e) implementation of mitigation
    measures where needed; and f) monitoring and periodic review. Also, the PCU will employ a negative
    list o f sub-projects not to be financed which is reproducedbelow.

Negative EnvironmentalList. The project will not finance activities in strict environmental protection
areas, trade in endangered species of flora and fauna, and mining. The following table summarizes, by
ecosystem, the types of sub-projects that will not be financed because of their highrisk for environmental
damage.


                       Ecosystem                                           ProhibitedActivity
Tropical Forest                                            0 Extractionandprocessing o fwoodwithout a
                                                              managementplan
                                                           0 Extractiono fother naturalresourceswith
                                                              irreversible environmental impacts
                                                              Uncontrolleduse of fire
                                                           0  Clearingand planting o f agricultural land that
                                                              results indeforestation
Savannah(cerrado)                                             Expansion of industrial and semi-industrial
                                                              monocropping
                                                           0  Expansion o f monocroppingthat requires
                                                              clearing of >3 ha of nativevegetation
                                                              Uncontrolled use of fire
Coastal and floodplain (vhzea)                                Unsustainable industrial-scale fishing
                                                           0  High-impact, unmanagedextraction o f other
                                                              naturalresources
                                                           0 Fishfarming with exotic species, e.g., tilapia
Urbanwetland                                               0  Activities that result innew wetland settlements
                                                              or densification o f existing settled wetlands
                                                           0  Activities that harmwetland biodiversity or
                                                              environmental services
                                                           0  Activities that require unlicensed landfilling o f
                                                              wetlands

In addition to these component-specific EMPs, the following actions will be undertaken to improve the
environmental performance of the project: a) environmental management training for the PC, the PCU,
AFAP staff, Municipal Development Fora, and associations; b) involvement of SEMA and IBAMAinthe
design o f information and dissemination campaigns for the project; c) demarcation and participatory
ecological-economic zoning of urban wetlands in Macaph and Santana; and d) one or more regional
environmental impact analyses to identify the cumulative effect (positive or negative) o f potential
investments inpriority areas.
5.3 For Category A andBprojects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: February 2003; updated May 2003


                                                       - 24 -

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeenconsulted at the stage of (a) environmental screeningand (b) draR EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposedenvironment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
Project preparation since February 2002 has involvedthe participationo f over 500 potentialbeneficiaries
and other stakeholdersincluding state and local government agencies, Municipal Development Fora,
NGOs, indigenous groups, Afro-Brazilian communities, the private sector, academia, andthe proposed
implementingagencies.These consultations have involveddiscussionsof the Bank's safeguardpolicies.
Duringthe final preparation phase, the Government postedthe EA/EMP onthe state's web site for public
comment, maintainedcopies of the Planavailable for public review at the ADAP offices, and organized a
public consultation (April28,2003) that involvedstate and federal agencies involved inenvironmental
managementas well as representativesof relevant civil society organizations.
5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablishedto monitor and evaluatethe impact o f the project onthe
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o fthe EMP?
The mechanismsare those that have beenproposed inthe EMPs for each of the three relevant components
(see 5.2 above), Le., the checklist for urban sub-projects, the information sheet for micro-credit loans and
simple impact evaluation system for rural sub-projects. Specific indicators for each o f these are included in
the EMPreport.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There should be positive impacts on indigenous and traditional peoples through the targeted community
sub-projects that seek to benefit indigenous groups, Afro-Brazilian communities (quilombos) and groups o f
poor women and youth. N o resettlement i s envisioned under the project. It was decided that an Indigenous
Peoples Development Strategy should be prepared duringproject elaboration in accordance with OD 4.20
as indigenous peoples will be affected by the project. After consultation with the state, preparation of this
strategy was expanded to include other special beneficiaries, Le., Afro-Brazilians residing in quilombos
(known as quilombolas), and low-income women andadolescents.

In the first round of consultations, individualized contacts were made with women's organizations,
quilombola leaders, representativeso f the different indigenous groups living in Amapa, representatives of
non-governmental organizations working for a long period o f time with these groups, and academic
specialists with renowned understanding of these social groups. The objectives of this first round of
consultations were: (a) a survey o f information on the current status o f these groups, their level o f
organization and capacity o f representationingovernment agencies; (b) the mapping o f institutions working
withthem and ofthe characteristicsofthe programs andprojects they havebeencarrying out; (c) collecting
existing materials from secondary sources; (d) preliminary dissemination o f project objectives and
guidelines; and (e) opening o f channels o f consultation and debate about the project. Inthis stage, the state's
project preparation team also participated inthe General Assembly o f the Indigenous Peoples o f Oiapoque
and in the First Forum o f Quilombo Remnant Communities of Amapii, describing and discussing the
project and the proposal for the inclusion andparticipation of these social groups.

InFebruary2003, a new roundof consultations took place with entities representing and/or working with
these different social groups. Consultations were held with representative governmental and
non-governmental entities and/or those dealing with indigenous, quilombola, gender and generational



                                                    - 25 -

issues, and data was collected to: (a) adjust the project proposal to the sociocultural specifics that
distinguishthese special groups; (b) ensure their access to project benefits; and (c) ensure their adequate
participation inthe project's decision-making bodies.

The proposed strategies for the participation of these special social groups (see Annex 13 for details)
respond to concerns regarding: (1) the tensions identified between these special social groups and
representatives of society as a whole in the immediate context of communities and municipalities
neighboring the areas where these populations are located (especially relevant for the case of indigenous
and quilombola populations); (2) the risks that their demands are not heard, considered and representedby
grassroots organizations of the communities where they reside (especially relevant for groups o f women
and youth, traditionally less organized and less active inrural areas); (3) the risk that their demands are not
taken into consideration andor handledby Municipal Development Fora; and (4) the differences in their
situation of existence and inclusion in local society, their capacity for organization and access to
government agencies, and their capacity for effective participationinlocal decision-making processes.

Finally, the project will employ a negative list to avoid investments that might create social problems
(similar to the environmental list in Section 5 above). Generally prohibited sub-projects include: purchase
of land; investments associated with the production of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and weapons;
construction of churches of any denomination; construction o f government administrative buildings; and
projects that benefit only one individual or family.
6.2 ParticipatoryApproach: How are key stakeholdersparticipatinginthe project?
There are several levels ofparticipation that have beenbuilt into project design:

0    Community level - community andproducer associationswill democratically decide on their priorities
     for sub-projects in Components 1 and 3, participate in sub-project design and implementation, and
     assume responsibility for sub-project management and maintenance. Assistance will be available to
     communities without associationsto create legal entities and facilitate their participation inthe project.
0   Municipal level proposals for sub-projects in Component 3 will be screenedthrough the appropriate
                      -
    Municipal Development Forum to ensure that they are consistent with plans for locally sustainable
     development. These fora exist in all sixteen of Amapi's municipalities, involve a wide range of
     stakeholdersand generally follow transparent procedures.
0    State level the Project Council (PC) would involve government and non-government stakeholders to
                -
     advise on questions ofproject implementation and sub-project selection.
0    Special groups the strategy for the participation o f special groups (indigenous peoples, quilombolas,
                      -
     women andadolescents) is describedinAnnex 13. Indigenous people and quilombolas will each have a
     special boardto prioritize sub-project proposals coming from their respective communities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The process of project preparation was highly participatory, involving over sixty separate consultations.
This approach began in the third quarter of 2000 when ADAP and RURAP visited ten municipalities to
survey potential beneficiaries about their preferences concerning rural sub-projects and continued through
the Bank's pre-appraisal mission. Consultations involving NGOs and other civil society organizations were
held in all sixteen o f the state's municipalities. Three approaches were used to involve this group of
stakeholders: a) individual andgroup meetings with civil society organizations; b) several meetings with all
of the state's Municipal Development Fora which benefit from significant NGO participation; and c)
targetedmeetingswith NGOs that are involved inindigenous, Afro-Brazilian, gender and youth issues.



                                                    - 26 -

Duringproject implementation, consultations will take place through the mechanisms that are describedin
para. 6.2 above. In addition to participation in the Municipal Development Fora and the PAC, NGOs
would be involved in sub-project design as potential providers o f technical assistance for Components 1
and 3. The creation and strengthening of community and producers' associations would improve the
participation of civil society inthe project.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshavebeenprovidedto ensure the project achievesits social
development outcomes?
Implementation o f a communications strategy would raise awareness among the rural and urban poor as
well as special groups about the project's aims, opportunities and procedures. Special assistance would be
provided to establish legal associations in communities that are not well-organized to participate in the
project. The PCU would use regionally-based staff to disseminate information about the project and
provide general support to potential beneficiaries. Associations would receive financial support for
obtaining technical assistance to assist with sub-project design and, in some cases, implementation. The
technical and organizational capacity o f the highly participatory Municipal Development Fora would be
strengthenedwith project resources. The monitoring and evaluation indicators usedby project management
would include those selectedto track social progress. Special strategieshave been designed to promote the
social development of indigenouspeople, quilombolas, women and adolescents.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Learning about social development outcomeswill take place through the following mechanisms:

Before/after study    - The project has developed social development and other performance indicators.
Baseline data will then be collected ina representativesample ofpoor rural communities at the outset ofthe
project. At the mid-term and end o f the project, new indicator data will be collected and results compared
withthe baseline;
Institutional assessment - the local Municipal Development Fora will be evaluated before and after the
project to assess their: a) managerial capacity; b) representativeness of key vulnerable groups; and c)
transparency of decision-making procedures;
Stakeholder workshops - beneficiaries and project administrators will hold workshops to evaluate
sub-projects and draw lessons from their implementation; and
Independent comparative review - a consultant will evaluate the project, compare it with similar
experiences, including the RPAPs and the PDA and RESEXprojects, and draw conclusions about what the
project has contributed to learning.

Inaddition, the project would benefit from supervision missions to have the opportunity to adjust the
implementation strategy according to lessons learned. Lessonswill then be integrated into the design
of a follow-on project to scale up successfulexperiencesand impacts.

7. Safeguard Policies:




    Safety of Dams(OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            0Yes 0No

                                                   -27-

     ProiectsinInternationalWaters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)                   0Yes 0No
I    ProiectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*               I         0Yes 0No                     I

7.2 Describeprovisions made bythe project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
Preparation o f an Environmental Management Plan (see Annex 12) and an Indigenous Peoples
Development Strategy (see Annex 13). For the Natural Habitats Policy, the project will employ a negative
list that was designed to protect particular ecosystems (see section 5.2 above) and, in the case o f urban
wetlands, a series of measures for their protection and improvement.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability o f this project can be evaluatedalong four different dimensions: financial, environmental,
politicalhstitutional, and in terms o f replicability. Financially, the project will generate employment and
increased family income by increasing access of the poor to credit, financing productive sub-projects and
enhancing living conditions. There i s a significant pent-up demand for micro-credit in the state, largely
because small and medium-scale enterpriseshave very few affordable sources o f finance. By implementing
a number o f standard reforms and scaling up to respond to this demand, AFAP can become financially
sustainable. The financial analysis o f rural productive sub-projects indicates acceptable to high rates o f
return. Improvements in health, educational attainment and professional capacity through urban and rural
community sub-projects should also contribute to the financial sustainability ofthe loan.

Environmentally, the project will contribute to sustainable development through various mechanisms. At a
minimum, the environmental management plans for Components 1-3 will ensure that any potentially
negative environmental impacts are mitigated. More positively, many o f the potential urban sub-projects
could result in improved environmental conditions and health in poor neighborhoods. Positive
environmental outcomes will be especially encouraged for settlements located in urban wetlands. Inrural
areas, investment proposalsmustbe consistentwith the locally-definedvision o f sustainabledevelopment in
order to move forward. Many of the pre-identified rural sub-projects are oriented towards sustainable
natural resource management and environmental rehabilitation. Finally, the project will make use o f
ecological-economic zoning to orient sub-project investment inenvironmentally appropriate areas.

Institutionally, the project seeks to make a significant investment incapacity buildingat various levels. Key
state agencies involved in project implementation (ADAP, AFAP, RURAP) will be institutionally
strengthened, especially in the areas of project management and implementation. At the local level, the
Municipal Development Fora and urban neighborhood associations will be reinforced in the areas o f
planning, monitoring and evaluating so that they can continue to be viable partners during and beyond the
life of the project. At the community level, existing urban and rural associations will be strengthened in
topics such as project design, budgeting, contracting, and maintenance, and new ones will be created inan
effort to give more voice to under-represented communities. Political sustainability is more difficult to
predict. The current administration has given the project the highest priority interms of attention, skills and
resources. A positive sign is that the project concept was discussed and received the support of the
gubernatorial candidatesfrom all four major parties duringthe 2002 elections.

Opportunities for replicationinclude applying lessonsleamedfrom the project for:

J        The follow-on project;


                                                      - 28 -

J        Sector work to help re-orient existing state programs and policies;
J        One or more Amapi-type projects for other poor Brazilian states inthe Amazon basin;
J        Designo f the recently requestedForest Sector Loan; and
J        Sharing knowledge with other counties in the region through the Bank-supported Amazon Forest
         Network and the Amazon Treaty Cooperation Organization.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
The social risks o f undertaking the project are low, as the political situation i s stable, no civil unrest i s
present inthe state, and opposition o f key stakeholdersto the proposed activities is expectedto be limitedto
partisan politics. In addition to contributing a counterpart equivalent to 10% o f the value o f each
sub-project, each community will be expected to commit to assuming responsibility for operating and
maintaining the investment. Positive benefits are expectedto accrue to the Bank's reputation as a result of
its involvement inthe project, especially since this would be the first stand-alone Bankloanto the state
of AmapB. The potential positive social outcomes are high, and far outweigh the very low social risks to
the Bank o fundertakingthe operation.


                      Risk                        Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Macro-economic policiescouldeliminate                 M          - As the sub-projects will be financed by grants
 the project's positive results                                   (with local counterpart contributions),
                                                                  beneficiaries will be somewhat shielded from
                                                                  interest rate fluctuations
                                                                  - Similarly,the.micro-credit programwillbe
                                                                  able to offer affordable interest rates for
                                                                  small-scale loans
                                                                  - A prudent exchange rate was chosento
                                                                  anticipate foreign currency volatility
 There will be little synergy betweenthe               M          - The Project Coordination Unit have the
                                                                                                     will
 project andother government investments                          capacity to integrate activities o f the Bank and
 at the local level                                               IDBloans
                                                                  - the Project Councilwill be one mechanismfor
                                                                  informing, ifnot coordinating, key government
                                                                  actors that are working inthe same physical or
                                                                  thematic area
 The communities' technical capacity to                 H         - Technical assistance will be providedto
 implement projects may be insufficient                           communities to organize legal associations and
 andit will bedifficult to effectively                            buildcapacity to design andmanagetheir
 mobilize community groups to participate                         sub-projects andto follow appropriate
 intheproject                                                     accounting and procurement practices
                                                                  - The participationoftraditionally excluded
                                                                  groups inthe Municipal Development Forawill
                                                                  be encouraged
 The state's institutional capacity to                  H         - A managementfirmwill be contracted to help
 implement the project may be insufficient                        the PCUwith project administrationandto
                                                                  buildits capacity duringthe first 2-3 years
                                                                  - Investmentswillbemadeinbuildingthe
                                                                  capacity o f key state partners (ADAP,MAP,



                                                      - 29 -

                                                                   mRAP)
                                                                   .Implementation ofthe procurement and
                                                                   financial management capacity planswill be
                                                                   Aosely monitored
MunicipalDevelopment Foramay not                      N            .A dialogue withtheForawillbemaintained
ictively participate inproject execution                           ;luringproject start-up to sustaintheir interest
                                                                   indenthusiasmfor the project
                                                                   .Technical assistance, training andother
                                                                   support will be provided to the Fora to assist
                                                                   :hemwith their responsibilities
Crom Components to Outputs
The project will not result ina real                  M            .Simple, powerfulindicators ofdevelopment
:eduction o fpoverty and social inequality                         impactwill be monitored and evaluatedto
                                                                   ietermine whether the project is truly reducing
                                                                   2overty and promoting socialjustice
                                                                   - Mid-course corrections inproject design will
                                                                   De effected ifobjectives are not being achieved
Municipaldependence on the state                       S           - Some ofthe increasedlocal-leveleconomic
government will continue to be high                                activity shouldbe captured by municipal
                                                                   governments inthe form o f fee, tax andother
                                                                   -revenues
                                                                     Assistance with state administrative reform

The project will not respondto real                   N            -shouldprocesso f sub-project identification by
                                                                           includethe question of municipalfinance
                                                                     The
:omunity needs                                                     transparentcommunity and producer
                                                                   associations, combinedwith review by a
                                                                   Municipal Development Forum or neighborhook
                                                                   association, will be part of project

Adequate technical assistance may not be              M            -implementationwill have access to a broadrange
                                                                     Associations
available                                                          of technical assistanceproviders (government
                                                                   agencies, NGOs, private firms and individual
                                                                   -professionals)expertise may be neededinsome
                                                                     Out-of-state

NGOsand communities may be excluded                    N           -cases
                                                                     NGOswill be a possible source o ftechnical
from effectivelyparticipating inthe                                assistance
project                                                            - Community participationi an intrinsic part 01
                                                                                                 s
                                                                   the project design
Overall Risk Rating                                    S
3isk Rating- H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRi:  .M (Modest  Risk). F Negligibleor Low Risk)
The project is given a Substantial Risk ratin! Iecause of the challenges posed in terms of project management,
communitymobilizationand municipaldepenc ice on the state government.


3. PossibleControversialAspects:
There are no existing or envisagedcontroversial features o f this project.

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
   An OperationalManual that is satisfactory to the Bankhas beenissued by the Borrower, including: a)
   simplified guidelines for sub-project preparation for community/producer associations; and b)
   guidelines for environmental protection and sustainability;
0  A Consultant firm to assist and train the PCU incarrying out its functions, especially in the areas of
   procurement, financial managementand operation of the MIS, has been employed by the Borrower;
0  Two procurement specialists and an accountant have been employed by the Borrower to work with the
   PCU, under terms ofreferenceand having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank;
0  The MIS, including a financial management system, apt to provide records and accounts and prepare
   financial statements acceptable to the Bank, has become fully operational inADAP and AFAP, to the
   satisfaction o f the Bank.

2. Other [classify accordingto covenanttypes used in the Legal Agreements.]
   Negotiation conditions: a) the process o f contracting the management firm shall be well-advanced and
   satisfactory to the Bank; b) the Terms of Reference of the Operational Manual shall be completed and
   the professional to prepare it has been identified; and c) the consultancy for preparing the AFAP
   business plan shall be contracted;
   Execution o f the uroiect: a) By September 30 of each year during project implementation, a draft
   Operating Plan and Budget satisfactory to the Bank shall be prepared and presented. This Plan shall
   detail the project's activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding year and the
   respective sources of funding thereof; and b) not latter than 30 days after the approval of the
   Borrower's annual budget by its Legislative Assembly, the final Operating Plan and Budget shall be
   furnished to the Bank.
   Disbursement condition: Prior to the implementation of subprojects, a Law shall be approved by the
   state Assembly and sanctioned by the Government permitting the transfer of public funding to              '


   community organizations and civil associations (private sector.) Government, which counts with a
   majority o f representatives in the state Assembly, has assured the Bank that such Law shall be issued
   before effectiveness, without risk of delaying the project's implementation.


H. Readinessfor Implementation
   1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities arecomplete andready for the start
         ofproject implementation.
IxI1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
      project implementation.
   3. The Project ImplementationPlanhas been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
      quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):




                                                   - 31 -

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bank policies.




Team Leade;                              Sector ManagerlDirector    Country ManagerlDirector




                                                  - 32 -

r                                    Annex I:Project Design Summary
                                BRAZIL:Amapa SustainableCommunities
                                                                 Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives                                                                           CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:        Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:       from Goal to Bank Mission)
LEARNLESSONSABOUT:              1) Fall inrural poverty and      ;AS 2002-2007, Progress        Jot specified inCAS
                                )ut-migration; greater lending teport, Rural Development
Promote knowledge andbuild 'or micro-entrepreneurs;             Strategy, RuralPoverty
consensus about the road to an mprovedcoverage and              illeviationinBrazil, Poverty
equitable andsustainable        )overty targeting o f rural      'rofile for Brazil
Brazil, that is poverty and     .oads, water and energy
participatory focused.
                                l) Increased coverage o f water
                                indsanitation; modemized
                                iector institutions and
                                .egulations; upgradedpoor
                                lrban neighborhoods


Project Development             htcome I Impact                  'roject reports:               from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                      ndicators:
Learn lessons about how to      ;essons learned about how to:      0  annual economic            0  the impacts o f
reduce rural andurban           I. Reduceruralandurban                statistics                    macro-economic policies
poverty though development      ioverty inthe Amazon               0  population census             will not eliminate the
that is economically efficient, l. Improve living standards        0  government economic           project's positive results
socially equitable and          !. Conserve naturalresources           and environmental         0  synergy will exist
environmentally sustainable     1. Buildsocial and                     indicators                   betweenproject actions
                                nstitutional capital               0  reports from the project      and other government
                                                                       monitoring and               investments at the local
                                                                       evaluation system            level
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES:            ,essons learned about how to:
Learn lessonsabout how to:       0  Benefit families through       0   project impact            0  Sufficient
1.Improve ruralliving                sub-project investments           evaluations                  complementarity betweer
conditions by a) increasing      0  Achieve a reduction in         0   semi-annual project          project actions and other
accessto rural credit, social        rural and urban povertj           reports                      sources o f finance
services, technical assistance,      rates                         0   micro-credit supervision  0  Successful capacity to
and basic infrastructure, and    0   Improve the welfare oj            reports                      mobilize community
b) supporting productive and         sub-project beneficiaries     0   Municipal Development        groups
sustainable economic             0   Generate new income               Forumreports              0  Adequate institutional
activities                       0   Support microenterprises                                       capacity to implementthc
                                     by accessto adequate                                           project at state and local
2. Reduce urbanpoverty               financial tools                                                levels
through a) support to            0   Increase social capital for                                 0  Municipal Development
sustainable economic                 community development                                          Fora actively
activities that increase         0   Improve the participatior                                      participating inproject
income, andb) improved               o f organized and special                                       implementation
community livingconditions           groups         (indigenous
                                     quilombola, women anc
3. Expandthe supply of               Youth)
sustainable formal financial
services to microenterprises

4. Buildsocial capital and


                                                            - 33 -

reinforce community
organizations, including
beneficiary participation in
the decision-making process
and shared responsibility for
managing public resources
          RESULTS:
1.Productive family and           0  Number o f sub-projects     0Semi-annualreports by  0 Realreduction inpoverty
community enterprises                implemented                  ADAP                     and social inequality
supported and implemented ir      0  Community development       0Monthly AFAP credit    0 Reducedmunicipal
rural and urban areas                plansprepared                supervision reports      dependence on state
                                  0  New credit lines created    0Quarterly supervision  0 Ability to effectively meet
2. Social infrastructure,         0  Numbero fmicro-credit        reports by RURAP         community needs
community development and            loans made                  0Banksupervision        0 Privatization o f some
environmental management          0  Cost-effectiveness o f       missions                 technical assistance to
implemented inthe poorest            social investments          0Information from the     overcome limits o f
urbanneighborhoods                0  Numberofbeneficiary          project management       existing public system
                                     communities involved in      system                 0 Effective NGOrole in
3. Microcredit operation             project                                               sub-project identification,
financially sustainable and       0  Number o f Fora or                                    design and management
expanded operation with focus        similar groups                                      0 Active community
on the poor.                         participating                                         participationindesigning
                                  0  Number of special groups                              sustainable sub-projects
4. Social andphysical                participating                                       0 Beneficiaries able to
infrastructure improved inthe     0  Project management                                    internalize the concept o f
poorest rural areas                  structure functioning                                 financial sustainability
                                  0  At least 10% ofrural                                  for productive
5. Integrated, participatory         sub-project resources                                 sub-projects
and multi-institutional              benefiting special groups                           0 Fora and communities
management system                 0  Partners trained and                                  able to participate in
implemented that builds local        capable o f implementing                              monitoring and
capacity                             project                                                evaluation
                                  0  At least halfofproductive
                                     investments financially
                                     sustainable

         ACTIVITIES                                                                      Assumptions that can affect
1. UrbanCommunity               I . US$1.79 million              0Semi-annual reports    esults)
Development Sub-projects      !.US$1.02 million                  0Supervision missions   0  Quality o fPCUcapacity
                              i. US$2.55million                  0Monitoring and            to manage the project
2. Institutional              I.US$l.O2million                    evaluation system      0  Availability o f adequate
Strengthening for Poverty                                                                   counterpart funds
Reduction                                                                                0  Efficient financial flow
                                                                                         0  Project procedures
3. Rural Community                                                                          properly followed by
Development Sub-projects                                                                    project participants
                                                                                         0  Effective implementation
4. Capacity Buildingfor                                                                     o fmonitoring &
Participatory Management                                                                    evaluation and financial
and Technical Assistance                                                                    systems
                                                                                         0  Successful provisionof
                                                                                            technical assistance




                                                           - 34 -

Iutput from each              Output indicators:              'roject reports:           From Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
:omponent 1:Urban             1. Numberandtype of              PCU semi-annual Progress     . Subprojects will target the
:omunity Development          subprojects                     teports                    rbanpoor
hb-projects                   2. Number of subprojects         MIS                         . Neighborhoods effectively
                                                               WB SupervisionReports     lrioritize needs
 .                            operating and
   Neighborhood               well-maintained one andtwo       Neighborhood association     . Continued political support
levelopment plans prepared    years after sub-project         .eports                    t local, state andnational
ndapprovedby communities      completion                                                 :vel for community based
!. Socio-environmental        3. Number o fpoor urban
ub-projects implemented and   households participating per                               ..pproach
                                                                                              Neighborhood associations
naintained                    sub-project andper year                                      re able to implement good
   Neighborhood associations 4. [Number o f formal                                       luality subprojects.
irganized to plan and         neighborhoodassociations                                     1. Ressacazoning respected
rrticulate their needs        participating]/[total number of                              1. Environmental safeguards
                              communities inproject area]                                ibserved andany necessary
                              5. Growth innumber o f                                     nitigationmeasures
                              formal neighborhood                                        mplemented
                              associations
                              6. Numbero f subproject
                              proposals submittedyear
                              7. Number o f women and
                              youth associations with
                              approvedfinanced subprojects
                              8. Number o f women and
                              youth benefiting from
                              subprojects
                              9. Number o f subprojects
                              with environment-oriented
                              activities
                              10. Number o f licenses
                              obtained from state
                              environment agencies
                              11. Number offines applied
                              to associations for not
                              observing environmental
                              safeguards
Zomponent 2: Strengthening    Expandedsupply to formal        Mission                      4FAP management focus on
nstitutions for Poverty       sustainable financial services                               low arrears and financial
ieduction                                                                                  sustainability objectives

1. Capacity o f AMASOL        -1.FMS  installed andused,       1.4. PMR                    MAP succeedsin
irogram strengthened and      variable remuneration system MunicipalDevelopment            implementing all
irogram financially           andproductivity tools            Progress Report             recommended efficiency tools
relf-sustainable              installed and tested,                                        to reach financial
1.1.Development strategy of   - staffandloanofficers                                       $elf-sustainability
4MASOL implemented            trained - Financial              1.5. Supervision Mission
:FMS, training, cost-centers, sustainability o fAMASOL                                     Subsidized credit lines do not
:harging system, productivity achieved                                                      undermine repayment
:ools implementedand used,    - Portfolio-at-risk reducedto                                 discipline o f clients
1.2.Loan Officer Productivity 4%
rools implemented (staff      - Loanofficer   productivity     1.6.PMR                      Sufficient political and



                                                          - 35 -

 training, charging             higher than 250 clients                                        iureaucratic support
 methodology, productivity      - cost centers created and                                     nobilized to modemize the
 increase, variable             profitable                                                      tate administrative apparatus
 remunerations system)          - Program   expands coverage         .7. PMWSupervision
 1.3. Marketing studies and     inat least 7 municipalities        dission
 outreach strategy              - New ruralmodel tested inat
 implemented(training,          least 4 test areas and
 branches, cost-centers)        evaluated
 1.4. Rural Outreach Strategy   - Annual environmental
 andFeasibility Studies         training modules and
 defined and implemented (test recycling o f staff effected
 o f a rural micro-credit       - PublishedProgramResults
 approach)                      certified by due diligence
 1.5. Environmental             - dissemination seminars and
 Management defined and         publications
 implemented (training o f      - daily averageo f
 loan officers, mitigation      portfolio-at-risk
 strategies)                    - loan loss rate
 1.6.New financial products     2.
 developed and implemented      - average loansize o f active
 (savings, diversification o f  clients, new clients and
 current products, staff        renewed clients
 insurance)
 1.7. Basic components of       -- number o factive clients
                                   numberofbranches and
 independent status within      their profitability
 AFAP defined and               - number o f rural credit
 implemented (legal studies,    operations
 due diligence reviews,         - number of loan officers
 dissemination strategy         - administrative  costsiaverage  :.Supervision
                                loanportfolio
 2. Expandedaccessto            - loanofficer productivity
 microcredit services inthe
 State o fAmapd (urbanand       3.
 rural expansion)               - public expenditure &             1. Bank Supervision Mission
                                programreview completed
 3. State administrative        - Functional review o fpriority
 reforms analyzed, prioritized  government agencies prepared
 and planned                    - Consensus-building
I                               workshops undertaken
                                - Reform strategy prepared
                                andadopted
 Component 3: Rural             1. Number and type o f               PCUsemi-annual Progress   I. Subprojects willtarget the
 Community Development          subprojects                      leports                       w a l poor
 Sub-projects                   2. Number o f subprojects            MIS                       !. Communities effectively
                                operating and                        WB SupervisionReports      Irioritize needs
 1. Social, environmental and well-maintained one andtwo             Municipal Development      1. Continued political suppon
 productive infrastructure      years after subproject             iora reports                it local, state and national
 implemented and maintained.    completion                                                      eve1for community based
 2. Poverty reduction and       3. Cost-effectiveness and                                      ipproach
 increased well-being achieved quality o fbasic infrastructure                                  4. Community and producer
 with improvements in           andsocio-environmental                                         issociations are able to
 environmental quality          subprojects                                                    mplement good quality
 3. Community associations      4. Economic efficiency and                                     ubprojects.



                                                            - 36 -

organizedto meet ownneeds.     inancial viability o f                                        . Zoningrespected
4. Municipal Development       iroductive subprojects                                        I.Environmental safeguards
Fora strengthened inorder to   ;. [Number offormal                                           lbservedand any necessary
set local priorities, rank     .ommunity                                                     nitigation measures
sub-project proposals and      .ssociations]/[total number of                                mplemented
participate inmonitoring o f   iommunities inproject area]
sub-project implementation     i. Growth innumber of
                               :ommunityandproductive
                               .ssociations
                               '. Numberofsubproject
                                  iroposals submittedyear
                               I. Percentage o f women in
                               dunicipal Development Fora
                               adcommunity associations
                                  1. Numberofquilombolas,
                                  vomen, indigenous andyouth
                                  ssociations andmembers
                                  vithapprovedfinanced
                                  ubprojects
                                    0. Number o f subprojects
                                  vith environment-oriented
                                  .ctivities
                                    1. Numberof licenses
                                  ibtained from state
                                  lnvironment agencies
                                    2. Number o f fines applied
                                  o associations for not
                                  Ibservingenvironmental
                                  afeguards
 Component 4:
 Capacity Buildingfor                                                                        1. Management fm
 Participatory Management                                          PCU semi-annual Progress  :ontracted and services
 andTechnical Assistance                                          teports                    :onsidered timely ando f
                                                                   M I S                     Satisfactory quality
                                                                   WB Supervision Reports    2. Adequate (number and
 1. Reinforce and Strengthen                                                                 qualification) counterpart stafl
 ADAP andPCUcapacity to                                                                      3.  Adequate working
 adequately manage the                                                                       :nvironment involving
 project, both technically and                                                               :onsultants and state staff in
 financially                                                                                 PCUand other concerned
 2. Monitoring and evaluation                                                                igencies
 system                                                                                      1. Agencies responsiveto
 3. Collaboration with SEMA                                                                  Zhanges associated with
 and national environmental                                                                  implementation of
 protection agency (IBAMA)                                                                   decentralized projects
~
                                                                                             5. Adequate provision of stat(
                                                                                             counterpart funds



                                  nputs: (budget for each         Project reports:           (from Components to
 Sub-components:                  :omponent)                                                 Outputs)
 1. UrbanSubprojects                .US$1.79 million              1. PCU semi-annual Progrest 1. Timely flow of counterparl
                                                                  1.Reports                   1.Timely flow of counterpart



                                                             - 37 -

2. Institutional Strengthening I. US$1.02 million      !.WB semi-annual           undsto PCU
                                                       iupervision missions       .  Subprojects will be high
3. Rural Subprojects           3. US$2.55 million      I.Monitoringand Evaluation uality and sustainable
                                                       system                     . Municipal Development
4. Capacity Building           4. US$1.05 million                                 'ora inall municipalities
                                                                                  except Macapa & Santana)
                                                                                  .. Fora andneighborhood
                                                                                  ssociations are representative
                                                                                  I fconstituents
                                                                                   . Fora are given clear
                                                                                  ndicative budgets for
                                                                                  ffective decision making
                                                                                  I. Technical assistance
                                                                                  ervices are available and are
                                                                                  isedby associations

                                                                                  I. Subprojects will be
                                                                                  naintained over time
                                                                                  ;. Credit providedby AFAP
                                                                                  eaches intended beneficiaries




                                                   - 38 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                              BRAZIL:Amapa Sustainable Communities

The proposed project would be implemented over three years and has four components. The components
are: 1) Urban community development sub-projects; 2) Institutional strengthening for poverty reduction; 3)
Rural community development sub-projects; and 4) Capacity building for participatory management and
technical assistance. The project would support the Bank's central CAS objective for Brazil o f poverty
reduction. Its goal would be to reduce rural and urban poverty while contributing to environmental
sustainability.
By Component:

Project Component 1 US$1.79 million
                       -
UrbanCommunitvDeveloumentSub-projects

This component will focus on the poorest neighborhoods in the cities of Macaph, Santana and Laranjal do
Jari through the preparation and implementation of community development plans. The plans will be
preparedin a participatory manner and will encompass social development and environmental sub-projects.
Anticipated sub-projects will address problems related to: low levels of community organization, lack o f
skills and educational opportunities, the absence of community planning, occupation of environmentally
sensitive lands, poor sanitary conditions, and inadequateaccess to infrastructure and services. Examples o f
sub-projects include:

0    Infrastructure for community services (e.g., health and "community watch" posts, "one-stop" municipal
     service centers, day-care centers);
0    Constructiono fpublic areas (e.g., public markets, squares, parks, playgrounds);
0    Transportation infrastructure (e.g., roadpaving, passarelas for flood-prone areas, sidewalks, bus stops
     and local terminals);
0    Capacity-building activities (e.g., equipping and strengthening neighborhood associations, professional
     training, Englishand French courses, activities for youths, community surveys and studies);
0    Environmental infrastructure (e.g., small-scale works for sanitation, water supply, drainage, and solid
     waste management); and
0    Technical assistance for landregularization.

Implementation of the plans should help improve living conditions inpoor urban neighborhoods as well as
empower community organizations through their involvement in the planning process, implementation of
pilot activities and assistance for capacity building. Sub-projects will be implemented as much as possible
with other partners, such as the state and municipal governments, in order to leverage both resources and
impact. Specific sub-projects will also seek to link with and complement larger infrastructure investments
inthese three cities that couldbefinancedby anIDBprojectunder preparation.

The component is divided into the following sub-components:

     1.1Identificationofpriority neighborhoods
     1.2 Preparation o f neighborhood diagnostic studies inpriority areas
     1.3 Preparation o fneighborhood development plans inpriority areas
     1.4 Analysis and approval o f neighborhood sub-projects
     1.5 Implementation o f sub-projects
     1.6 Integratedplanningand environmental management



                                                    - 39 -

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will hold meetings in neighborhoods with the highest poverty
indicators to determine community interest in the project. A community profile will be prepared with
stakeholder participationto identifyneighborhoodcharacteristics, problems and options. Stakeholdersto be
involved in the initial meetings and profile preparation should include, at a minimum, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs),the municipal Community Works Secretariat, community associations (e.g., youth
groups, women's movements, singles and couples' associations), representative organizations from the
private sector, unions, and religious organizations. Community plans and their sub-projects should seek to
maximize benefits and minimize costs, rely on appropriate and manageable technologies and anticipate
community-based maintenance. Financial resources for the meetings, community profiles and participatory
planning will be administered by the PCU. The community will select technical assistance for sub-project
design andmaintenance which couldbeprovidedby anNGO, a private firm or a governmental agency. The
associations will be responsible for sub-project management, financial control and accounting. Ifa firm i s
selected to implement a sub-project, it will be registered and selected on a competitive basis. A flow chart
that describes the steps involved in sub-project preparation and approval, as well as the roles o f key actors
(community organization, neighborhood association, PCU, technical assistance provider, and PAC), i s
providedbelow.

Any sub-projects involving civil works should involve the participationof the community to be benefited.
Beneficiaries will sign an agreement with the PCU that will include a clear definition o f activities to be
implemented by the community, as well as outputs andmilestones. The agreementwill also include a list of
people who will be involved inthe sub-project and their time commitments. The community's commitment
and proposal for maintaining any infrastructure to be built through the sub-project should also be part o f
the agreement. In the case of civil works, responsible state and local authorities from the water and
sanitation utility, urban sanitation, planning, health, infrastructure, and environment should be involved.
Finally, this component should emphasize the participation o f poor women and youths inall stages (initial
meetings, community profile, community plan, sub-project design, and maintenance).

For planning purposes, it has been assumedthat the project will finance 30 sub-projects with an average
value o f R$150,000 (US$42,860).      A second project would include financing for an additional 90 urban
sub-projects.

The proposed IDB project, entitledthe "Amapi Urban Environmental Improvement Program (BR-0376),"
would be a loan of up to US$42 million (total project costs of up to US$70 million) for water and
sanitation, urban drainage, protection of flood-prone areas, and solid waste management in Macapi,
Santana and Laranjal do Jan. The water and sanitation component would include rehabilitation o f the
Pedrinhas Lake and collection infrastructure in Macapi, expansion of the water supply system in the
capital, and construction of reservoirs and distribution networks in all three cities. The drainage component
would include priority investments for building the Beirol Canal and micro-drainage throughout Macapi,
and preparation o f drainage master plans for all three cities. The flood-prone component will focus on
preventive and remedial measures inthree types o f high-riskzones inMacapi. The solid waste component
will assist Macaph's solid waste master plan and could undertake activities inthe two other cities as well.
The Bank's project has been designed in consultation with the IDB to avoid duplication and improve
synergy: a) both projects will be implemented by a coordinated project implementation structure; b) the
Bank will not finance infrastructure investments in the areas where the IDB will be working; and c)
community sub-projects will seek to link with and complement IDB investments. The Bank may, however,
finance small-scale water and sanitation, drainage and solid waste activities incommunities where the IDB
project will not be active.



                                                    - 40 -

I                                Flow     < art for P r e ~ a inp and ADDrovinP Urbar iub-Droiec
     Stage / Actor         Community            Neighborhood                        PCU                      Service             PC
                          Organization           Association                                                Provider
 1. Disseminationo f   E) Mobilized          D) Meets to receive   A) Defines priority areas; prepares   2) Contracted    B) Consulted
 project and           through field visits  informationabout      and implements dissemination plan     :o prepareand    about the
 mobilizationo f       andinformation        the project and                                             iistribute       componentand
 target groups         providedthrough      participates in                                              iissemination    its dissemination
                       various media         dissemination at                                            material         strategy
                                             neighborhoodlevel
 2. Preparation o fpre 4) Membership        i) Canprovide         A) Assists organizations in
 proposal              neets to identify    ssistance with        priorityareas with meetings and
                       cey problems and     ompleting the pre-    preparationo fpre-proposals
                       iolutions, select an roposal form
                       ipproach and fillou
                       he pre-proposal
                       O r m

 3. Prioritization                          4) Receivesand        B) Receivesprioritizedlist o f
                                            xioritizes pre-       pre-proposals from neighborhood
                                            roposals, in          association
                                            iccordance with
                                            ieighborhood
                                            kvelopment plan*
 4. Preparationo f     I)  Receivesadvice                         A) Preparesregistry o fqualified       :) Assists
 sub-project proposal, ?om PCUabout                               supplierso ftechnical assistance       irganization to
 including contracting ypes and suppliers                         B) Selectspriority pre-proposals       irepare detailed
 o ftechnical          )ftechnical                                to receive technical assistance        ub-project
 assistance            issistance                                 C) Suggeststype o ftechnical           iroposal
                       Z ) Selects supplier                       assistancethat would help
                       vith assistancefron                        community organizationto
                       'CU                                        prepare its sub-project
                                                                  F) Contracts technicalassistance
                                                                  provider onbehalfof community
                                                                  organization
 5, Approval o f sub-  \) Reviewsand        E) Receives           C) Receivesandevaluatessub-                             D) Receives
 projects              ipproves sub-projec  :valuation of sub-    project proposals (technical,                           xoposals and
                       xoposal; identifies  xojects and identifies financial, environmental, and                          -eviews from
                       :ounterpart          Ipportunities for      legal reviews); sends proposals                        PCU; final
                       :ontribution and     integratedaction;      andreviewsto PCU                                       approval o f sub-
                       )lanfor operations   selects persons                                                               projects; notifies
                       mdmaintenance(if Oesponsiblefor                                                                    zommunity
                       tppropriate)         nonitoring sub-                                                               organizations
                       3) Sends approved    irojects                                                                      &boutresults and
L                      )roposalto PCU                                                                                     can request
                                                                                                                          clarifications or
                                                                                                                          conditions
 6. Adjustments        B) Paaicipates in                            A) Requestsadditionalinformation     B) Helps
 (applicable only      improvemento f                               from entity that helpedto preparethe community
 when sub-projects     proposal or                                  proposal                             organization to
 are approved with     provisiono f                                 C) Verifies that the revisedproposal adjust its
 conditions or when    additional                                   respondsto the PCU's request and     proposal
 mitigatingmeasures    information                                  returns to step 5A
NB:Thelettersines
 are re uired
                        step indicatethe    der in which activit s occur within that step




                                                                 -41  -

Environmental management plan: impact-scoping for this component identified a long list of positive
effects and a short list of risks concerning sewerage and water supply, solid waste management and
drainage. The EMP for this component requires: a) preparation of an environmental profile for each
low-income neighborhood to identi@ potential environmental issues and areas o f risk; b) formulation of an
environmental checklist for each neighborhood that will be completed as part o f sub-project preparation in
that neighborhood (the EMP includes a model checklist); c) review and approval of the checklist and any
mitigation measures by the PAC; and d) monitoringo f sub-project implementation to ensure that mitigation
measures are followed and are effective.

Over one-third o f the poor residents of Macapb and Santana live in environmentally-sensitive wetlands
known as ressacas which contain biodiversity and provide environmental services such as drainage and
wind corridors. A diagnostic of a representative sample of these wetlands was conducted in 2003. The
project will finance the demarcation and participatory zoning o f ressacas in these two cities, as well as
environmental education inaffected communities. Sub-projectswill only be financed in wetlands that have
been zoned. In these areas, preference will be given to sub-projects that protect and/or improve
environmental quality. These include: maintenance o f drainage canals; small-scale sewage treatment and
water supply systems; investments to facilitate solid waste management; fish farming with native species;
beekeeping; tree propagation and planting for food production andor recovery of gallery forests; and
ecotourism (facilities for observing birdand other wildlife).

Project Component 2 US$1.02 million
                       -
InstitutionalStrendheningfor PovertvReduction

This component will build the capacity of the state to address key issues of poverty and development by
supporting a specific reform of the state micro-credit provider and a general reform of the state
administrative apparatus.    Specific sub-components will assist the state-owned AFAP to improve the
supply of sustainable formal financial services to microenterprises in the State of Amapb. These
sub-componentswill address the lack of access of the poor to financial services, an important constraint to
productivity and income generation and improved livelihood. This assistance would buildon four years of
experience in the implementation o f a micro-credit operation (AMASOL) financed by the Government of
Amapb. A final sub-component will provide overall assistance to reform and modernize the state
administration inorder to promote economic development with socialjustice.

The micro-credit-related sub-componentswill buildcapacity o f the state micro-credit program, test specific
financing mechanisms for economically productive rural activities and prepare it for a follow-on project
that could provide capital to finance micro-credit through the AMASOL program. The sub-components
will be implemented by N A P with supervision by the PCU. Planning, capacity building and technical
assistance inurban areas will be implemented by AFAP with help fiom external consultants contracted by
the PCU. The rural credit line will also be implemented by AFAP with consultant support though technical
assistance that could be providedby private contractors.

The component will initially involve strengthening and expanding AFAP's capacity by: a) financing a
development strategy and business plan with the objective to improve AMASOL's operations and make
them financially self- sustainable; b) increasing loan officer productivity by providing adequate training,
management information system, technological and product innovations; c) developing and implementing a
marketing and outreach program and provide training; d) implementing an appropriate variable
remuneration system for staff basedonproductivity and portfolio quality indicators; e) improving practices


                                                   -42-

regarding client retention and client generation; f, expand capacity buildingto the poorest areas inMacapB
and Santana to qualifL them for accessing microcredit products; and g) improving the monitoring and
evaluation system to verify and ensure that resources are effectively used to create employment and
increasefamily income.

`YMASOL" -AFAP Microcredit Program

AAer the liquidation of the state bank, Banco do Estado do AmaprE (BANAP), the state government
decided to create AFAP in 1998 with an initial capital of R$ 4,000,000, as a minimumrequirement by the
Central Bank for all financial institutions, with the objective to manage state programs and specific funds
and to set up a microcredit operation ("AMASOL").           AMASOL was designed to support small urban
microenterprises with loans of between R$50 and R$5000 charging an interest rate of 2.9% per month.
Other financial services include a Solidarity Credit Card ("Cartgo Solidhrio") which provides access to
shopping possibilitiesto clients that pay their credits on time.

The portfolio o f AFAP in June 2002 was R$ 7,917,130 with 2,367 active clients. By June, 2003, the
number o f active clients has increasedto 3,600. The average value for loans in2002 was R$ 2,189 which
decreased to R$1,458 (June 2003). This average includes larger loans as well as those granted by the
AMASOL program; thus, the average for micro-credit loans i s smaller.

The main loan instruments applied by AFAP are (a) "Crkdito SolidArio do AmapL" (AMASOL), small
loans with a limit o f R$5,000 to microenterprises (formal and informal); and (b) special credits to tourism
projects (Proatur), cooperatives and handicraft producers, basedon governmental provided hnds. The loan
limits are between R$ 5,000 and R$ 150,000. Recently, AFAP succeeded in negotiating with the State
Government the use o f a part o f governmental funds (program for handicrafts) for the AMASOL program,
which means that AMASOL will be able to increase its budget by an additional R$ 2,200,000 for its
2003/4 operations. Whereas the project will only concentrate on the AMASOL component, it needs to
consider the overall financial and operational situation of AFAP and its special credit lines, because the
administrative fees for managing the funds guaranteesfixedcosts coverage of AFAP.

AMASOL's microcredit operation has very simple requirements for the client to obtain financial support
for its business. AFAP only requires confirmation o f state residency from the client and some minimum
registration procedures. AFAP requires a 130% coverage o f the credit (collateral), which can be provided
either by a guarantor with fixed income, physical guaranteesor by being part o f a solidarity group.

In the AFAP portfolio, 90% of all clients come from the AMASOL program; however, AMASOL
represents only 43% of the credit volume. This i s due to the fact that the special credit lines have higher
credit limits than the AMASOL program. AFAP's current policy i s to gradually abandon some special
funds and credit lines and transfer the available financial capacity to the AMASOL program.

Information System

AFAP's mission is to promote sustainable development in the State of AmapB by providing access to
financial instruments for the poorest inthe State. As part of project preparation, an external evaluation o f
AFAP was prepared by the consulting firm DAI in late 2002 that positively evaluated the overall staff
qualifications, motivation and capacity for microcredit operations. Loan officers provide a rapid and solid
orientation to clients and have appropriate infrastructure at their disposal inMacapB, where more than 60%
o f Amapa's population i s located. Rapid expansion o f operations to other urban centers in the State
(Oiapoque, Laranjal de Jari and Santana) took place in late 2001 to early 2002. Due to an inefficient


                                                     - 4 3 -

centralized decision-making system, the operational costs of these loans were far too highto be financially
feasible.

As negative points, the evaluation noted that the administrative council rarely fulfilled its duty and that
AFAP operated largely on an informal basis with no operational manual until end of 2002. This fact was
perceived by the new management and several employment restructureswere undertaken in 2003. InApril
2003, an operational manual was prepared. AFAP staff are a mixture of experienced bankers and younger
staff that startedtheir careers working on microfinance.

Another challenge i s the political dependency of the institution. The president as well as the fiscal and
administrative councils are directly nominatedby the Governor.

Another negative impact of the 2002 political transition was the reported increase of new loan approvals
duringelection time, which createdliquidityproblems and, among other reasons, causeda financial loss of
R$990,000 inthe first semester of2003 (GIT consultores, Oct 2003).

So far, AFAP has beenunable to obtain relevant and up-to-date information on efficiency and profitability
on separate credit lines and adequate indicators, such as average portfolio-at-risk, loan loss rate and other
quality indicators. Technical reports on loan officer productivity and their portfolio were rarely issuedand
used. The informality o f operations ledto negative practices, such as renegotiation of loans at a very early
stage and without being basedon objective and formal criteria. Finally, AFAP's data base currently offers
information only on active clients and does not register declined requests for loans nor on former clients,
which prevents preparationof market trends analysis andother market-related information.

Inearly 2003, the new Government was concernedwith many ofthese issues and hadAFAP's operations
audited while providing an additional subsidy to the Agency to cover last year's losses. Consultants
suggestedby the Central Bank reviewedAFAP's reportingand operational practices. Concernswere issued
regarding its financial management system andprovisioning policy.

As a result o f the audit and the consultations with the Central Bank, AFAP has now formalized its
operations by elaborating an operational manual and i s preparing a more appropriate financial management
system which should be implemented and working before the effectiveness of the World Bank loan. The
new system will be able to provide all technical, financial and operational indicators needed to effectively
monitor AMASOL and the other financial instruments and provide adequate reports to the Brazilian
Central Bank.

Market:

According to a comprehensivemodel of Brazilian microenterprises, nearly 36,800 microenterprises operate
inh a p a (Nichter,Goldmarkand Fiori. "UnderstandingMicrofinanceinthe BrazilianContext." BNDES/ DAI Brasil,July2002). It
should be noted that microenterprises include both the formal sector (registered firms with fewer than five
employees) and the informal sector (urban informal microenterprises and small rural farms). The overall
number of microenterprises inAmapa is growing at a rate o f 6.6% per year, which would suggest that the
potential market for microfinance is also growing. Over 82% o f microenterprises (30,200) are part o f the
informal sector.

Potential demandcanbe calculated by multiplyingthe total number o f microenterprises inAmaph by the
percentageof microenterprisesthat i s assumedwould both demand and be eligible for microfinance
products. A discount factor of 50% is employed, matchingthe assumption made ina recent Consultative


                                                        - 44 -

Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP) study of microfinance industries inLatin America (Christen,
"Commercialization and Mission Drift: The Transformationof Microfinance in LatinAmerica," CGAP, 2001). Based on this
assumption, the size of the market for microfinance inAmapa is estimatedat 18,400 microenterprises.

In addition, a preliminary market analysis was prepared by DAIin late 2002 and GIT in October 2003
where the general demand structure, AFAP's products, their acceptance, competition, growth potentialand
market niches have been investigated. Amaph's financial institutions are focused on the formal market and
only for specific groups or sectors. Generally, services are only available at banks and some commercial
institutions for local merchants and civil servants for physical investments. Instruments that could provide
working capital are very limited. Interest rates for these kinds o f investmentsare between 2.9% and 3.1 per
month and around 9% monthly for account overdraws. The Banco do Brasil and Caixa EconGmica offer
some financial credit lines for SMEsbut only to formal businesses.

Most o f the poor population are immigrants from other states with little income, few skills and generally
without proper documentation or a stable address. The services o f the local banking system are very
conservative and do not respond to the needs of poor population that currently has little or no access to
financial services.

MAP has a good reputation among its clients and potential clients. Currently, no outreach program or
marketing activities are undertakenbut demandi s still increasing. There is no competition so far inthe state
o f h a p a for micro- finance activities, which makes AFAP a valuable instrument to provide these kindof
services to the urban and - eventually - rural poor. The project will further strengthen the focus on the
poorest population o f the State anddesign an outreach program concentrating on the identified sectors and
regions where poverty is located (see targeting data inAnnex 11). The project offer will be closely analyzed
to further satisfy the demand o f these clients. A definition o f the preferred client profile will be undertaken
to support outreach andproduct design strategy.

Current Portfolio

InNovember 2002 and October 2003, aportfolio analysis was undertakenby DAIand GIT, respectively,
to identify the portfolio-at-risk rate, renegotiation practices, loan loss rate, its profitability, growth rate and
provisioning policy among other indicators and policies. During the appraisal mission, a rough update of
the datawas preparedbyGITto be able to identifythe progressmade andmajorproblem areas.

It was concluded that MAP'S            portfolio-at-risk identification and its provisioning policy are inadequate.
The portfolio analysis is basedon a methodology that only considers the current outstanding payment rate,
instead of considering all outstanding rates at risk once one payment rate is outstanding. Furthermore,
renegotiated loans are not considered inthe portfolio-at-risk rate.

                                                      Portfolio-at-risk rate




                                                             - 45 -

During the appraisal mission, it was determined that overall active portfolio had increased from R$5.1
million to B 6 . 1 millionwith the number of active clients increasing to 3,600. This i s because, at the endof
last year, AFAP approved an exceptionally high number of new loans. AFAP has already taken first
important steps in2003 under its new administration to reduce new loans to a level that will notjeopardize
its liquidityand instructed several loanofficers to clean up their portfolio.

Portfolio-at-risk indicators are high. Evaluations o f the portfolio in June 2002, show that 32% o f all
remaining installments are at risk (at least one installment late for more than one day). Also this number
was reduced to 27% (as of June 2003), the situation remains critical. Duringthe appraisal mission, it was
not possible to identify the exact rate of renegotiated loans, but it was estimated that when excluding the
renegotiated loans, the portfolio-at-risk of installments that are outstanding for more than 30 days, would
drop to 16.4%. The average rate o f portfolio-at-risk (30 days) in Latin America is 4.6% and 6.4% in
Brazil.

The main reasons for the portfolio-at-risk rate are, according to DAI and GIT, an inappropriate charging
system, lack o f management information, lack of consequences for loan officers when their productivity
falls, renegotiation practices, monitoring practices with clients and an inappropriate portfolio-at-risk
measurement methodology, that kept the problems hidden. The new administration team recognized these
issues and is already taking several steps to mitigate problems.

Profitability

A profitability analysis demonstrated that AFAP's operational costs are increasing in relation to the
revenues. DAI stated that there i s a disproportional increase o f variable costs (travel, per diems) and a
disproportional increase in administration costs for new loans outside the urban center of MacapL.
Liquiditywas also decreasing rapidly. Thus, the profitability of the portfolio is not sufficient to cover the
current administration costs. Subsidies from the State Government were necessary to cover operational
costs during the last two years. An adjusted balance has been prepared, which considers values for
subsidies, and provisions for clients-at-risk using a methodology which gives a higher value to the
portfolio-at-risk for provisioning purposes. The result showed a loss of R$1.2 million in2002 and a loss of
almost 1million inthe first semester of 2003.

The DAI and the preliminary GIT-analysis concluded that the AMSOL interest rate o f 2.9% is currently
not sufficient to cover operational costs, if administration costs and other issues such as monitoring,
centralization of decision taking and other policies stayeduntouched. The currently prepared business plan
and development plan to be prepared at the beginning of the project will demonstrate if self-sustainability
can be achieved by cost reduction, more efficient portfolio managementand decentralization activities or if
the interest rate will have to be increasedto achieve this goal. Possible impacts o f an increaseinthe interest
rate on the demand structure will be analyzed.




                                                     - 46 -

Indicators




/(Operational expenses - provisions /  I                          I                         I                  I
mediumportfolio)                                  25%                       49%                      104%
Financial Self sufficiency                        98%                       97%                      119%
 Adjusted Self sufficiency
 (provisioning, risk rating altered)              37%                        NA                       NA

The indicators show that the overall portfolio is growing rapidly, implying the need for further funding to
be able to finance the growth in demand. At the same time, the financial indicators for financial
applications are declining because capital has been used for portfolio expansion and not for financial
reserves and because of high overheads. Although, preliminary date from June 2003 indicate that the
protfolio-at-risk has dropped from 32 to 27%, it i s still very high. The provision practice in 2002 (3%) is
well below the recommended value (15 - 20%). GOT has indicated that this amount has increasedlately to
7% (June 2003). Monthly revenues are low which reflects the low rate of interest rate that is charged to the
clients. Efficiency, or the costs for providing loans, is increasing, which shows that economy of scale
should be able to improve AFAP's efficiency rate. Productivity of loan agents is below the Latin American
average. The averageremuneration of loan agents i s around the LatinAmerican average.

The return on investment i s negative with a negative tendency, clearly demonstrating that current revenues
are too low to cover operational costs. Financial self-sufficiency shows a positive trend, but if a different
provisioning methodology i s applied and subsidies are accounted for, the self-sufficiency rate i s below
40%.

Overall assessment during appraisal mission

The current portfolio-at-risk i s high with 16.4% o f the portfolio was considered at risk (not including
renegotiated loans). In the case o f CrediAmigo, portfolio-at-risk is defined as daily average of
portfolio-at-risk 30 days (write-off policy 360 days) during the last three months. 8% i s the highest
acceptable rate for continuing disbursement. This definition will apply as well for the microcredit program
in Amapb, which means that M S O L will need to reach this level at the end of the project after 2-3
years, before a possible secondphase will be able to provide a loan for capitalizationpurpose. Along with
the renegotiation practices and the current high fixed costs, the portfolio-at-risk represents the major risk
for the success of the microcredit component. It is estimated that to clean up the portfolio, it will take



                                                   -47-

AFAP at least two years. Adequate assistance, guidanceandtraining will be essentialto achievethis goal.

The new administration team of AFAP endorsed that improving their portfolio indicators i s the highest
priority and has already taken essential steps to improve this situation: (i)   a new financial management
system is being installed to improve the quality of information. The system should be completely installed
by December 2003 and should provide all required information and performance indicators for AMASOL
and all other AFAP operations; (ii) operational manual, which very clearly defines operational practices
                                       an
and the institutional arrangement, has been concluded; (iii)  a group o f consultants was hired to work on a
development proposal which shouldbe delivered bythe businessand development planto be discussedwith
all stakeholders. It i s foreseen that the business plan will supply the necessary information to define and
implement an action planto be financed by this project; and (iv) some concrete measures were undertaken
to improve the quality of the portfolio, such as the focus on clients with good track records, reduction of
other loans outside the AMASOL program (mainly MAP-empresarial) which will permit a further
upgrade o f the microcredit program, reduction o f periods and loan size o f operations to further adjust the
products to the real financial needs of the clients, a more effective monitoring system and some capacity
buildingactivities for staffand agents.

Furthermore, it has been agreedthat decentralizedlendingoperations will be implemented and all measures
will be undertaken to reduce renegotiation practices to reach indicators below a level of 0.5% inrelationto
the overall portfolio. Loan officers with low productivity and low quality indicators are now only
concentrating on the recovery of their loan performance and new loan emissions have been reduced to a
manageable level. The Governor has declared that he would support all measures to make the institution
financially self-sustainable.

RiskAnalysis and Compliancewith OP8.30

OP8.30 says that financial institutions supported by the World Bank must have adequate profitability
indicators, acceptable levels of loan collection rates and appropriate capacity in place. Although AFAP's
profitability and loan collection indicators do not correspond with the requirements, evaluations
demonstrate that the program can improve their indicators to the desired level if some o f their old
operational practices are changed. As indicated, AFAP i s currently addressing this situation. Further
corrections inaccordance with the results andrecommendations of the business and development plan will
have to be followed before disbursementfor the capital stock increase(sub-component 3.3) will occur.

OP8.30 says that WB funds, which couldbe providedthrough a follow-on project, should be priced
in order to guarantee competitiveness with what the participating financial institution and their
sub-borrowers would pay in the market for similar money. That means that the WB funds should be
accounted as if they were borrowed from a national bank at the transfer rate (currently 20% per year in
Brazil). The financial institution should be profitable even after accounting for the transfer prices and
subsidies. Evaluations demonstratethat AFAP is currently not complying with this requirement. Under the
current situation, it is not clear if AFAP will reach this objective at all, unless interest rates for subloans
are increased. Moreover, AFAP will only be able to reach this goal only if new Bank-provided funds are
considered as "borrowed" in the accounting system and not the formerly provided funds by the State. The
business plan will provide further indications as to when the project will be self-sustainable including
accounting for subsidies andfunds priced at transfer rates.

Effectiveness Conditions and Project Implementation

The project will finance preparation of a business plan with the objective o f clearly identifying the steps to


                                                     -48-

make the micro-credit operation feasible in accordance with financial self-sustainability `objectives and
portfolio quality indicators. This business plan i s currently being implemented by a group of consultants.
AFAP will be assisted in all capacity building efforts, adjustments to current lending practices, overall
management and outreach strategies as described below in the sub-component 3.3. Progress will be
constantly evaluated. If NAP'Sperformance indicators do not improve by the first mid-term review and
the agreed action plan is not being implemented, a decision will be made whether the project should
continue with the capacity buildingactivities. At the latest, duringthe first project mid-termreview, AFAP
will have to demonstrate progress made inperformance and financial indicators; Activities finance under
this first phase are focussing on general capacity building o f AFAP staff, knowledge management and
capacity buildingactivities inthe poorest urban and rural regions. Therefore, the project activities are not
being considered a distortion o f capital markets because it will build capacity and will learn lessons for
microfinanceoperations inthe Amazon.

The business plan will spell out what kind of measures need to be taken to reach profitability targets
(training, interest rate, cost reduction, etc.). If indicators are positive and the AMASOL program reaches
self-sustainability after the first phase, it is planned to increase capital stock in the second phase. As
indicated, evaluations demonstrate that it will be impossible for AFAP to be able to appropriately account
for all subsidies and transfer prices at the beginning of the project and show a profit. Realistically, AFAP
will probably not be able to correspondto the profitability requirement within the next two years. Eventual
capital stock increaseswill have to financed from the nationalcapital market. Some financial resources are
foreseen to test and learn from specific operations in the very poorest areas and to implement and test an
innovative rural approach.

The following sub-componentswill be financed:

A. Elaborationofa Development Strategy(Business Plan)

Consultants will be hiredto undertake a development strategy and a businessplan, which will demonstrate
how AFAP and its AMASOL programcan achieve its goals, how to permit an expansion o f the AMASOL
program and how to overcome the identified constraints and problems. The expected output o f the
consultancy are to: (a) elaborate a complete business plan and development strategy including a sensitivity
analysis; (b) prepare a market study with the overall objective to reach the urban poor; (c) fine-tune the
newly implemented financial management system to be able to generate the required financial indicators;
(d) improve the internal data-base; (e) prepare a detailed proposal for capacity building and outreach
strategies; and (0 adjust the operational manual to the findings o f the business plan andthe requirements o f
the project. The consultancy will result in an expansion and investment plan with short and medium-term
objectives and activities. This business plan will supply the basis for an effective disbursement plan. The
success o f the AMASOL program and its envisaged expansion to other urban areas with high poverty
indicators and some pilot rural areas will be measuredusingagreedperformance indicators.

Ingeneral terms, the development strategy and the business plan will have to respect followingprinciples
and indicators, as agreedwith AFAP:

a) the interest rate applicable for any subloans shall be sufficient at least to generate a profit for the
micro-credit program AMASOL after considering all implicit subsidies the program received or will
receive;
b) on the long run, transfer price of funds to the micro-credit program should equal the reference rate of
CDI (Certificaqb de Depbsito Interbancaria);
c) portfolio quality indicators should be kept below certain levels (otherwise capital stock increase will not


                                                        -49-

be authorized and/or disbursementswill be stopped):
         i)dailyaverageofportfolio-at-risk30days(write-offpolicy360days)duringthelastthreemonths
         should be kept below 8%; and
         ii)loanlossrate:netincreaserelativetothelastdayofthelast 12monthdividedbythedaily
         average loanportfolio. This indicator should be below 4%.
d) provisioningfor loan lossesaccording to CentralBankpoliciesandprocedures;
e) improved accounting system and financial management system able to generate necessary financial and
operational indicators ;
f) establishment of independentprofit centersofbranches;
g) variable remuneration systemsfor staff;
h)technical assistance mustbeindependentfrom micro-credit operations; and
i)renegotiatedloansmustbeaccountedseparately.

Specific performance indicators regarding portfolio quality and the expansion plans (rural and urban) will
still be fine-tuned by the business plan, but it is expected that the monitoring system will track the
following:

0    portfolio quality (mentioned above);
0    average loan size of active clients , new clients and renewed loans to clients (current loan size i s
     between R$ 50 and R$ 5000 but could be defined more precisely in accordance to the feasibility and
     sustainability findingsinthe businessplan);
     number o f active clients. Preliminary estimates indicate a possible increase from 4,000 clients still in
     2003 to 5,000 in2004, 6,500 in2005, 8,000 in2006 andup to 10,000 active clients in2007;
0    number of branches(4 new branches installeduntil 2005, another 2 installedby 2006);
     number o fclients per loan officers (250 clients, currently 280);
0    administrative costslaverage loanportfolio; and
0    indicators about the dispersion inperformance across loan officers and branches.


B. Strengthening Capacity for SustainableGrowth ofAMASOL

This component will be implemented by the AMASOL Technical Unit working with the appropriate units
of AFAP and outside agencies (Central Bank, SEMA, PCU) as relevant. Consultants will be hired by the
PCU. All activities under this component will be further guided by the business plan and the resulting
developmentplan.

a) Constant Capacity building and monitoring of the implementation of the development plan: The
effective control of the current portfolio requires the strengthening o f the technical capacity of MAP,
including the improvement of the charging methodology, reporting system and supervision of ongoing
loans. Priority will be given to strengthen the management capacity of the new administration team to be
able to deal with the improvement of the overall portfolio management and the expansion plans of the
agency. Management practices will be constantly monitored and reviewed duringthe implementation. The
initial capacity building component will support the most urgent actions identified by the business plan.
AFAP staff will receive training through study tours and participation in conferences focused on
institutional development o f commercial micro-finance institutions. A group o f consultants will be hiredto
permanently follow up and monitor the development action plan and the principles agreed in the business
plan. The group of consultants will promote ad-hoc capacity building seminars in AmapB, train the
administration and loan officers and orient staff on how to improve their efficiency and overall
administration


                                                     - 50 -

As a result, AFAP management will have implemented the institutional structure recommended by the
business plan, management staff will be trained on best practices, and AFAP should be able to publish
annual statements of program results based on external due diligence reviews, portfolio and quality
indicators, which assess the programinterms of its viability as an independent financial institution. AFAP
will have implementeda variable remunerationsystemfor loan officers, improved internalinformationflow
and improved its external communication strategy emphasizing on portfolio quality and renegotiation
practices.

b) Loan OfJicer Productivity: Consultantswill be hiredto assist AFAP in development of mechanisms to
enhance loan officer productivity in terms of gaining new clients and management of larger numbers of
active clients, including handling an improved charging system, monitoring activities and reporting system.
As a result o f this subcomponent, AFAP will have implemented a more effective variable remuneration
system, loan officers will be trained inmore efficient client retention, and a more effective charging system
andmonitoring systemwill beimplemented.

Training of state agents to assist AFAP in building capacity in poor neighborhoods: According to the
project objectives, AMASOL will increasingly have to reach out to the poorest areas o f the State of Amaph
with adequate products. It has been identified that some of the potential clients are not yet prepared to
access the products offered by AFAP. Appraisal mission showed that there is potential within state
institutions to act as muliplicators and trainers to further buildcapacity inthese poor areas to help them to
identify their needs and demand and to train them inhow to administer small-scale businesses. Consultants
will be hired to train these state agents to further implement these capacity building activities over the
years.

c) Marketing: Consultants will be hiredto assist AFAP to develop promotional and marketing strategiesfor
the AMASOL program and products. Technical unit and branch staff will be trained to implement the
strategies which are adopted. As a result of the component, AMASOL will have developed and
implemented a new marketing strategy for the overall program, including new financial products (savings,
products that address more specifically the urban poor, etc.), specific markets and specific products and
branch staff trained accordingly. The new marketing plan will have to focus on the overall strategy o f the
project to reduce poverty.

Part of the marketing consulting and the constant support program to AFAP, it is foreseen that AFAP will
be assisted in the identification of mechanisms which will provide a cost-effective outreach to clients in
lower-density areas and new unexplored areas within MacapA and Santanaand other smaller urban centers
inAmaph. Basedonthe businessplanandthe geographical outreachplan, equipment will bepurchasedto
pilot the technology and staffwill be trained. As a result o f the component, AMASOL will have feasibility
studies and pilot evaluations o f several outreach technologies, including financial projections, legal and
regulatory requirement and stafftraining and support needs.

New Financial Products: Consultants will be hired to assist AFAP in the identification and design o f new
loan and savings products with the objective to amplify their set o f products to reach micro-finance
operations, instead o f only micro-credit operations. This study will include as well a diversification o f pilot
products for the rural outreach. The consultants will assist AMASOL inthe design o f product design and
testing and development and evaluation ofpilots. As a result o fthis activity, AMASOL will have feasibility
studies and pilot evaluations o f several loan and new financial products, including financial projections and
stafftraining needs.



                                                      - 51 -

 Over time, AMASOL will have the opportunity to expand its service offerings, enabling the organization to
 meet the evolving needs of local microentrepreneurs. This expansion would also be likely to yield
 numerous economic advantages, such as higher revenues per client, a reduction in client acquisition costs
 (as a percentageo f total revenues), and improvedloan delinquency rates (from clients with provenpayment
 histories and access to risk management products such as insurance). The table below shows the main
 types o f microfinance products offered today in the international context.          Brazilian microfinance
 institutions offer those products markedwith an asterisk. Government regulations explicitly prohibit most
 players inthe local microfinance industry from offering many of the products listedbelow.

                 Product Category                                Examplesof Products
I             Traditional microcredit                0      Working capital*                          I
                                                     0      Investment capital*
                                                     0      Agricultural loans*
                                                     0       Troca de cheaue*
                Other types o f credit              0       Educational loans
                                                    0       Consumer credit **
                                                    0       Pawnlending
                       Savings                      0       Obligatory savings
                                                    0       Voluntary savings
                                                    0       Fixed-termdeposits
                      Insurance                     0        Credit
                                                    0       Life
                                                    0       Health
                                                    0       Property
                   Other services                    0      Payments
                                                     0      Transfers
                                                     0       Currency exchange

 *Currently offeredby MFIs inBrazil.
 **One program in Fortaleza, operated within a community association, offers a community credit card to
 support purchasesfrom local stores.
 Source: Nichter, Goldmark and Fiori. "Understanding Microfinance inthe Brazilian Context." BNDES /
 DAIB r a d
 (July 2002).

 d) Rural Outreach Strategy and Feasibility Studies: For rural areas, the sub-component will finance the
 design and testing of a special credit line. This will be based on the lessons learned duringtwo decades o f
 experience with rural lending through the defunct h a p i State Bank and the Amazon Bank, the Central
 Bank's guidance on rural credit and experienceso f the RFPP inthe State o f Amapi. Credit line design will
 need to take into consideration: a history of paternalism between the state and the rural producer; limited
 ability to provide technical assistance; transportation and communications difficulties; highcosts relatedto
 the productive cycle; and challenges regarding monitoring and supervision. The design should include:
 development o f a registration system, an approach for providing technical assistance, a proposal for the
 loan guarantee mechanism, criteria for establishing the eligibility o f rural proposals, and the terms and
 conditions for loan repayment and default. Once designed, the rural credit line will be tested, monitored and
 evaluated in some pilot areas. First evaluations show that the pilot should consider a productive sector
 approach.



                                                      - 52 -

Investmentsbasedon extractivism traditionally show a quick return on investment, including the collection
o f Brazil nuts, seasonal shrimp harvesting, and collectiodprocessing o f Agai and wild cacao fruits.
Handicraft productionmightbe another potential opportunity to test in areas with seasonalproduction and
organized associations. Seasonal extractivists lack capital to prefinance equipment and transport costs for
their products. Another characteristic i s the quick return of investment (max. two months), which represent
an outstanding opportunity for microcredit operations. The highest probability of success would be loans to
individuals inorganized groups. An evaluation will show what regions should be prioritized, which mostly
will dependon the number of interestedproducersorganizedinanassociation.

e) Environmental Management: impact-scoping concluded that past investments financed by the
AMASOL program of AFAP did not create significant negative environmental impacts. However, there is
a risk that even small-scale activities can create environmental risks and that a monitoring and control
system was justified. In the case of Amaph, several microentrepreneurs depend on economic activities
based on natural products, where the they will have to demonstrate the source of its raw-materials and in
case of potential negative impact, will have to prove mitigation strategies and/or management plans. EMP
for this component requires that: a) each request for financing include relevant environmental information
(e.g., source o f raw-materials, distance of activity from nearest watercourse, hygienic conditions for
workers, anticipated use o f any toxic or hazardous materials, possible emissions o f solid, liquid or gaseous
wastes, etc.); Inthe case of b) where possible risks are detected, the financing proposal will be re-designed
to avoid negative impacts; and c) the at-risk proposal will apply for and receive any necessary
environmental license prior to receiving financing. Inaddition, incentives will be contemplated to encourage
proposals that are environmentally sustainable (e.g., recycling) and/or that promote environmental
rehabilitation (e.g., seedling nurseries). As a result of this component, loan officers will be trained to
understandpossible environmental impacts, orient their clients on mitigation practices, indicate available
technical assistant, orient on legal situation and monitor their clients' activities on environmentalimpacts.

C. InstitutionalDevelopment

Consultants will be hired to undertake legal and regulatory studies, develop public reporting mechanisms
and carry-out annual due diligence review. AMASOL staff will also receive training through study tours
and participation in conferences focused on institutional development o f commercial microfinance
institutions. As a result o f the component, AMASOL will be able to establish institutional structures
consistent with increasing the managerial, financial and legal independence o f AMASOL, and publish
annual statements of program results based on extemal due diligence reviews which assess the program in
terms o f its viability as an independent financial institutions. Program results and on-going lessons learned
will be disseminatedthrough seminarsandpublications.

D.Public Administration Strenghtening

The objective o fthe final sub-component is to improve public administration inproject-related sectors to
make the goverment more effective interms of economic development and social fairness. This sub-project
will finance studies, diagnostics, action plans, and consensus-building workshops.


Project Component 3 US$2.55 million
                        -
RuralCommunitvDevelopment Sub-Proiects

The project will provide grants for sub-projects that are identified and developed by community


                                                      - 5 3 -

associationsandprioritizedby Municipal Development Fora(MDF) that have already beencreatedinall o f
Amapi's municipalities (except the primarily urban municipalities o f Macapi and Santana). For an
association to qualify for funding, the municipality where it is located must submit a local sustainable
development plan that has been prepared in a participatory manner and which briefly sets out the
community's vision of key poverty/environment issues, options and objectives. All fourteen municipalities
with MDFs had prepared their plans by the end of 2002. Associations will normally receive the finds for
implementing their sub-projects and thus will be responsible for sub-project management, financial control
and accounting.

This component consistso fthe following sub-components:

         A.      Socio-environmental sub-projects (design, selection, financing, implementation)
         B.      Productive sub-projects (design, selection, financing, implementation)
         C.      Studies for rural areas (includes regularization of quilombos)
         D.      Capacity-buildingfor Municipal Development Fora and rural associations
         E.      Technical assistance for sub-projects
         F.      Integratedplanningandenvironmental management

The component will reserve 10% of sub-project financial resources for a special set o f beneficiaries:
indigenous people, Afro-Brazilians (quilombolas), and poor women and adolescents. Special,
culturally-appropriate procedures have been designed for sub-project design and approval for indigenous
groups and quilombolas; these are described in greater detail in Annex 13 which summarizes the Special
Groups Inclusion Strategy and inthe flowchart below. The PCUwill undertake a variety o f measures, also
identified in the Strategy, to promote greater involvement of poor women and youths as sub-project
beneficiaries. The component will also support an initiative to promote the regularization o f quilombo
lands inthe state, basedon the successful experienceo f the Curiaucommunity

Two types o f sub-projects will be financed environmental and social infrastructure, and support for
environmentally-sustainable productive investments. Examples of environmental and social infrastructure
include: drinking water supply, primary health care posts, maintenance and clearance o f rural paths and
lanes, clearing o f igarapk waterways, community centers, day-care centers, family schools, libraries, sport
and recreation centers, rural electricity generation and distribution, rural telecommunications systems, and
construction of small bridges. For planning purposes, the project would finance 15 such projects with an
average value of R$75,000 (US$25,000). Examples o f environmentally-sustainable productive investments
include: agroforestry systems, sustainable forest management, agricultural equipment to improve soil
quality, community-based manioc flour processing units, small-scale grain silos, processing facilities for
fruit pulp, seedling nurseries, beekeeping, sustainable fisheries practices, fish meal production, ice-making
(for artisanal fisheries), aquaculture, textile production, studies to design community natural resource
management systems, training for producers and entrepreneurs, and improved local transportation and
marketing systems. For planning purposes, the project would finance 15 such projects with an average
value o f R$100,000 (US$33,333).

These are preliminary lists that are based on initial surveys o f community demand conducted by ADAP.
This component will be driven by community demand and the project is free to finance other activities not
listedhere that are consistent with project objectives. Grant finds would also cover any necessarytechnical
assistance for sub-project design, training and environmental studies and environmental impact mitigation
related to sub-project execution. A more detailed description o f the process for preparing and approving
sub-projects for standard rural communities, i s provided in the flow charts below. The process for
indigenous and quilombo areas i s described inthe flowchart inAnnex 13.


                                                     - 54 -

Some o f the anticipated sub-projects are subject to standardization, e.g., unit costs can be estimated for
constructing a square meter of a school, day-care center or health post, a linear meter o f a bridge or a
manioc flour facility with an output of X tons per month. During project preparation, a set of
"standardized" sub-project dossiers were designedto assist communities that might propose these types of
activities as their priorities. These dossiers include recommended design parameters, estimated unit costs,
potential environmental impacts, and 'mitigation measures to be followed. Communities that identify
priority sub-projects that do not fit within this category can obtain technical assistance for sub-project
design. They will be free to choose the provider of technical assistance, e.g., from a government agency, an
academic institution, an NGO or a private firm, and the project will finance this assistance based on an
average estimate of 10% o f total sub-project costs. Technical assistance financing o f up to 20% of
sub-project costs could be approved by the PCU if special circumstances merit a higher investment in
design.

The component will not finance certain activities that have been deemedto be environmentally and socially
destructive. On an ecosystembasis, these include:

I                      Ecosvstem                        I                 Prohibited Activitv
Tropical Forest                                              Extractionandprocessing o f wood without a
                                                             managementplan
                                                             Extraction o f other natural resourceswith
                                                             irreversible environmental impacts
                                                             Uncontrolleduse of fire
                                                             Clearingand planting o f agricultural landthat
                                                             results indeforestation
Savannah(cerrudo)                                            Expansion o f industrial and semi-industrial
                                                             monocropping
                                                             Expansion o f monocroppingthat requires
                                                             clearing of >3 ha o f nativevegetation
                                                          0  Uncontrolleduse o f fire
Coastal and floodplain (vhzea)                            0  Unsustainable industrial-scale fishing
                                                          0  High-impact, unmanaged extractiono f other
                                                             naturalresources
                                                             Fishfarming with exotic species, e.g. tilapia


More generally, on environmental grounds the project will not finance activities in strict environmental
protection areas, trade in endangered species o f flora and fauna, and mining. On social grounds, generally
prohibited sub-projects include: purchase of land; investments associated with the production o f alcoholic
beverages, tobacco and weapons; construction o f churches o f any denomination; construction o f
government administrative buildings; and projects that benefit only one individualor family.

To guarantee and facilitate the availability o f quality technical assistance, the PCU will prepare minimum
criteria that should be met by government agencies, non-govenunental organizations, private firms, and
individualconsultantsinorder to providetechnical assistance. The PCUcouldalso maintainanegative list
o f entities that should not be contracted to provide assistancebecause they have not succeededinsatisfying
the minimum crtieria.       Technical assistance would be available to: i)help communities to prepare
pre-proposals; ii)prepare engineering designs for sub-projects; iii)prepare natural resource surveys and



                                                     - 55 -

management plans; iv) formulate business plans; v) assist communities with the preparation of
implementation and maintenance plans; vi) prepare technical reports to assist the PCU to evaluate
sub-project proposals; vii) provide technical assistance to community enterprises during implementation;
viii) undertake construction and serviceprovision; andix) preparecourses and course material for training
and capacity building. The PCU would be responsible for maintaining the register, including performance
evaluation o f the registered entities. However, the choice o f a technical assistance provider for project
design would be made by the community itself.

The following should be met to obtain financing for an environmental or social sub-project:

0    prioritization o f the sub-project pre-proposal by the appropriate Municipal Development Forum in a
     manner that is consistentwith the municipality's vision of sustainable local development;
0    a completed sub-project proposal (either prepared by the community or its consultants, or based on a
     standardized dossier) that has been discussed and approved by a legally-constituted community
     association;
0    presentation o f a maintenanceplan that commits the community to operate andmaintainthe sub-project
     or, inthe case of a public service, identifies maintenance costs and the agency that will be responsible
     for them; and
0    identification o f the procedures that the community will use to accompany sub-project implementation,
     including provision o f their 10%counterpart contribution which can be cash or in-kind(e.g., labor and
     raw materials).

The following should be met to obtain financing for environmentally-sustainable productive investments:

0    approval o f the financing request by a legally constituted producers' association ina general assembly
     meetingwith the decision registeredinwritten minutes ofthe meeting;
0    similar approval of the sub-project proposal, following any necessary engineering and economic
     evaluations;
0    preparation of a maintenance plan, including a list o f responsible partners, and a business plan that
     includes information on the quantity of natural resourcesrequiredand/or the quantity and frequency of
     harvesting;
0    for training proposals, there should be a list of producers interested inparticipating inthe course and a
     proposal for evaluating the utility of the course for the participants andthe community;
0    all sub-projects that involve food production or processing for human consumption must be reviewed
     by the appropriate state public healthauthority before final approval; and
0    all sub-projects with environmental impacts, as identified by the Project Council (PC), should include
     appropriate mitigation measures.

The first step for implementing this component will be the identification o f priority rural areas within the
state based on the incidence of poverty and the number of people living in poverty. Then, a dissemination
campaign needs to be prepared and implemented by ADAP in order to inform the public, especially in
priority areas, about the objectives and procedures for accessing support from the component. This would
include a mobile unit that would function as a "one-stop shop" to assist communities and rural producers
with the establishment o f legal associations. Next, Municipal Development Fora, especially those that
include priority areas, need to establish their priorities. Several have already done so through the
preparation of local sustainabledevelopment plans.

Once these steps have been concluded, the following procedure would be followed to solicit and approve
sub-projects:


                                                      - 56 -

1. Provisionoffinancial supportandassistanceto communities to prepareapre-proposal.
2. Prioritization ofpre-proposal by the appropriateMunicipal Development Forum.
3. Sub-project preparation by a registered and prequalified entity including, where appropriate,
  engineering designs or businessplans.
4. Discussionand approval of the sub-project proposal by the beneficiary community, including plans for
   community involvementinsub-projectimplementationandmaintenance.
5. Final project approval by the PAC, with a copy of the approved sub-project being sent to the MDF for
   information.
6. Financing o f the sub-project, including arranging the convenio to transfer funds to the implementing
   association andcontracting of any additional technical assistance needed.




                                                  - 57 -

                              Flowchart for PreDarinP and ADDrovinP Rural Sub-Droiects

     StageIActor            Communityor          MunicipalDevelopment                   PCU                  ServiceProvider             PC
                              Producers'                 Forum
                              Association
 1. Dissemination o f   E) Mobilizedthrough      D) Meetsto receive          A) Defines priority areas;  C) Contractedto        B) Consultedabout
 project and            field visits and        informationabout the         preparesandimplements       prepare and distribute the component and
 mobilization o f       informationprovided     project and participates in dissemination plan           disseminationmaterial  its dissemination
 target groups          through various media   dissemination at                                                                strategy
                                                community level
 2. Preparationofpre A) Membershipmeets         B)Canprovide assistance A) Assists associationsin
 proposal              to identify key problems with completing the pre-    priority areas with meetings
                       mdsolutions, select an proposal form                 and preparation ofpre-
                       approachandfillout the                               proposals
                       pre-proposal form
 3. Prioritization                             A) Receivesand              B) Receivesprioritizedlist
                                               prioritizes pre-proposals,  ofpre-proposals from
                                                inaccordancewith local     Municipal Development
                                               sustainabledevelopment      Forum


 4. Preparation o f    D) Receivesadvice                                   A) Preparesregistry of        ?) Assists association
 sub-project proposal, from PCUabout types                                  qualified suppliers o f      o prepare detailedsub-
 includingcontracting andsuppliers of                                      technical assistance          xoject proposal
 o ftechnical          technical assistance                                 B) Selectspriority pre-
 assistance            E) Selectssupplier with                             proposals to receive
                       assistance from PCU                                 technical assistance
                                                                           C) Suggeststype o f
                                                                           technical assistance that
                                                                            would helpthe association
                                                                            to prepare its sub-project
                                                                            F) Contracts technical
                                                                           assistanceprovideronbeha
                                                                            of association
 5. Approval of sub-   A) Reviews and          E) Receivesevaluationo f C) Receivesandevaluates                                  D) Receives
 projects              3pproves sub-project     sub-projects andidentifies sub-project proposals                                proposals and
                       oroposal; identifies     opportunities for          :technical, financial,                               reviews from PCU;
                       :ounterpart contribution integrated action; selects environmental, and legal                             final approval of sub
                       andplan for operations   personsresponsible for     reviews); sends proposals ar                         projects; notifies
                       andmaintenance(if        monitoring sub-projects    reviews to PCU                                       associations about
                       appropriate)                                                                                             results and can
                       B) Sends approved                                                                                        request clarifications
                       xoposal to PCU                                                                                           or conditions
 6. Adjustments        B) Participates in                                    A) Requestsadditional       B)Helpsassociation
 (applicable only      improvemento f                                        information from entity thi to adjust its proposal
 when sub-projects     proposal or provision                                 helpedto prepare the
 are approved with     of additional                                         proposal
 conditions or when    information                                           C) Verifies that the revise
 mitigating measures                                                         proposalrespondsto the
 are required)                                                               PCU's requestand returns
                                                                             to step 5A


NB: The letters ineachstep indicatethe orderinwhich activities occurwithin that step



                                                                    - 5%  -

Environmental Management Plan

Impact-scoping involved the identification of environmental risks posed by 28 of the most likely sub-projects
as well as mitigation measures and the possible need to obtain environmental licenses. This information has
been incorporated in the standard sub-project dossiers to help associations minimize environmental problems
at the design stage. The EMP for this component consists of the following requirements: a) identifyingpossible
impacts, the need for additional study and environmental licensing duringsub-project preparation; b) screening
of sub-project proposals by the PCU, with input from SEMA and IBAMA where necessary; c) PAC review
and approval of simplified environmental impact analysis, including mitigation measures and monitoring
indicators where appropriate; d) community training on environmental impacts and responsibilities for
mitigationprior to sub-project implementation; e) implementation of mitigationmeasures where needed; and f,
monitoring and periodic review.

    Project Component4 US$1.05 million
                          -
    CaDacitv Buildina for ParticioatorvManaPement and Technical Assistance
    The purposeso fthis component are to:

        reinforcethe operational capacity of ADAP to coordinate project implementation;
        prepare and implement the managementinformation system(MIS);
        maintain a monitoring and evaluation system for the project, including close collaboration with the
        state Environment Secretariat (SEMA) and the national environmental protection agency (IBAMA);
        and
        undertake information and promotional campaignsfor public awareness.

    Additional capacity-building resourcesare included inother components:

        creation and strengthening of urban neighborhoodassociations(Component 1);
        preparing the AFAP development strategy and business plan, and building its capacity to meet both
        urbanand rural demand for micro-credit (Component 2);
        support the analysis and action planning for the state's administrative reform (Component 2);
        creation and strengthening of rural community andproducer associations(Component 3);
        strengthening the capacity o f the Municipal Development Fora to undertake local sustainable
        development planning, monitoring sub-project implementation and contribute to evaluating whether the
        project is achieving its results (Component 3); and
        assist the Amapd Institute for Rural Development (RURAP) with the supervision of technical
        assistance to communities and the sharing o f knowledge and experience between Municipal
        Development Fora (Component 3).

    Capacity building includes human resource development, acquisition o f goods and services, and the
    creation of operational units for project implementation. ADAP, which will oversee the Project
    Coordination Unit but has not yet implemented a World Bank project, will contract a firm to assist with
    project financial and administrative management. The main objective o f the firm would be to train PCU
    staff to gradually assume this responsibility. Additionally, ADAP will obtain equipment and support to
    create a management information system to assist with project monitoring. The PCU will also be
    responsible for contracting and supervising public awareness campaigns and other activities that will
   provide informationto promote the project's objectives.

    Fundswillbe madeavailable for creation andadministrative strengthening ofAssociations. Several


                                                        - 59 -

community groups operate on an informal level or do not havethe capacity yet to effectively implement
subprojects. ADAP will coordinate all activities for the rural and urban community capacity building.
Experience shows that it takes more than one year to formally create an Association inrural areas. In
several cases, the associationswill needclose supervision to be able to organize the decision-making
processandthe implementationprocess. Experiencesfrom the RESEXproject, partially implemented inthe
Sate o fh a p & show that associationshaddifficulties inaccounting for their funds. ADAP or a
subcontracted organizations will train and assist all associations with procurement procedures and
accounting. Especially inremoterural areas, ADAP will needto closely supervise every subproject because
o f difficulties relatedto communications, access to bankingservices, availability o f technical assistance,
climatic problems, andhighilliteracy rates.

Environment-focused activities

In addition to the component-specific Ems, the following actions will be undertaken to improve the
environmental performance of the project: a) environmental awareness training for the PAC, the PCU,
AFAP staff, RURAP, Municipal Development Fora, and associations; b) involvement of SEMA and
IBAMA in the design of information and dissemination campaigns for the project; c) use of
ecological-economic zoning to identify activities that are being proposed in areas o f high environmental
risks (conservation areas, high biodiversity, natural resources under pressure, fragile or sensitive
environments). This information is already available for the three southernmost municipalities, i s being
developed for the north and the project will finance its creation for the rest of the state; and d) one or more
regional environmental impact analyses to identify the cumulative effect (positive or negative) o f potential
investments inpriority areas.




                                                    - 60 -

                                         Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                 BRAZIL: Amapa Sustainable Communities

                                                                                               Local                 Foreign
                      ProjectCost By Component                                               US $million          US $million
Component 1:Urban Community Development Sub-projects                                            0.59                     1.20                    1.79
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening for Poverty Reduction                                  0.33                    0.69                     1.02
Component 3: Rural Community Development Sub-projects                                           0.44                    2.06                     2.50
Component 4: Capacity Buildingand Technical Assistance                                          0.49                    0.56                     1.05
Total BaselineCost                                                                               1.85                   4.5 1                    6.36
PhysicalContingencies                                                                           0.09                    0.24                     0.33
Price Contingencies                                                                             0.03                    0.03                     0.06
                                       Total ProjectCosts1                                       1.97                   4.78                     6.75
                                                              Front-endfee                                              0.02                     0.02
                               Total FinancingRequired                                           1.97                   4.80                     6.77



                        ProjectCost By Category
Goods                                                                                               0.14                    0.37                     0.5 1
Works                                                                                               0.00                    0.00                     0.00
Services (includingtraining)                                                                        0.74                    2.12                     2.86
                                                                                                    0.00                    0.00                     0.00
Sub-projects(Components1 and 3)                                                                     0.9 1                   1.96                     2.87
Sub-projects(Component2)                                                                            0.00                    0.14                     0.14
PhysicalContingencies                                                                               0.09                    0.23                     0.32
PriceContingencies                                                                                  0.02                    0.04
                                                       Total ProjectCosts'                          1.90                    4.86                     6.76
                                                                    Front-endfee                                            0.02                     0.02
                                              Total FinancingRequired                               1.90                    4.88                     6.78


 1 Identifiabletaxes andduties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 6.81 (US$m). Therefore, the projectcost sharingratio i s 70.48% oftotal
 project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                   - 61 -

                                          Annex 4: Partial Cost-BenefitAnalysis
                                     BRAZIL:Amapa Sustainable Communities


Component 2: FinancialAnalysisofAFAP

As part o f an overall assessment of AFAP, the development bank's financial performance was evaluated.
This indicateda monthly return on the loanportfolio o f 1.37% and an annual operational return of -0.38%
(based on the most recently available data -- through June 30,2002). A thorough evaluation of AFAP was
undertaken as part of project preparation, identifying a range o f operational and financial reforms that will
be financed through the project. It is hoped that these measures, along with an expansion of activities, will
bring the development bank up to the average Brazilian standard for monthly return on loan portfolio
(4.28%) and the average Latin American standard for annual operational return (8.18%).           Data on the
monthly return on the loanportfolio is presentedinTables 4.1 and 4.2, and on the annual operational return
inTables4.3 and4.4. More informationonthe financial analysis ofAFAP is available inthe report inthe
project file.


                                Table 4.1 AFAP Monthly Return and Interest Rate

                        Indicator                    06/30/02          12131/01           12/30/0O
Returnonportfolio (monthly ave.)                      1.37%"            2.11%              2.04%
Effective interest rate (monthly)                  from 1.7% to      from 1.7% to      from 1.7% to
                                                       2.9%              2.9%               2.9%


      Table 4.2 BrazilianMonthlv Return and Interest Rate (averape for micro-credit)
                    Indicator                  I Minimum                         I MaximumValue
 Return onDortfolio (monthlv ave.) I                         Value Average Value
                                                      1.30%            4.28%             6.80%

*Portfolio-at-risk includesrenegotiatedloans




             Return on investment"                    -0.38%             -1%                 3yo
      Adiusted return on investment"                 -3 1.5 1%           NIA                NIA
         Operational self-sufficiency                   60%              59%                27%
               Adjusted operational
                    self-sufficiency                    23%              N/A                NIA
           Financial self-sufficiencv                   98%              97%               119%
                 Adjusted fmaxkial                      37%              NIA                NIA
                    self-sufficiency




                                                           - 62 -

       Returnon Investment                       Minimum      I   Average             Maximum
LatinAmerica micro-credit institutions           0.6%                7.3%               28.7%
 AdjustedReturnonInvestment                    Minimum             Average            Maximum
                                                              I                 I
LatinAmerica micro-credit institutions
(Jansson and Taborga. Datafor                                                           22.9%
December 1998 for the five top                   3.4%

institutions that participatedinthe                                 8*18%



Component3: FinancialAnalysis ofSelectedProductiveInvestments

An indicative financial cost-benefit analysis was prepared for seventypes ofproductive rural sub-projects
that are likely to be financed by the project: a manual manioc flour mill, a mechanized manioc flour mill, a
fruit pulp processing facility, a beekeepinghoney extraction operation, a seedlingnursery, a grain silo, and
a managedaeai plantation. The analysis was done from the viewpoint of the individual producer as well as
the association which would receive a commission from the producer-member. A summary of the results i s
presented below. The full analysis per sub-project, along with assumptions, can be found in the project
file.




                                                    - 63 -

                                  Annex 5: Financial Summary
                            BRAZIL:Amapa Sustainable Communities
                                        Years Ending

                          II                      IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                            Year1  I Year2    I Year3   IYear4   IYear5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
ProjectCosts
  InvestmentCosts              0.5        1.5        1.7      1.6     0.0     0.0    0.0
 Recurrent Costs               0.3        0.5        0.4     0.3      0.0     0.0    0.0
Total ProjectCosts             0.8        2.0        2.1      1.9     0.0     0.0    0.0
             Front-end fee     0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
Total Financing                0.8        2.0        2.1      1.9     0.0     0.0    0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                    0.4        1.3        1.5      1.6     0.0    0.0      0.0
   Government                  0.3        0.7        0.5     0.2      0.0    0.0      0.0
       Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
       Provincial              0.3        0.7        0.5      0.2     0.0    0.0      0.0
   Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries        0.0        0.1        0.1      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                          0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0
Total ProjectFinancing         0.7        2.1        2.1      1.8     0.0    0.0      0.0




Total Financing
Required
ProjectCosts
   InvestmentCosts             1.o       2.1         1.7     0.7      0.0    0.0     0.0
   RecurrentCosts              0.3       0.5         0.4     0.2      0.0    0.0     0.0
Total ProjectCosts             1.3       2.6         2.1     0.9      0.0    0.0     0.0
             Front-endfee      0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0
Total Financing                1.3       2.6         2.1     0.9      0.0    0.0     0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                    1.1        1.9        1.4     0.6      0.0    0.0     0.0
   Government                  0.3       0.6         0.6     0.2      0.0    0.0     0.0
       Central                 0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0
      Provincial               0.3       0.6         0.6     0.2      0.0    0.0     0.0
   Co-financiers               0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries        0.0       0.1         0.1     0.1      0.0    0.0     0.0
Other                          0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total ProjectFinancing         1.4       2.6         2.1     0.9      0.0    0.0     0.0




                                             - 64 -

Front-end fee: The fee i s too small to appear inthis format. For information, inthe operational period, it
constitutes: US$lO,OOO (Year l), (2), $10,000 (3), and $10,000 (4)
                                   $20,000

Mainassumptions:

The U S dollar inflation ratesused for calculating the physicalcontingencies are as follows: 0.50% (Year l),
1.00% (2), 1.51% (3), and 2.02% (4)




                                                         - 65 -

                               Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                            BRAZIL: Amapa SustainableCommunities

Procurement

A.    General
Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" datedMay 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of ConsultantsbyWorld Bank Borrowers" datedMay 2004, andthe provisions
stipulated inthe LegalAgreement.

For eachcontract to be financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or consultant selection
methods, the need for prequalification, estimatedcosts, prior review requirements, andtime frame are
agreedbetween the Borrower and the Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan
willbe updatedat least annually or as required to reflect actual project implementationneeds and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Goods: The proposedproject would finance goods consisting of IT equipment, vehicles,
and logistics, printing, events, and publicity services. There will be no ICB underthe project. The
procurement will be done usingNational SBD agreedwith (or satisfactory to) the Bank. The national
pregao eletronico may be usedas an alternative to shopping for goods contracts estimated to cost less than
us$100,000.

Procurement of Works: Works under this projectwill be financed through the community sub-projects,
subject to special procurement provisions under the operational manual.

Procurement of non-consulting services: ADAP will use administrative procedures (where shopping is
not appropriate) consistent with the national law (i.e pregzo eletronico) to hire logistics and support
services for the multipletraining activities. These serviceswill include rentalo f equipment and facilities,
payment o futilities, andphotocopying and printing, generally inservice orders o f very small amounts (less
than US$3,000). The operational manual will spell out the administrative procedures mentioned above and
their applicability.

Selectionof Consultants: The proposedproject will finance consultant services by firms and individuals.
These services consist o ftraining activities, technical andperformance auditors, independent procurement
reviews, and advisory services. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000
equivalent per contract may be composedentirely o f nationalconsultants inaccordancewith the provisions
o fparagraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. There will be no contracts estimated to cost more than
US$500,000.

Operational Costs: Operational costsreferto the management and supervision o f the Project, including
PCU staff, maintenance and supplies, office furniture, communication services, spare parts for office
equipment and vehicles, and office rental. Itmay include travel and subsistenceexpensesfor PCU staff.
These costs are estimatedto amount to US$1.16 millionequivalent, to be financed inaccordanceto annual
plans subject to Bank's approval. Inquiriesinthe local market will identify suppliers o f sundry items and
minor services. A minimum of 3 quotations will have to be received. Once the suppliers are established,
who will be generally the suppliers offering the lowest cost o f lists o f items, a purchase order will be issued
following regular administrative procedures.The market inquiries will be updatedperiodically. The


                                                      -66 -

operational manual will detail these proceduresand the inquiryprocess, including the updatesand
frequency. Pregiio can also be usedas a procurement method for these items, or an alternative
administrative methodacceptableto the Bank.

Other: Procurement under Components 1,2 and 3 (Sub-projects and Institutional Strengthening)
The micro-credit recipients (individuals or enterprises) and the beneficiary community associations or
NGOs will carry out the procurement under these components. The supervisedmicro-credit to individual
and micro enterprises and the sub-projects benefiting the Municipal Fora, the NGOs, and the organized
communities will have procurement actions of small value. These actions will include social infrastructure
(e.g. works), warehouses, equipment, and services. The project will provide adequate flexibility and
arrangements consistent with par. 3.15 in accordance with the Operational Manual that will spell out the
procurement procedures under the micro-Fredits and sub-projects. This manual will be subject to approval
by the Bank. The approved manual will be a condition of loan effectiveness. There are no aggregate
amounts for the less competitive proceduresto be usedunder the micro-credits and sub-projects.

B.      Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement
The assessment found out that ADAP has limitedexperienceinprocurement with Bank's financing or to
supervise procurement carried out by others. InAmaph, there i s no state central procurement unit; each
Secretariat has its own procurement unit and carries out all types o fprocurement inhouse adhering strictly
to the procurement law 8.666'93. There are no serious concerns raised regarding quality o f internal
procurementpractices of the implementingagency andtheir conformity withprocurement practices
acceptableto the Bank.The possibility of innovationandcreativity inthis project appearsvery limiteddue
to the insufficient capacity of ADAP. Inorder to cover all the stages of the procurement cycle, ADAP will
have to reinforce its capacity either through hiringadditional staff or hiringa management firm. The action
planto increaseADAP's capacity include the following actions: (i) hire a management firm; (ii) retain
                                                                     to                              to
two procurement specialist; (iii)  to update the procurement plan; (iv) to hire independent reviews for the
sub-project component; (v) to provide space to the procurement function; (vi) to install a monitoring
system; and (vii) to develop procurement manuals.
The overallprojectrisk for procurementis high.

C.       Procurement Plan
The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementationwhich provides the
basis for the procurement methods. This plan hasbeenagreedbetweenthe Borrower andthe Project Team
on October 26,2004. Itwill be available inthe Project's database, IRIS, and inthe Bank's external
website. The Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement with the Project Team annually or as required
to reflect the actual project implementation needs andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

D.       Frequency of Procurement Supervision
Inadditionto theprior review supervisionto becarriedout fromBankoffices, the capacity assessmentof
the ImplementingAgency has recommendedbi-annual supervision missions to visit the fieldto carry out
post review o fprocurement actions.

 Procurement methods (Table A)

Not required




                                                     - 67 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                               BRAZIL:Amapa SustainableCommunities

FinancialManavement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment

I FinancialManagementAssessment
  -
A preliminary financial management assessment was conducted inDecember 2002 andan action plan was
agreedwith the existing PCIU, to implementthe financial managementarrangements in order to enable the
Project to effectively manage and monitor the funds to be financed by the Bank. This mission concluded
that with training, installation o f a financial management system and implementation o f all other financial
management requirements, ADAP would have the capacity to implement and manage the project. The
action plan included a) hire and train the financial and accounting staff required for the Project, b) select
and implement the accounting and reporting system, c) design the models of the FMR which would best
suit project's needs, d) design the most simpler and effective possible flow o f funds within the State,
starting at the Loan account up to the endbeneficiaries, and including counterpart resources, e) prepare a
draR o f the Financial Manual, f)adequate and train the AFAP staff who would be incharge to implement
the micro-credit component.

The May 2003 appraisal mission, found out that, due to several reasons, among them, the change in the
State administration and in PCU staff, not much little progress had been made on the to implementation o f
the action plan agreed in December 2002, largely because of changes in the PCU staff related to the new
government. A new PCU organization chart was prepared, but several many positions were not yet
fulfilled. Inthe financial management department, only a financial manager and an informationtechnology
person were hired. Therefore, during the appraisal missiona new detailed actionplanhadto be prepared in
order to implement all financial management arrangements required to manage and monitor the Project's
financial resources, according to Bank's standards. The topics o f this action plan are summarized in the
following paragraphs, and once implemented will enable the PIU to effectively execute the financial
management of the Project. Somebasic requirements are, however, preconditionfor negotiations. And these
are: a) approved Terms of Reference for hiringthe management firm. The TOR will include all financial
management arrangements agreed during the appraisal mission; b) that the bidding process to hire such a
firm has started;. c) preparation of a funds flow chart; and. d) agreement of FMR formats and the time
table for their submission.

The Financial Management arrangementsaction plan, was prepared in accordance with OPBP 10.02 and
the Guidelines for Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects
issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 2001. The Community Driven Development
Projects Guidelines (CDD Guidelines) were also referred to, where applicable. The objectives o f the
financial management action plan were to build up the PCU capacity to: i)properly manage and account
for all project proceeds, costs and transactions, ii)produce timely, accurate and reliable financial
statements and reports for general and Bank special purposes, iii)engage reliable independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and iv) disburse Bank's fimds in the most efficient way and following applicable
Bank's rules and procedures.

The overall assessment work included: a) discussions with the PCU`s Financial staff and other members as
deemed necessary, b) assessment o f the Financial Management Systems to be implemented for project's
accounting, financial administration, controlling, monitoring and reporting, c) analysis o f the financial staff
required and structure of financial department, d) review o f fhds flow mechanisms, e) review o f internal


                                                     - 68 -

controls and administration procedures to control and monitor project execution, f, review disbursement
methodology to be used, g) agree on reporting requirements, and h) review internal and external audit
arrangements.

The financial management risk associatedto the project is rated as highdue to: a) the very limited financial
staff assigned to this project at this time, b) total lack o f experience in dealing with International
Organizations financing. This is the first project to be financed by the Bank, and c) financial management
arrangementsyet to be implemented. These financial managementrisks will be mitigated by the hiringo f a
management firm which will provide support and training and be responsible for managing the project
during the first two to three years of operation. One of the tasks of this firm will be to build the
management capacity of the PCU during this initial period. Once the financial management arrangements
are in place, which will be a condition of effectiveness, the PCU will satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements and will have in place a financial management system that can provide with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely informationon the status of the project.

I1 ProjectRiskanalysis
  -
A detailed risk assessment questionnaire has been filled in on basis of the observations made and is filed
together with the financial management assessment work papers. The Risk Assessment Matrix below
summarizesthe degree of risk, at this time, o f each of the items related to the Financial Management of the
Project.

                                  RiskAssessmentMatrix




                                                                         place
 4. Accounting Policies and Procedures          X                        Not yet implemented
 5. InternalAudit                               X
 6. ExternalAudit                                             X
 7. Reportingand Monitoring                             X
 8. InformationSystems                          x



III-ImplementingUnit




                                                     - 69 -

The Project will be implemented by a PCU existing within ADAP - Agsncia de Desenvolvimento do
Estado do AmapL. ADAP, an independent agency, with Secretariat status, reporting directly to the
Governor. The PCUwas establishedby a Decree No.3036 dated March 26,2003 signed by the Governor.
ADAP is the agency responsible for undertaking development Projects for the State, including those
financed by International Organizations like IDB and IBRD. Its President i s supported by an advisory
Board for technical and legal issues. The Coordinator of the AP Sustainable Communities Project will
report directly to the President of ADAP. ADAP's operational activities are divided between five
Departments: 1) civil works supervision, 2) coordination of projects financed by IDB, 3) coordination of
projects financed by IBRD, 4) financial and administrative, which includes also procurement and
information technology, 5) department incharge of field operations and agencies. The structure seems to
be adequate, however the main functions and positions have yet to be fully defined and filled, and it has to
be taken into account that the State ofAmapL has never executedany project financed by the Bank.

The May 2003 appraisal mission, emphasizedto the Government, that the most urgent action to be taken i s
to hire the Firmwhich will manage the PCU. A draft o f the terms of reference for hiring such a fm were
attached to the aide memoire. The mission also recommended, among other points, that a complete and
detailed organization chart for the project administration be prepared. Some main positions have still to be
fulfilled and the CVs of all PIU staff must be sent to the Bank. This chart should include the list of
responsibilities o f each Department and function descriptions for all partners which will participate in
Project execution, as RURAP, SEPLAN, PRODAP, SEBRAE, Municipal Development Fora and
communities associations.
IV-Flow ofFunds
The final design o f flow o f h d s has yet to be determined, but essentially it will consist of a simplified
version of the traditional funds flow used in other states o f Brazil. A special account will be opened in
Banco do B r a d - New York office, in the name o f the State o f Amapb. An operational account will be
openedspecifically for the project inMacapP, inR$currency, inthe name o f ADAP. Bothaccountswill be
operated by ADAP. From the operational account funds will be transferred from the operational account
directly to the beneficiaries according to each component.:            for the urban and rural development
sub-projects (Components 1 and 3), the funds will be transferred to each community in specific Bank
accounts opened for each sub Project.            For the institutional strengthening and capacity building
components, the finds will be withdrawn directly from A D A P ' s operational account to the suppliers.
Counterpart sourcing will be controlledby ADAP.

V -Staffing
Currently, there are only three positions occupied in the financial management/ administration sector:
manager, information technology person and one staff in charge of procurement. None o f them have
experience with World Bank- financed Projects. The financial manager has no accounting background and
has very little working experience in financial managementingeneral. Duringthe first two to three years of
the Project, a management firm will be hired under terms o f reference approved by the Bank. A key issue
for this firm will be the financial management o f the project. The compliance with all FM requirements,.
including the hiringo f at least one fully qualified accountant, will be a condition o f effectiveness.

VI AccountingPoliciesandProcedures,InternalControls
    -
The management firm to be hiredwill implement an integrated accounting system which will include the
recording of the annual budget, actual transactions and will produce quarterly Financial Statements in
FMRformat.

Financial Statements, boththe quarterly and year end FMRs will be prepared on actual cashbasis. As part


                                                      - 70 -

o f the overall financial managementarrangements, a Financial ManagementManualwill be preparedwhich
will contain all financial management procedures, instructions and policies orienting and defining the
financial management team responsibilities. It can be a separate manual or an annex o f the Operational
Manual. Among other procedures, the Manual will contain detailed instructions and requirements for filling
out documents which will have to be available for field supervisions, audits and Bank's supervision
missions.

VI1- InternalAudit
There are not yet any arrangementsto set up an InternalAudit function,

VI11 Externalaudit
      -
Project Accounts will be audited by external independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and hired
according to terms of reference issued on the basis of the "Guidelines and Terms o f Reference for auditing
o f Projects financed by World Bank inLatin America and Caribbean Countries". The Project will submit a
short list o fthree (3) to six (6) audit firms to the Bank for no objection, prior to starting the biddingprocess
for their hiring.

The auditors will prepare one annual report, due up to six months after the closing o f each Project's fiscal
year, containing the following elements:
1.       Auditor's Opinion and Project Accounts preparedby the PCU inthe agreedFMRformat,
2.       Auditor's Opinion and SOE Statement preparedby the PCU
3.       Auditor's Opinion and Special Account Statementpreparedby the PCU
4.       Auditor`s Opinion oncompliance with legalcovenants
5.       Management Letter

M Reportingandmonitoring
     -
Monitoring and reporting will be done through a Financial Management System to be implemented by the
managementfmwhich will be hiredfor the overall administration of the Project. The project will report in
the format o f FMR Financial Statements to be submitted quarterly. The reports will be generated directly
from the system and will contain data comparing planned figures as per POA with actual figures and
variances both inUS$ and R$. Each report will contain the figures for the quarter, accumulated for year,
accumulated for the Project. Physical Progress and Procurement Reports will also be prepared. The
year-end Financial Statements will be issued also in the same FMR format and will serve for independent
audit purposes. The Project intends to disburse via SOE methodology, and therefore the FMRs will serve
only for reportingpurposes.

X InformationSystems
   -
The systemto be developedand implementedbythe managementfirmto be hired, will be a fully integrated
systemencompassingbudgeting, accounting reporting, physicalprogress and procurement. Furthermore the
system will have modules to control urban and rural community development sub projects. The
micro-credit sub-component within Component 2 to be implemented through AFAP, will have a separate
system and will report results to ADAP to be consolidated into the overall project's system. The Bank will
assess the systemto be implemented and it will have to be fully operational as condition of effectiveness.

XI -DisbursementArrangements
The Project will disburse usingthe SOE methodology. For urban and rural communities development sub-
projects, the guidelines outlined in the reference guide for "Fiduciary Management for Community-Driven
Development Projects" (CDD Guidelines) will apply. In these cases, the periodic payments made to the
communities groups are considered as eligible expenditures, since they are based on the financing


                                                       -71 -

agreementsbetweenthe communities and the PCU, and against physicalprogress.

The initialallocation to the Special account will be based on a four (4) month estimated expenditure up to a
maximum of 10% o f the Loan. Possibly there will be a retroactive financing to cover eligible expenditures
incurred up to the signature of the Loan Agreement. SOE's limits will be the same as o f the ones
establishedfor the Bank's prior review limitsunder the procurement capacity assessment.

XI1 Action Plan
     -
Annex 8 of the appraisal mission aide memoire, includes a detailed action plan to be implemented prior to
effectiveness.Insummary, the action plan encompasses the following key areas:
1.       Complete description of FundsFlow;
2.       Organizationchart includingjob descriptions for all financial management staff;
3.       Implementationo fthe financial managementsystem, including reporting on FMRformat; and
4.       Independent audit arrangements: TOR, short list o f auditors.

XI11-Conditions
All items ofthe actionplan are conditionofeffectiveness.

XIV -Financialcovenants
The financial covenants are the standard covenants which usually are included in article IV, sections 4.01
and4.02 of the standardLoanAgreement.

XV - FinancialManagement SupervisionPlan
Considering the high risk of the Project, at least biannual financial management supervision missions are
required. Duringthe missions, some visits to urbanandrural community sub- projects are recommended.

2. Audit Arrangements

Project Accounts will be audited by external independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and hired
according to terms of reference issued on the basis of the "Guidelines and Terms o f Reference for auditing
of Projects financed by World Bank inLatin America and Caribbean Countries". The Project will submit a
short list o f three (3) to six (6) audit firms to the Bank for no objection, prior to starting the biddingprocess
for their hiring.

The auditors will prepare one annual report, due up to six months after the closing o f each Project's fiscal
year, containing the following elements:
1.       Auditor's Opinion and Project Accounts preparedby the PCU inthe agreedFMRformat,
2.       Auditor's Opinion and SOE Statementpreparedby the PCU
3.       Auditor`s Opinion and Special Account Statement preparedby the PCU
4.       Auditor's Opinion on compliance with legal covenants
5.       Management Letter

3. DisbursementArrangements

The Project will disburse using the SOE methodology. For urban and rural communities development sub-
projects, the guidelines outlined inthe reference guide for "Fiduciary Management for Community-Driven
Development Projects" (CDD Guidelines) will apply. In these cases, the periodic payments made to the
communities groups are considered as eligible expenditures, since they are based on the financing
agreements betweenthe communities and the PCU, andagainst physicalprogress.


                                                        - 72 -

The initial allocation to the Special account will be basedon a four (4) monthestimated expenditure up to a
maximum o f 10% of the Loan. Possibly there will be a retroactive financing to cover eligible expenditures
incurred up to the signature of the Loan Agreement. SOE's limits will be the same as of the ones
established for the Bank's prior review limitsunder the procurement capacity assessment.

 Allocationof loan proceeds(Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

           ExpenditureCategory                IAmount   in US$million   I      FinancingPercentage            1
 Goods, works and servicesunder:                         1.86                             68
 (a) urban and rural community subprojects

 (b) AFAP sub-projects                                   0.23                             68
 Goods (other than under subprojects)                    0.9 1                            83
 Consultants services and training (other                0.89                             74
 than under subprojects)
 Onerational costs                                       0.88                             76
 Front-end fee                                           0.02            Amount due under Section 2.04 of this
                                                                                     Agreement
 Premiafor Interest Rate                                 0.00            Amount due under Section 2.09 (c) of
 Caps and Interest Rate Collars                                                    this Agreement

 Total Project Costswith Bank                            4.79
 Financing
                              Front-endfee    I          0.05                             1.o

                                                         4.84           I




                                                     - 73 -

                              Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                           BRAZIL:Amapa SustainableCommunities

 ProjectSchedule                                           Planned                   Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              8                          35
 First Bank mission (identification)                    12/14/2001                 02118/2002
Appraisal mission departure                             0411512002                 05/05/2003
 Negotiations                                           0611712002                 10/25/2004
/Planned Date of Effectiveness                 I        0911812002       I         02/20/2004   I

Preparedby:
Amaph Development Agency (ADAP);originally planned to be a LearningInnovationLoan (LIL),hence
the short planning horizon


Preparationassistance:


Bankstaff who worked on the project included:
         Name                                           Speciality
 JosefLeitmann                          Task Team Leader
 Maria-Valeria Pena                      Task Team Leader
 Jose August0 Carvalho                  LeadCounsel
 Regis Cunningham                       Senior Finance Officer
 SusanaAmaral                           Finance Analyst
 EfraimJimenez                          LeadProcurement Specialist
 Lucian0 Wuerzius                       Procurement Assistant
 Claudio Mittelstaedt                   FinancialManagement Specialist
 Werner Kornexl                         Private Sector Specialist
 Tidio Barbosa                          Rural Development Specialist
 Judith Lisanslq                        Senior Anthropologist
 Bhrbara Brakarz                        Junior Professional Associate
 Lucilene Anderson                      Team Assistant
 Amanda Schneider                       Team Assistant




                                                 - 74 -

                             Annex 8: Documentsinthe ProjectFile"
                           BRAZIL:Amapa SustainableCommunities


A. Project ImplementationPlan
Carta Consulta Projeto ComunidadesSustentdveis (January 2003)
                -
Plano GeraI deAquisiq3e.s(Procurement Plan; January2003)

B. Bank Staff Assessments

0  Participation Strategy for Indigenous Populations, Quilombo Remnant Communities, Poor Women and
   Youth (English and Portuguese);
0  Plano de GestiioAmbiental (February 2003; updatedMay 2003; Portuguese).

C. Other

0  Avaliaqiio Institucional da Aggncia de Foment0 do Amaph (January 2003);
0   Cost-Benefit Analysis ofProductive Sub-projects (Marcb 2003);
0  Participaqiio e Desenvolvimento: AvaliaqZo Institucional dos 16 Foruns de Desenvolvimento
   Sustentcivel e Tipologia de Representatividade das Comunidades do Estado do AmapQ (August
   2002);
   Pobreza,DesenvolvimentoePolitica Social: 0 cas0 do Estado do Amapa (June 2002);
   Principais Atividades do Projeto ComunidadesSustentciveis (February 2003);
   Proposta de Indicadores para Monitoramento eAvaliaqiio do Projeto ComunidadesSustentheis do
   Amaph (November 2002);
0  Relatdrio de Consultoria Sobrea SituaqiioFundidria do Estado do Amapa (November 2002)
0   Unidade Gestorado Projeto (January 2003).

*Including electronic files




                                                 - 75 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                          BRAZIL: Amapa SustainableCommunities
                                                           19-Jul-2004
                                                                                                                 Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                         and actual
                                                               OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                          disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                   IBRD       IDA                  GEF   Cancel. Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO82328     2005 BR-1nteg.Munic.Proj.-BetimMunicipality       24.00     0.00                 0.00    0.00   24.08        0.00      0.00
P083533     2005 BR TA-Sustain. 8 EquitGrowth                 12.12     0.00                 0.00    0.00    12.12       0.00      0.00
PO87711     2005 BR Espirito Santo Wtr 8 Coastal Pollu        36.00     0.00                 0.00    0.00   36.00        0.00      0.00
PO80830     2004 BR Maranhao Integrated:RuralDev              30.00     0.00                 0.00    0.00   30.00        0.00      0.00
PO60573     2004 BR Tocantins SustainableRegionalDev          60.00     0.00                 0.00    0.00   80.00        2.00      0.00
PO83013     2004 BR Disease Surveillance8 ControlAPL 2       100.00     0.00                 0.00    0.00   100.00       0.00      0.00
PO87713     2004 BR-Bolsa Familia 1stAPL                     572.20     0.00                 0.00    0.00   572.20       0.00      0.00
PO54119     2003 BR BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH)                       30.00     0.00                 0.00    0.00    28.67       1.67      0.00
PO70827     2003 BR-2nd APL BAHIA DEV. EDUCATIONPROJEC        60 00     0.00                 0.00    0.00   48.89       18.93      0.00
PO49265     2003 BR-RECIFE URBANUPGRADING PROJECT             46.00     0.00                 0.00    0.00    45.14       3.14      0.00
PO58503     2003GEF BR Amazon Region ProtAreas (ARPA)          0.00     0.00                 30.00   0.00    27.00       0.00      0.00
PO80400     2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control3                      100.00     0.00                  0.00   0.00    95.00       5.30      0.00
PO74777     2003 BR-Municipal Pension ReformTAL                5.00     0.00                  0.00   0.00     4.70       3.10      0.00
PO76977     2003 BR-Energy Sector TA Project                  12.12     0.00                  0.00   0.00    12.12       2.52      0.00
PO57653     2002 BR- FUNDESCOLAlilA                          180.00     0.00                  0.00   0.00   205.51      -22.78     0.00
PO55954     2002 GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT               65.00     0.00                  0.00   0.00    38.61       35.11      0.00
PO51698     2002 SA0 PAULO METRO LINE4 PROJECT               209.00     0.00                  0.00   0.00   165.18      108.28      0.00
PO57665     2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTHEXTENSiONPROJECT             68.00     0.00                  0.00   0.00    50.81       34.01      0.00
PO74085     2002 BR Sergipe Rural Poverty Reduction           20.80     0.00                  0.00    0.00   11.13        3.83      0.00
PO73192     2002 BR TA Financial Sector                       14.50     0.00                  0.00    0.00    9.30        2.98      0.00
P070552     2002 GEF BR PARANABIODIVERSIN PROJECT              0.00     0.00                  8.00    0.00    8.36        5.34      0.00
PO66170     2002 BR-RGN2ND Rural PovertyReduction             22.50     0.00                  0.00    0.00   14.98        4.63      0.00
PO80221     2002 FORTALEZAMETROPOLITANTRANSPORT PRO           85.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00  111.47       49.02      0.00
PO43869     2002 BRSANTACATARlNANATURALRESOURC8P              62.80     0.00                  0.00    0.00   60.14       14.87      0.00
PO59566     2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                    90.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   74.76      -15.24      0.00
PO73294     2001 BR Fiscal 8 Fin. Mgmt.TAL                     8.88     0.00                  0.00    0.00    6.74        5.78      0.00
PO57649     2001 BR Bahia Rural Poverty ReductionProject      54.35     0.00                  0.00    0.00   17.00        5.35      0.00
P050772     2001 BR LAND-BASEDPOVRTYALLEViATlONI(S           202.10     0.00                  0.00    0.00  218.68      158.43      0.00
PO50880     2001 BR Pernambuco Rural PovertyReduction         30.10     0.00                  0.00    0.00   20.72       14.32      0.00
PO50881     2001 BR PlAUl RURALPOVERTYREDUCTIONPROJ           22.50     0.00                  0.00    0.00   11.15        8.15      0.00
PO50875     2001 BR Ceara Rural PovertyReductionProject       37.50     0.00                  0.00    0.00   13.94        4.94      0.00
PO62619     2000 BR iNSS REF LIL                               5.05     0.00                  0.00    0.00    0.36       -0.14      0.67
PO39199     2000 BR PROSANEAR2                                30.30     0.00                  0.00    6.40   22.29       28.69      0.00
PO35741     2000 BR NATL ENV 2                                15.00     0.00                  0.00    2.32    5.61        7.93      7.93
PO06449     2000 BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERiRHSIM               136.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   78.16       43.66      0.50
PO50776     2000 BR NE Microfinance Development               50.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   30.15      -19.85      0.00
PO47309     2000 BR ENERGY EFFiCiENCY(GEF)                     0.00     0.00                 15.00    3.29    10.00      12.13      -0.69
PO50763     1999 BR- Fundescola2                             202.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    17.29      17.29       0.00
PO48869     1999 BR SALVADORURBANTRANS                       150.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   91.75       91.75       0.00
PO58129     1999 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION(ERL)                15.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    5.46        5.46      -0.52
PO06474     1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)                    55.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00   47.32       47.32     13.04
PO06559     1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                                 45.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    3.88        3.88       0.00
PO35728     1998 BR BAHIAWTR RESOURCES                        51.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    7.72        7.72      -1.28
PO57910     1998 BR PENSION REFORMLIL                          5.00     0.00                  0.00    0.50     1.54       2.04       0.35
PO38895     1998 BR FED,WTR MGT                              198.00     0.00                  0.00   40.00   54.67       94.67       1.53
PO43421     1998 BR RJ M.TRANSiTPRJ.                         186.00     0.00                  0.00   27.78   96.09      123.87       0.00
PO43420     1998 BR WATER S.MOD.2                            150.00     0.00                  0.00  125.00    19.33     144.30       1.53
PO42565     1998 BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                         60.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    14.91      14.91       0.00
PO43873     1997 BRAG TECH DEV.                               60.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    17.42      17.42      17.42
P006532     1997 FED H M DECENTR                             300.00     0.00                  0.00   50.00    63.46     113.46     103.78
PO43868     1997 BR RGS LAND MGTIPOVERN                      100.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    16.42      16.42      16.42
PO06562     1997 BAHiA MUN.DV                                100.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00     8.46       8.46       8.46
PO34578     1997 BR RGS Highway MGT                           70.00     0.00                  0.00    0.00    37.54      37.54      37.54




                                                              - 76 -

                                                                                                              Difference between expected
                                                                                                                       and actual
                                                           OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                            IBRD          IDA                     GEF  Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO06210     1996 GEF BR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY                0.00       0.00                10.00     0.00    1.80        2.59       0.50
P037828     1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                       175.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   52.08       52.08      52.08

                                              Total:  4398.82        0.00               63.00    255.29  2838.10    1327.28    259.23




                                                         - 77 -

                                             BRAZIL
                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                      HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                           Mar 2004
                                                -
                                      InMillionsUSDollars

                                                                                                        ~~
                                                       Committed                      Disbursed
                                                      IFC                           IFC
FY Approval    Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi        Partic
2001           AG Concession                    0.00   15.00    15.00   0.00   0.00   14.07   0.00        0.00
1996197        Algar Telecom                    0.00    8.17     0.00   0.00   0.00   8.17    0.00        0.00
2002           Amaggi                          30.00    0.00     0.00   0.00  30.00   0.00    0.00        0.00
2002           Andrade G. SA                   30.00    0.00    10.00  20.00  30.00   0.00    10.00       20.00
2001           Apolo                            8.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   5.50   0.00    0.00        0.00
1998           Arteb                           20.00    7.00     0.00  18.33  20.00   7.00    0.00        18.33
1999           AutoBAn                         25.97    0.00     0.00  21.57  25.97   0.00    0.00        21.57
1998           BSC                              6.11    0.00     0.00   3.09   6.03   0.00    0.00        3.09
1993196        BLJNGECEVAL                      0.00    2.88     0.00   0.00   0.00   2.88    0.00        0.00
1990191        Bahia Sul                        0.00     1.99    0.00   0.00   0.00   1.99    0.00        0.00
1996103        BancoBradesco                    6.54    0.00     0.00  39.24   6.54   0.00    0.00        39.24
1994196        Bradesco-Petrofl                 7.50    0.00     0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00    0.00         0.00
2002           CHAPECO                          1.78     0.00    0.00   5.26   1.78   0.00    0.00         5.26
1978183        CN Odebrecht                    48.15     0.00   20.00  86.85  48.15   0.00   20.00        86.85
2003           CODEMIN                          0.00    0.40     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.40    0.00         0.00
1992           CPFL Energia                     0.00    0.00    40.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   40.00         0.00
1997           CRP-Caderi                       0.00     0.32    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.32    0.00         0.00
1997100        Copesul                         15.00     0.00    0.00  5 1.43 15.00   0.00    0.00        51.43
1980192        Coteminas                        0.00     0.53    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.53    0.00         0.00
1995           DENPASA                          0.00    0.12     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.12    0.00         0.00
1998           Distel Holding                  11.68     0.00    0.00   0.00  11.68   0.00    0.00         0.00
1997           Dixie Toga                       0.00   15.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   15.00   0.00         0.00
1999           Duratex                          7.8 1    0.00    0.00  18.43   7.81   0.00     0.00       18.43
1998           Eliane                          23.47     0.00   13.00   0.00  23.47   0.00    13.00        0.00
2001102        Empesca                          5.00     0.00   10.00   0.00   5.00   0.00    10.00        0.00
2000           Escola                           0.00     0.25    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.25     0.00        0.00
1998           Fleury                           7.07     0.00    6.00   0.00   7.07   0.00     6.00        0.00
1998           Fosfertil                        6.06     0.00    0.00  26.02   6.06   0.00     0.00       26.02
1994           Fras-le                          7.33     0.00   10.00   0.00   7.33    0.00    6.70        0.00
2001           GAVEA                            2.8 1    0.00    5.50   0.00   2.8 1  0.00     5.50        0.00
1997           GP Cptl Rstrctd                  0.00     9.67    0.00   0.00   0.00    9.54    0.00        0.00
1998           GPC                              9.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   9.00    0.00    0.00        0.00
1999           Guilman-Amorim                  22.73     0.00    0.00  38.32  22.73    0.00    0.00       38.32
1980187197     Icatu Equity                     0.00   20.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   12.60    0.00        0.00
1999           InnovaSA                        15.00     5.00    0.00  40.00  15.00    5.00    0.00       40.00
2000102        Ipiranga                        13.11     0.00   10.52  39.75  13.11    0.00   10.52       39.75
1999           Itaberaba                        0.00     5.34    0.00   0.00   0.00    5.34    0.00        0.00
1995           Itau-BBA                        62.63     0.00    0.00   0.00  49.08    0.00    0.00        0.00
1992199        JOSAPAR                          7.57     0.00    7.00   0.00   2.57    0.00    7.00        0.00
2002           Lojas Americana                  6.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   6.00    0.00    0.00        0.00
2002           MBR                             17.50     0.00    0.00   0.00  17.50    0.00    0.00        0.00
               Macae                           52.03     0.00   10.00  43.75  52.03    0.00   10.00       43.75
               MacedoNordeste                   0.00     0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    5.00        0.00
               Microinvest                      0.00     1.25    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.12    0.00        0.00
                      Total Portfolio:       668.25    154.45   212.19 537.85 589.80  137.85  193.89      507.85




                                             - 78 -

                                              Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval    Company                      Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002           Andrade                       0.00       0.00     0.00    100.00
2000           BBA                         10.00        0.00     0.00     0.00
2002           BXICOItau-BBA                 0.00       0.00     0.00    100.00
2001           Brazil CGFund                 0.00       0.00    20.00     0.00
1999           Cibrasec                      0.00       0.00     7.50     0.00
2002           Net Servicos2               50.00        0.00     0.00     0.00
2002           Suape ICT                     6.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2004           TermoFortaleza              55.50        7.00     0.00    112.50
2002          Unibanco-CL                    0.00       0.00     0.00    150.00

              Total PendingCommitment:     121.50       7.00    27.50    462.50




                                        - 79 -

POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                America    middle-
                                                                     Brazil      & Carib.   income           Developmentdiamond*
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                        172.6           524        504
GNI per capita (Atlasmethod, US$)                                                                                             Lifeexpectancy
                                                                     3,060          3,560     4,460
GNI (Atlasmethod, US$billions)                                       528.7          1.862     2,248
Average annual growth, 1995-01
                                                                        I.3           1.5        1.3
                                                                        1.8           2.2        1.8         GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                                                                                       primary
Mostrecentestimate (latestyear available, 1995-01                                                            per
                                                                                                             capita                                  nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertvline)                         22
Urbanpopulation(% of totalDoDulafio                                     82            76         77
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                          68            70         71
Infantmortality(per 1,000 livebirths)                                   30            29         24
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder51                                     6             9         9                  Accessto improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpoDulation)                       87            85         87
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationaoe 15+J                                       14             12        10
Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-aqepopulation)                      154            130       127              -Brazil
    Male                                                               156            131       128              --
                                                                                                                     -I_  Upper-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                             152            128       126         I




                                                          1981        1991          2000       2001           Economicratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                        263.6      407.7          593.8     502.0
GrossdomesticinvestmenffGDP                                23.1       19.8          21.7        21.0
Exportsof goodsandserviceslGDP                               9.4        8.7                                                       Trade
                                                           22.7       20.5
                                                                      18.6
Currentaccount balancelGDP                                  -4.5       -0.3          -4.1       -46
Interestpayments/GDP                                                    0.5           2.2        2.1         savings
                                                                                                             Domestic                              Investment
                                                            30.9      29.7          39.8        45.0
       debtservicelexports                                 66.4       23.3          92.0        60.5
  resentvalue of debffGDP                                                            37.7
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                              ..        327.4
                                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                          1981-91 1991-01             2000          2001    2001-05
(averaqe annualqmwfh)
GDP                                            2.9           2.9        4.4           1.5        2.8              -'-Brazil
GDP percapita                                  0.9           1.5        3.1           0.2        I.6                       Upper-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goodsandservices                     6.8           6.4      11.4           12.1        3.7
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                          1981        1991          2000       2001          Growthof investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                 10.7        7.0           7.4        9.3            T                                             I
Industry                                                   43.7       36.2           28.3       33.9         2o

   Manufacturing                                           32.9       25.3           17.4       21.0
Services                                                   45.5       56.1          64.3        56.8
Privateconsumption                                         68.0       61.6           60.6       60.1         -10 1
Generalgovemmentconsumption                                  9.3      17.9           19.3       19.9
Importsof goodsand services                                  9.8        7.9          12.4       14.4                       V G D I           -GDP             I
                                                       1981-91 1991-01              2000       2001          Growthof exports and Imports(%)
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                                                         L
Agriculture                                                  2.5        3.4           3.0        5.1
Industry                                                    2.2         2.5           4.9       -0.6
   Manufacturing                                             1.4        1.9           6.1        0.6
Services                                                     3.5        2.9           3.7        1.5

Privateconsumption                                           1.2        5.0           3.7        2.6
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                 7.5       -1.0           0.0        4.8
Grossdomestic investment                                     3.9        3.5          11.2       -2.0
Importsof goodsandservices                                  2.9       10.0           12.4        0.7

Note: 2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. if data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                               - 80 -

 PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1981   1991    2000    2001
 Domesticprices                                                              Inflation (%)
 (% change)
 Consumer prices                           101.7   432.8     6.0     7.7      75
 ImplicitGDP deflator                      107.2   415.3     8.0     7.4      50
 Government finance la                                                        25
 (% of GDP, includes current grants)                                           0
 Currentrevenue                                             21.9    23.0                96     97      96       99        W        01
 Currentbudget balance                                       1.8     1.8
 Overall surpluddeficit                                      3.2     3.8             W G D P deflator         . I o I C P I


 TRADE
                                           1981    I991    2000    2001
 (US$millions)                                                               Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
 Total exports (fob)                              31,620  55,086  58,223
   Coffee                                          2,870   3,048  2,932
                                                                            ~
   Soybeans                                        2,031   2,188  2,726      60,000
   Manufactures                                  20,483   41,027 41,144
 Total imports (cif)                             21,041   55,783 55,581      40,oOo
   Food                                            1,275   1,507   1,169
   Fueland energy                                  3,371   6,362  6,276      20,000

   Capitalgoods                                    5,966  13,591  14,803          0

 Export price index (1995=100J                81      81      97      94             95     96    97      90     99     00

 Importprice index (1995=100)                 70      68     118     114                      Exports             Imports
 Terms of trade (1995=100J                   116     120      82      82

 BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                           1981    1991    2000    2001
 (US$millions)                                                               Current account balanceto GDP (%)                       I
 Exports of goodsand services             25,522  34,333  64,584  67,545
 Imports of goods and services            27,200 26,142   72,443  72,652
 Resourcebalance                          -1,678   8,191  -7,859  -5,107
 Net income                              -10,272 -11,154 -17,886 -19,743
 Netcurrenttransfers                          10   1,556   1,521   1,638
 Currentaccountbalance                   -11,940  -1,407 -24,224 -23,212
 Financingitems (net)                     12,286  -3,272  31,904  19,468
 Changesin net reserves                     -346   4,679  -7,680   3,744
 Memo:
 Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)      6,693   8,763  33,011  35,866
 Conversion rate IDEC, /ocal/US$J       3.38E-11 1.48E-4     1.8     2.4

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1981    1991    2000    2001
 (US$millionsJ                                                                Composition of 2001debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt outstandingand disbursed      81,454 121,020 236,157 226,067
    IBRD                                   2,286   8,165   7,377   7,963                            A 7.963
    IDA                                        0       0                                                      c 8,337
                                                               0       0             G 29,292

 Total debt service                       17,874   8,340  62,891  42,977
    IBRD                                     317   1,917   1,351   1,362
    IDA                                        0       0       0       0
 Compositionof net resourceflows
    Officialgrants                             8      50      54
    Officialcreditors                      1,230  -1,062  -1,780     786
    Privatecreditors                       7,512   1,701   7,936   3,615
    Foreigndirect investment               2,520   1,103  32,779  22,457
    Porlfolioequity                            0     803   3,076   2,481                    F 152,416
 World Bank program
    Commitments                            1,039   1,348   1,290   1,609     A IBRD
                                                                                -                                   E Bilateral
                                                                                                                      -
    Disbursements                           387      840   1,692   1,639     B IDA        D - Other multilateral    F -Private
    Principalrepayments                      136   1,248     887     828     C IMF
                                                                                -.                                  G Short-term
                                                                                                                      -
    Netflows                                251    -408      805     810
    Interest payments                        181    669      464     533
    Nettransfers                              70  -1,077     341     277

'ueveiopmenr tconomics                                                                                                     !.J/l z/uz
 a. Data referto centralgovernment.


                                                        - 81 -

               Additional Annex 11:Amapa Poverty Profile
                BRAZIL:Amapa Sustainable Communities




         Areas                       Populaqiio             Taxa de Crescimento
                                 1996            2000            (YOa.a.)
Amapl                          379.459         475.843             5,82
Urbano                         330.590         423.581             6,39
Rural                          48.869           52.262              1,69
Norte (excl. Amapl)         10.908.800       12.417.718            3,29
Urbano                       6.708.495        8.579.381            6,34
Rural                        4.200.305        3.838.337            -2,23
Norte                       11.288.259       12.893.561            3,38
Urbano                       7.039.085        9.002.962            6,35
Rural                        4.249.174        3.890.599            -2,18
Brasil (excl. Amapl)        156.690.704      169.114.850            1,93
Urbano                      122.746.241      137.331.969            2,85
Rural                       33.944.463       31.782.881            -1,63
Brasil Total                157.070.163      169.590.693            1,94
Urbano                      123.076.831      137.755.550            2,86
Rural                       33.993.332       31.835.143            -1.63
  Sources:IBGE,PopulationCount 1996andDemographicCensus2000.




                                      - 82 -

                                                      Table 11.2
                                         State Population and Growth Rate
                                (By urb
       A m a p a e M u n i c i p i o s          1996                        2000           Taxa de Crescimento
             total e estratos           PopulaqBo  Part. (%)     PopulapLo     Part. (%)         (YOa.a.)
E s t a d o do A m a p P                 379.459    100,oo        475.843       100,oo             5,82
  U r b a n o                            330.590    87,12        423.581        89,02              6,39
  R u r a l                              48.869     12,88         52.262        10,98              1,69
S e r r a do N a v i o                    2.751      0,72          3.294         0,69              4,61
  U r b a n o                             1.248     45,37          1.215        36,89             -0,67
  R u r a l                               1.503     54,63          2.079        6 3 , l l          8,45
A m a p i                                 6.441      1,70          7.122         1,50              2,54
  U r b a n o                             5.440     84,46          5.923        83,16              2,15
  R u r a l                               1.001     15,54          1.199        16,84              4,62
P e d r a Bca. A m a p a r i              3.018      0,80          3.993         0,84              1,25
  U r b a n o                              8 7 7    29,06          1.359        34,03             11,57
  R u r a l                               2.141     70,94          2.634        65,97              5,32
CalGoene                                  5.678      1,50          6.726         1,41              4,33
  U r b a n o                             4.269     75,18          5.262        78,23              5,37
  R u r a l                               1.409     24,82          1.464        21,77              0,96
Cutias                                    1.998      0,53          3.281         0,69             13,20
  U r b a n o                              9 1 4    45,75          1.441        43,92             12,05
  R u r a l                               1.084     54,25          1.840        56,08             14,14
F e r r e i r a Gomes                     2.604      0,69          3.529         0,74              7,90
  U r b a n o                             1.910     73,35          2.508        71,07              7,05
  R u r a l                                6 9 4    26,65          1.021        28,93             10,13
I t a u b a l                             1.945      0,51          2.894         0,61             10,44
  U r b a n o                              6 9 6    35,78          1.175        40,60             13,99
  R u r a l                               1.249     64,22          1.719        59,40              8,31
L a r a n j a l J a r i * (2000)                                  28.196         5,93
V i t 6 r i a J a r i (2000)                                       8.550         1,80
L a r a n j a l J a r i (1996)           29.904      7,88         36.746         7,72              5,29
  U r b . Laranjal Jari (2000)                                    26.487        93,94
  U r b . V i t 6 r i a Jari (2000)                                6.887        80,55
  Urb. Laranjal Jari (1996)              21.415     71,61         33.374        90,82              11.73
  R u r a l Laranjal Jari (2000)                                   1.709         6,06
  R u r a l V i t 6 r i a Jari (2000)                              1.663         19,45
  R u r a l Laranjal Jari (1996)          8.489     28,39          3.372         9,18             -20,6 1
Macapi                                   220.962    58,23         282.745       59,42              6,36
  U r b a n o                            209.663    94,89         270.077       95,52              6,53
  R u r a l                              11.299      5 , l l       12.668        4,48              2,90
Mazag%o                                  11.353      2,99         12.027         2,53              1,45
  U r b a n o                             5.212     45,91          5.956        49,52              3,39
  R u r a l                               6.141     54,09          6.071        50,48              -0,29
O i a p o q u e                           9.820      2,59         12.895         2,71              7,05
  U r b a n o                             5.590     56,92          7.855        60,92              8,88
  R u r a l                               4.230     43,08          5.040        39,08              4,48
Porto G r a n d e                         7.191      1,90         11.037         2,32              11,31
  U r b a n o                             5.051     70,24          7.366        66,74              9,89
  R u r a l                               2.140     29,76          3.671        33,26              14,44
P r a c u u b a                           1.690      0,45          2.297         0,48              7,97
  U r b a n o                              6 4 1    37,93           9 6 9       42,19              10,88
  R u r a l                               1.049     62,07          1.328         57,81             6,07
Santana                                  69.501     18,32         80.169         16,85             3,63
  U r b a n o                            65.513     94,26         75.629         94,34             3,65
  R u r a l                               3.988      5,74          4.540         5,66              3,29
Tartarugalzinho                           4.603      1,21          7 . 0 8 8     1,49              11,40
  U r b a n o                             2.151     46,73          3.472         48,98             12,72
  R u r a l                               2.452     53,27          3.616         51,02
Sources: IBGE, PopulationCount 1' 6 e DemographicCensus          30
*Municipality thatwas sub-dividedduring the periodbetweenthe 1996population count andthe 2000 demographiccensus.



                                                            - 83 -

                                             Table 11.3
                                  Number and Percentage of Poor
                             By municipality and url Indistrict, 2000)
                                     PopulaqBo                            Pobres
    Amapb, Municipios e                                    Total           Rural        Urbana
          Distritos            Total   Rural  Urbana     N O    Prop.
                                                                ("/.I ("/.INo Prop.          Prop.
                                                                         N O                  ("/.I
Estado do Amapfi              471.520  95.977 375.543           -
AmapA                          6.965   6.965     0     3.248    46,6  3.248    46,6     0
  Amapb                        6.191   6.191     0     2.884    46,6  2.884    46,6     0
  Sucuriju                     774      774      0      364     47,O  364      47,O     0
Calqoene                       6.369   6.369     0     2.888    45,3  2.888    45,3     0
  Calqoene                     4.750   4.750     0     2.041    43,O  2.041    43,O     0
  Cunani                       887      887      0      384     43,3  384      43,3     0
  Lourengo                     732      732      0      463     63,3  463      63,3     0
Cutias                         3.215   3.215     0      1.861   57,9  1.861    57,9     0
  Cutias                       3.215   3.215     0      1.861   57,9  1.861     57,9    0
Ferreira Gomes                 3.525   3.525     0      1.744   4 9 3 1.744    4 9 3    0
  Ferreira Gomes               3.525   3.525     0      1.744   49,5  1.744    49,5     0
Itaubal                        2.861   2.861     0      1.390   48,6  1.390     48,6    0
  Itaubal                      2.861   2.861     0      1.390   48,6  1.390    48,6     0
Laranjal do Jari              28.328      0   28.328   13.799   48,7      0     090  13.799
  Laranjal do Jari            28.328      0   28.328   13.799   48,7      0     0,o  13.799
Macapsi                       281.510  8.060  273.450  108.624  38,6  5.600     69,5 103.024
  Bailique                     4.255   4.255     0      3.473   81,6  3.473     81,6    0
  Carapanantuba                755      755      0      294     38,9   294      38,9    0
  Fazendinha                   6.648      0    6.648    3.375   50,8      0     0,o   3.375
  Macapb                      266.802     0   266.802  99.649   37,3      0     0,o  99.649
  SBo Joaquim do Pacui         3.050   3.050     0      1.833   60,l  1.833     60,l    0
Mazaggo                       11.580   11.580    0      6.611   57,l  6.611     57,l    0
  Carvlo                       696      696      0      470     67,5   470      67,5    0
  MazagHo                      5.562   5.562     0      2.574   46,3  2.574     46,3    0
  Mazaggo Velho                5.322   5.322     0      3.567   67,O  3.567     67,O    0
Oiapoque                      12.520   12.520    0      3.443   27,5  3.443     27,5    0
  ClevelLndia do Norte         770      770      0      203     26,4   203      26,4    0
  0iapoque                     9.289   9.289     0      2.383   25,7  2.383     25,l    0
  Vila Velha                   2.461   2.461     0       857    34,8   857      34,8    0
Pedra Bca. Amapari             3.846   3.846     0      2.545   66,2  2.545     66,2    0
  Pedra Bca. Amapari           3.846   3.846     0      2.545   66,2  2.545     66,2    0
Porto Grande                  10.445   10.445    0      3.462   33,l  3.462     33,l    0
  Porto Grande                10.445   10.445    0      3.462   33,l  3.462     33,l    0
Praculiba                      2.230   2.230     0      1.111   49,8  1.111 49,8        0
  Pracuitba                    2.230   2.230     0      1.111   49,8  1.111     49,8    0
Santana                       79.766   6.001  73.765   39.279   49,2  2.684     44,7 36.595
  Igarapk do Lago              83 1     831      0      499     60,O   499      60,O    0
  Ilha de Santana              1.688    1.688    0       758    44,9   758      44,9    0
  Portuirio IgarapC Fortalezz  3.482   3.482     0      1.427   41,O  1.427     41,O    0
  Santana                     73.765      0   73.765   36.595   49,6      0     090  36.595
Serra do Navio                 3.273   3.273     0      1.515   46,3  1.515     46,3    0
  Serra do Navio               3.273   3.273     0      1.515   46,3  1.515     46,3    0
Tartarugalzinho                6.996   6.996     0      3.554   50,8  3.554     50,8    0
  Tartarugalzinho              6.996   6.996     0      3.554   50,8  3.554     50,8    0
Vit6ria do Jari                8.091   8.091     0      3.267   40,4  3.267     40,4    0
  Vit6ria do Jari              8.091   8.091     0      3.267   -
                                                                40,4  3.267     0,4     0
     Source: IBGE, Demograp :Census, 2000.




                                               - 84 -

                                     Table 11.4
                                Poverty inMacapri
                           (By urban district*, 2000)

                 ~~    ~~                            PodacBo

   Macaphe Bairros                                                Pobre
                                    Total          N h e r o Prop. (%) Part. (YO)

Macadi                             281.510         108.624          38.6         100.0
. Bairros de Macaph
 Alvorada                           1.727            269            15,6
 Araxri                             5.110           2.912           57,O
 Beirol                             9.285           2.439           26,3
  Bonk Am1                          1.933             356           18,4
  Brasil Novo                       5.850           3.432           58,7
  Buritizal                         33.736          12.457          36,9
  Cabralzinho                       1.972             255            12,9
  Central                           17.886          2.788            15,6
  Cong6s                            20.100          7.851           39,l
  Do Trem                           7.201           1.516           21,l
  Jardim Equatorial                  703              94             13,4
  Jardim Felicidade                 14.114          4.917           34,8
  Jesus de Nazark                   4.672           1SO9            32,3
  Laguinho                          7.442           1.452            193
  Marco Zero                        9.693           3.773           38,9
 Nova Esperanqa                     4.633           1.937           41,8
  Novo Horizonte                    18.456          9.160           49,6
  Pacoval                           11.213          3.325            29,7
  Pedrinhas                         2.452             870            3 5 3
  PerpCtuo Socorro                  25.488          11.807          46,3
  Santa In&                         5.307           2.756            51,9
  Santa Rita                        12.244          3.076            25,l
  SBo Jorge                         14.566          6.421            44,l
  SBo Lhzaro                        10.194          4.789            47,O
  Universidade (ZerBo)              17.525          7.067            40,3
  Semespecificaqiio                 18.008          12.310           68.4
   Source: IBGE, Demograpf
                         - -    Census, 2000.
   *The unspecified category is a summation data from various rural areas inthe municipality.




                                         - 85 -

                                                        Table 11.5
                                     Composite Quality of Life Indicator*
                  (For municipalities, districts and Macap4 neighborhoods, 2000)

             Municipio                                    Distrito Municipio
                                                                  -                                      Bairros de Macapa
 1    P. Bca. Amapd    :   0,68       Bailique                             Macaph                0,77  Sem especificaqb  0,63
 2    Mazagb               0,60       Mazag50Velho                       Mazagb                  0,76  Araxh              0,53
 3    Tartarugalzinho      0,55       Sucuriju                             Amaph                 0,74  BradNovo           0,50
 4    Cutias               0,52       P. Bca. Amapari                      P. Bca. Amapari       0,68  Novo Horizonte     0,50
 5    Vitdria do Jari      0,48       Lourengo                             Calqoene              0,66  SPo Jorge          0,47
 6    Laranjaldo Jari      0,47       c m z o                              Mazagb                0,63  Univ.(Zergo)       0,45
 7    Calgoene             0,46       Igarapkdo Lago                       Santana               0,6 1  SBO Lharo         0,43
 8    Pracu~ba             0,46       CUnani                               Calgoene              0,60  Marco Zero         0,43
 9    FerreiraGomes        0,45       Carapanantuba                        Macaph                0,59   SantaIn&          0,40
 10 Itaubal                0,44       Vila Velha                         Oiapoque                0,56  Perpktuo Socorro   0,36
 11 h a p 6                0944       Tartarugalzinho                      Tartarugalzinho       0,55  Congds             0,33
 12 Santana                0,43       Cutias                               Cutias                0,52  JardimFelicidade   0,33
 13 PortoGrande            0,39       Fazendinha                           MacapL                0,5 1 NovaEsperanga      0,32
 14 Oiapoque               0,37       Ilhade Santana                       Santana               0,48   Pedrinhas         0,3 1
 15 Macaph                 0,34       Vitdria do Jari                      Vitdria do Jari       0,48   Buritizal         0,29
 16 Serrado Navio          0,32       LaranjaldoJari                       Laranjal do Jari      0,47   Jesus deNazark    0,25
 17                                   MazagZo                              Mazagb                0,46   Pacoval           0,24
 18                                   S b Joaquimdo Pacui                  Macaph                0,46   Beirol            0,20
 19                                   Pracuuba                             Pracuiiba             0,46   SantaRita         0,19
 20                                   FerreiraGomes                        FerreiraGomes         0,45   Bonk Azul         0,19
 21                                   Itaubal                              Itaubal                0,44  Laguinho          0,12
 22                                   Santana                              Santana                0,43  Do Trem           0,08
 23                                   h p h                                Amaph                  0,40  Cabralzinho       0,07
 24                                   Calqoene                             Calqoene               0,40  JardimEquatorial  0,07
 25                                   Porto Grande                         Porto Grande           0,39  Alvorada          0,07
 26                                   PortuhrioIgarapk Fortaleza           Santana                0,36  Central           0,05
 27                                   Oiapoque                             Oiapoque               0,34
 28                                   Macaph                               Macaph                 0,32
 29                                   Serrado Navio                        Serrado Navio          0,32
 30                                   Cleveliindiado Norte                 Oiapoque               0.25

*Simple average o fwater and sanitation, literacy and income indicators; 1.OO = worst; 0.00 = best.




                                                           - 86 -

                                                  Table 11.6
                              PopulationWeightedCompositeIndicator
  (Contributionto numberofpoor bymunicipality,districtand Macapiineighborhood,
                                                     2000)

    I       Municioio                             Distrito - Municipio                     Bairros de Macapl
 1 Macapl               0,184     Macaph                       Macapl           0,163  Sem especificaqb   0,03916
 2   Santana            0,085     Santana                      Santana          0,079  Novo Horizonte     0,02310
 3   Laranjal do Jari   0,032     Laranjaldo Jari              Laranjal do Jari 0,032  Perpetuo Socorro   0,02168
 4   Mazaggo            0,020     MazaggoVelho                 Mazaggo          0,014  Buritizal          0,01833
 5   Tartarugalzinho    0,010     Bailique                     Macapl           0,014  Univ. (Zergo)      0,01620
 6   P. Bca. Amapari    0,009     Tartarugalzinho              Tartarugalzinho  0,010  SPo Jorge          0,01521
 7   Vitoria do Jari    0,008     P. Bca. Amapari              P. Bca. Amapari  0,009  Congos             0,O 1304
 8   Amapl              0,007     Fazendinha                   Macapl           0,009  SZo Lfizaro        0,O 1043
 9    PortoGrande       0,007     Viroria do Jari              Viroria do Jari  0,008  BradNovo           0,00874
10 Calqoene             0,007     PortoGrande                  Porto Grande     0,007  Marco Zero         0,00814
11 Oiapoque             0,006     Mazagb                       Mazagb           0,006  JardimFelicidade   0,008 11
12 Cutias               0,005     Amapa                        Amapa            0,006  Araxti             0,00778
13 FerreiraGomes        0,004     Cutias                       Cutias           0,005  santaIn&           0,00559
14 Itaubal              0,003     S i b Joaquimdo Pacui        Macapl           0,004  Pacoval            0,00396
15 Pracuhba             0,003     Calqoene                     Calqoene         0,004  NovaEsperanga      0,003 11
 16 Serrado Navio       0,002     Oiapoque                      Oiapoque        0,004  SantaRita          0,00288
                                  FerreiraGomes                FerreiraGomes    0,004  Beirol             0,00247
                                  Itaubal                       Itaubal         0,003  Jesus de Nazark    0,00193
                                  PortuhrioIgarapkFortaleza     Santana         0,003  Pedrinhas          0,00135
                                  Pracuhba                      Pracu~ba        0,003  Laguinho           0,00089
                                  Serrado Navio                 SerradoNavio    0,002  Central            0,00075
                                  Vila Velha                    Oiapoque        0,002  Do Trem            0,00061
                                  Ilhade Santana                Santana         0,002  Bonk Azul          0,00033
                                  Lourenqo                      Calqoene        0,002  Alvorada           0,00009
                                  Igarapk do Lago               Santana         9,002  Cabralzinho        0,00009
                                  Carvb                         Mazagb          0,002  Jardim Equatorial  0,00003
                                  Sucuriju                      Amapl           0,oo 1
                                  Cunani                        Calgoene        0,001
                                  Carapanantuba                 Macapl          0,001
                                  Cleveliindiado Norte          Oiapoque        0,000
Source: IBGE, Demographic Census, 2000.




                                                     - 87 -

      Additional Annex 12: OrganizationalStructure for ProjectCoordination Unit
                             BRAZIL:Amapa Sustainable Communities


                            ORGANIZATIONALSTRUCTUREOFWBfiADBPROJECTCOORDINATIONUNIT

                                                                PRESIDENCY



                                                            GENERAL COORDINATION      PROJECTADVISORY COUNCIL
                                                                 I D W B (FGW
                                                        I                                                       I


                            IDBTECHNICAL DIVISION




                                                                                       ADMINISTRATIVE8
                                                                                    FINANCIALDIVISION(FGS3)



                                                            SUB-DIVISIONFOR             SUB-DivisionFOR             SUBDIVISION FOR
                          ACCOUNTING (FGS2)                                                                         OIAPWUE (FGSZ)



                                                             SUB-DivisionFOR           SUB-DIVISIONFOR               SUBDiwsion FOR
    SOLIDWASTE(FGS-2)      FINANCE (FGS-2)                                          MONlTORiNG8 EVALUATION        LARANJAL00 JAR1 (FGS2)

                                                                                                               1
                           SJB-DBVISOk FOR                   SUE-DIVISIONFOR     II    SUB-DIVISIONFOR               SUBDwion
                                                                                                                      AMAPA (FGS2)FOR
    ENVIRONMENT(FGS2)     PRCCUREMENT(FGS-2)               SUB-PROJECTSIFGS.2)        PROCUREMENT (FGS2)
                                                   ~   ~
I-'                                            I

     SUBDlVlSiON FOR                                                                                                 SUBDlVlSiON FOR
     DRAINAGE(FGS2)    I                                  CAPACITY-BUILDING(FGS2)                                    WP-STN (FGS2)



                                                                                                                     SUBDIVISION FOR
        MUNICIPAL                                                                                                  PORT0 GRANDE(FGSZ)
   COORDINATION(SEPLAN)
         (FGS2)




                                                                 - 88 -

                Additional Annex 13: Special Groups InclusionStrategy
                        BRAZIL:Amapa SustainableCommunities

1.Introduction

1.1Project's OverallStrategy

The key elements of the project's social strategy are: (a) broadly disseminating the project, its guiding
principles, objectives and methodology to facilitate access to the project by all its potential beneficiaries;
(b) targeting investments inpoorer communities; (c) mobilizing all social segments of localcommunities
in participatory processes of assessment and diagnosis of problems, prioritization and planning for
community investments; (d) screening of potential community subprojects by deliberative bodies that
include civil society representation; (e) emphasizing integrated economically,                 socially and
environmentally sustainable solutions to problems; (9 mobilizing and acknowledging the value o f local
resources and knowledge; and (g) usingparticipatory mechanisms for planning, prioritization, selection,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation of subprojects.

Participation o f poor rural and urban populations will take place at two levels. At the local level,
communities will be engaged in the identification and prioritization o f problems leading to the
preparation and implementation of community development plans. At supra-local level, beneficiaries will
be broadly represented in deliberative bodies with regard to community priorities and to ensure social
control o fproject implementation.

There will be project deliberative bodies at the municipal and state levels. Inrural areas, prioritization of
sub-project proposals will be carried out by Municipal Development Fora (MDFs) that had begun to be
established as part of the process o f implementing the Integrated and Sustainable Local Development
Program (DLIS) that has been part o f the federal Active Community program. Since a preinvestment
study indicated that some MDFsremainincipient, the project (under Component 4) will support boththe
establishment and strengthening of MDFs. Inurban areas, prioritization will be done by neighborhood
associations; in unorganized neighborhoods, the project will facilitate creation o f legally-constituted
associations. At the state level, approval of sub-project proposals will be camed out by the PAC
(Project Advisory Council), a project oversight entity to be created with the broad participation o f
organized civil society.

1.2 Strategies for SpecialPopulations

Among the poor population o f AmapB, the project will further target four special social groups which
are: (i)indigenous populations; (ii)quilombola communities; (iii)  women; and (iv) youth.

It is estimated that 10% of resources allocated to Components 1 and 3 will be earmarked for special
populations. In general, the same basic guidelines o f the project's overall strategy will be used with
regardto specialpopulations. However, the project strategy will be fine-tuned and adjusted to ensure the
appropriate inclusion and participation o f special populations as well as to ensure the consideration and
selection of their planning and subprojects take into consideration unique features of their social,
economic and political organization, cultural identities, and especially characteristics of their social
relations with other segments o fthe local and municipalpopulation.

This annex describesindetail the proposedadjustments to project strategy to ensure the appropriate and



                                                 - a9 -

adequateinclusion and participation of specialpopulations inthe project. It i s basedon botha secondary
data analysis as well as two series of targeted consultations with these groups as well as with relevant
governmental agencies andNGOs.

In July 2002, participatory research and consultations were carried out with women's groups,
quilombola leaders, indigenous representatives,NGOs, and relevant academic specialists. Objectives of
this phase included: (a) a rapid assessment of the current status of the four groups, their levels of
organization(s) and levels of representation in government agencies; (b) a mapping of institutions and
organizations working with them and the characteristics o f existingprograms andprojects; (c) collecting
secondary data; (d) initial consultations for dissemination and discussion of the project. In addition, the
project preparation team also participated in the General Assembly of the Indigenous Peoples of
Oiapoque and in the First Forum of Quilombola Communities o f h a p & describing and debating the
project and the proposal for the inclusionandparticipationo f these social groups.

InFebruary 2003, a secondseries of consultations took place with entities representing and/or working
with these social groups. Consultations were held with representatives of governmental agencies and
NGOs or other organizations working with indigenous, quilombola, gender and generational issues, and
fkther information gatheredon their situations and concerns that contributed to adjusting the project to
adequately reflect their sociocultural realities, facilitate their access to project benefits; and ensure their
adequate and appropriate participationinthe project's deliberative and social control bodies.

The proposed strategy for the participation of these special social groups takes into consideration: (i)
identified tensions between these populations and the larger society at the local, regional and state level
(especially relevant for the case of indigenous and quilombola populations); (2) risks that their priorities
might not be sufficiently considered and represented by grassroots organizations of the communities
where they reside (especially relevant for women's groups and youth, traditionally less organized in
rural areas); (3) risks that their priorities would not be sufficiently considered by the Municipal
Development Forums; and (4) differences in their situations with respect to inclusion in local society,
their capacity for organization and representation inrelation to government agencies, and their capacity
for effective participationinlocal decision-making arenas and processes.

Hence, the option selected i s to further refine the project strategy to facilitate the inclusion and
participation of indigenous and quilombola populations, and to utilize the project's overall strategy to
target rural and urban poor women and youth. All four social groups will be appropriately represented
inthe Project Advisory Council (PAC). The strengthening ofthe PACto serve as anarenaofdiscussion
on public policies with broad participationby civil society representatives will constitute an additional
project benefit.

Given the project objectives ofpoverty reduction and improvedmanagementand conservation o f natural
resources, project principles of inclusion and participation, and the additional measures to ensure
adequate and appropriate targeting, access and participation of special populations in the project, it i s
not expected that the project will have negative impacts, a priory, on the indigenous populations,
quilombola communities, women or youth.

2. Special Social Groups

This section provides background onthe four special populations.




                                                   - 90 -

2.1. Indigenouspopulations

Amaph's indigenous population consists o f 6,129 people including the Galibi, Karipuna, Kaxuyana,
Palikur, Tiriyb, Wayana-Aparai and WayZpi peoples; that of neighboring northern Parh totals 1,476
people including the Wayana-Aparai, Tiriyb, Kaxuyana and WayZpi. Indigenous people comprise about
1.3% o f the Amaph's population and 11.7% of its rural population. Their areas in Amaph include: the
Galibi Indigenous Land, the Juminii Indigenous Land, and the Uaqh Indigenous Land (in the
municipality o f Oiapoque) and the WayZpi Indigenous Land (in the municipalities o f Laranjal do Jari
and Pedra Branca do Amapari). In addition, Amaph is also the reference point for indigenous
populations o f the Tumucumaque Complex (Tumucumaque Indigenous Park and Paru D'Este
Indigenous Land) locatedinParh. All the aforementioned indigenous lands, comprising 459,06 1hectares
inAmaph and4,266,852 hectares inParh, havebeenregularized.

Despite their diversity, the indigenous peoples share some common features, historical experiences and
pressures, including:

         (i)Traditional adaptativesubsistencesystems ofmixedhorticulture, fishing, huntingand
        gathering -based on forest resources.
         (ii)Tendency towards scattered, itinerant settlement patterns, related to their environmental
         adaptation and sociocultural organization.
         (iii) concentrationofsomeoftheirpopulationinlimitedareasduetoconcentrationof
              Partial
         servicesprovidedby government with a concomitant reduction inquality o f life.
         (iv) Concomitant social problems, deriving from the introduction of activities that involve
         individual employment, for example, intra-group conflicts (among youth and the elderly, or
        between men's and women's views), the increase inthe consumption o f alcoholic beverages and
        the proliferation o f sexually transmitted diseases.
        (v) Pressures from other interest groups and particularly gold prospectors, as well as expansion
        o f the agricultural frontier along the NorthernPerimeter (BR-156) and feeder roads.
         (vi) Particularly over the past decade, more organizing by indigenous people, toward the
         establishment ofparticipatory decision-making mechanismsand the formation o f instruments for
         the representationand defense o f interestsbefore regional society and government agencies.

The objective of this section i s to briefly describe the indigenous ethnic groups that occupy the
indigenous areas in Amaph and Northern Par6 and have Amaph as a point of reference. It was decided
to describe the three areas where they are concentrated and which will serve, under the proposed
strategy, as territorial units for the planning o f actions to be implemented by the project: the
Tumucumaque Complex, the Oiapoque Indigenous Lands and the WayZpi Indigenous Land.

Tumucumaque Complex

The Tumucumaque Complex consists of two adjoining indigenous lands: the Tumucumaque Indigenous
Park (3.1 million hectares) and the Rio Paru d'Este Indigenous Land (1.2 million hectares). The only
means of accessto the area -which is characterized by relative isolation - i s by airplane. The principal
pressure that threatens social and environmental integrity inthe Tumucumaque Complex are the mining
and gold prospecting activities carried out on the Jari and Pam d'Este rivers. The presence o f gold
prospectors only occurs south o f the Tumucumaque Indigenous Park and there has been not yet been
advancesby the extractive, grazing or agricultural frontiers intheir lands.



                                                   - 91 -

The Complex's current ethnic composition includes four principal ethnic groups: Wayana-Aparai,
Tiriyb, Kaxuyana and WayZpi. The groups are distributed among 41 villages totaling about 1,300
inhabitants (1). These groups predominantly speak the Carib language but their origins are different.
Traditionally, the indigenous peoples of Tumucumaque practice a seasonal subsistence economy based
on hunting, fishing, gathering and agriculture.

Traditionally as well, the social structure of the Tumucumaque Complex peoples was characterized by
distribution in small villages, formed o f domestic/productive groups, led by founders and chiefs,
characterizedby uxorilocal residence. Villages remained scattered, politically autonomous, but linkedby
ties o f kinship, trade and cooperation networks (matrimonial, goods and rituals). Their scattered location
and size constituted mechanismsof adaptationto the environment that ensured a satisfactory subsistence
and sustainability of the naturalresources.

Their social structure, settlement and subsistence patterns were significantly transformed in the 1960s
due to a more sedentary lifestyle, concentration and growth of the population near assistance posts
(primarily at the Tiriyb Mission on the Paru d'Oeste River and the Apalai village in Paru d'Este) and
greater dependency on wage-earning activities. After several decades, population growth, a sedentary
lifestyle, and inadequate selection o f locations for assistance posts in relation to the traditional living
patterns of indigenous groups, also causedproblems - such as soil depletion and poor hunting- which
has contributed to the more recent gradual return to the traditional pattern o f scattered, decentralized
settlements.New villages are being formed(an investment supportedby the Indigenous Lands Project, in
1999, enabled the formation of 6 new villages) in locations selected to try to reconcile the traditional
pattern o f village composition and size with access to assistance, communication, consumer goods and
paidlabor.

Oiauoaue Indigenous Lands

The Oiapoque area includes three indigenous areas - Uaqh, Galibi and JuminZ - totaling 518,000
hectares. The population i s estimated at 5,249 people distributed among 37 villages, with greater
concentration in the villages of KumarumZ (1,821 people), Kumen6 (660 people), Manga (560 people)
and Espirito Santo (405 people) (2). These lands are home to the Galibi o f Oiapoque, Galibi-Mamorno,
Karipuna and Palikur peoples.


The Galibi of Oiapoque are estimated at 28 people in one village in the Galibi Lands (6,689 ha.). The
Galibi-Marworno inhabit the vast savannas and flooded fields o f northern Amaph and come from
ethnically diverse populations - AruZ, Maraon, Karipuna, Galibi and even non-Indians. They live
primarily in the village o f Kumarumz in the Uaqh Indigenous Land (470,000 ha.); population
concentration i s related to the existence of a school but village growth has also contributed to localized
deforestation, distant garden sites, shortages of drinking water and poor sanitation and waste disposal
conditions (3).

The Karipuna (4), with a population o f about 1,708, live to the north and west o f the Uaqh basin,
coincidingwith the reserve's boundary on the left bank of the Curipi River. As they are located closer to
the regional centers o f Oiapoque, they were the first ones affected by penetrations of outsiders and
economic interests inthe region and they have regular contactswith the regionalpopulation (commercial
transactions, temporary labor, etc.) (5). Finally, the Palikur who speak an Arawak language (Pa'ikwaki)
are estimated at 918people and live insmall villages distributed along the UrukauhRiver, a tributary on
the left bank ofthe UaqhRiver.


                                                  - 92 -

Indigenous peoples in the Oiapoque region began to be contacted as early as 1919 by the Brazilian
national Indian agency at the time, SPI, which openedthe first school in 1934, set up a post in 1943, and
carried out activities that altered leadership pattems and social organization and introduced new
economic activities. These in turn contributed to concentration o f the population, thus contributing to
further underminingthe traditional way o f life and adaptative subsistencesystem, promoting dependency
on outside elements and generating social and environmental problems that reduced their quality o f life
and today constitute their major concerns.


The Oiapoque peoples have similar characteristics with regard to social and political organization.
Traditionally, they lived in small, scattered villages formed by an extended household, led by the
household head, characterized by uxorilocal residence, with numerous inter-village linkages. Their
traditional subsistence system was mainly seasonal horticulture, fishing, and hunting and gathering.
Today these are supplemented by some income generated by sale o f surplus such as manioc flour,
handicrafis and canoes, as well as retirement pensions.

Today, they tend more to live in larger villages near assistance posts. Their political organization was
altered by a leadership system introduced by SPI in the 1930s, however more recently they have been
involved in a process of intense organizing and articulation among villages designed to improve their
representation to the outside. Since the 1970s, the Brazilian Indian Foundation (FUNAI) and the
Indigenist Missionary Council (CIMI) have been active, helping to get the lands demarcated,
participating in the unsuccessful struggle to keep highway BR-156 from cutting through the indigenous
area, and facilitating the indigenous political organizations. Inthe 1990s, the Association of Indigenous
Peoples o f Oiapoque (APIO) was formed, and in the 1996, a Galibi-Mamomo indigenous person was
elected as the mayor of the municipality o f Oiapoque.Nowadays, the Oiapoque villages select a chief to
representthem, and inlarger villages, the populationalso selects a vice-chief and a council comprised o f
older men to represent them. Any decisions that affect the village are discussed at meetings with the
entire community, in which anyone can speak; the leaders act as village representatives at regional
indigenous assemblies or in any event outside the scope of the villages. Incontrast, among the Pulikur,
since the 1970s the leadershipexercisedby the pastor and the workers on those who frequent the church
surpassed that o f the chief and the council. Likewise, the participation o f the Pulikur in general
assembliesofthe indigenous peoples of Uaqiimay be described as timidandthey invariably complain of
not being heard and not having their demands met. The Pulikur refuse, purposely and for religious
reasons, to participate inthe network o f sociability engenderedby the assembly.

Recent results of collective political organizing can be seen in decisions made on issues o f common
interest to the indigenous groups, including, among others, decisions: prohibiting the sale o f timber,
prohibiting the sale o f fish and wild game outside the indigenous lands, implementing seasonal fishing
restrictions on certain species, andbanning on alligator hunting.Inaddition, APIO has established more
partnerships with state govenunent agencies and NGOs, and in2000-2001 participatedinseminars that
culminated in the preparation of an Environmental Management Plan for the Oiapoque Indigenous
Lands (6).

W a i b i Indigenous Land(7J

Waygpi is the term utilized for the approximately 580 indigenous people who speak this Tupi language,
originally from the lower Xingu River, who have lived for the past 250 years in the region bordered by
the Oiapoque, Jari and Araguari rivers in h a p & As contrasted with Amapii's other indigenous
populations, the Waizpi did not experience demographic, cultural or territorial crises because, despite
sporadic contacts with outsiders, they lived in relative isolation until 1973. Since the early 1970s,


                                                  - 93 -

however, this situation has begunto change, due to invasions fiom gold prospectors, pressuresrelatedto
disorderly colonization near the new Northern Perimeter Highway (8), interest o f colonists and sawmill
owners intheir natural resources, epidemics and partial environmental degradation o f their lands.

FUNAI established a contact post in the WaiTipi Indigenous Lands in 1973 ostensibly to help protect
them fiom impacts of the highway construction. This post contributed to population concentration and
increased dependency, as well as facilitating the invasion of goldminers. These invasions were only
contained when, during the process of demarcating their area, the WayTipi themselves decided to
re-establish their traditional dispersedsettlements patterns, and began to carry out activities to expel the
invadingprospectors and to control the boundaries o ftheir territory.

The WayTipi Indigenous Land i s 607,000 hectares characterized by high biodiversity. The WaiTipi's
relationship with their environment i s extremely complex. They utilize and modify diverse
micro-environments to carry out their livelihood activities -primarily swidden horticulture, fishing and
hunting and gathering. Their traditional practices of periodically moving the locations of gardens and
villages i s key to their environmental adaptation, ensures an abundant livelihood, facilitates social and
cultural reproduction, and protects the biodiversity. Villages composed o f extended families are also not
constant incomposition with considerable fusion and fissioning o f groups and individuals.

Dispersion and mobility contribute to a world view marked by respect and appreciation for family and
personal autonomy. This respect constitutes the basic strategy for resolving multiple intra-group
tensions in matters such as marriage transactions, occupation and use o f hunting trails, gardens, and
accusations of shamanistic aggression. Today, some WaiTipi are remaining inthe old villages alongside
the highway where easier access to basic services provided by assistance agencies is counterbalanced by
the depletion o f hunting and soils, impoverishment and reduced quality o f life as well as greater
dependency on wage-eaming. Other families, however, want to reverse this scenario of a sedentary
existence with greater dependency and are returning to a more scattered and itinerant settlement pattern
thus improvingtheir quality oflife andcontributingto protecting their lands.

Since the 1970s, the WayTipibegan to carry out aluvial goldprospecting (inareas previously worked by
invaders and in-between other tasks) and handicraft production (a FUNAI incentive and carried out by
families) as productive activities for income generation for their needs for manufactured items such as
cloth, pots and guns. However, subsistenceproduction - together with agriculture, hunting, fishing and
gathering- continuesto supply the community's needs.

The WayTipi produce more than they need - ensuring plentiful food and excluding any possibility of
shortage - and although they have been engaged for two decades in a process that combines the
diversification of their productive activity and the acquisition and daily use o f various manufactured
goods, their family consumption pattern has remained stable, with few families acquiring manufactured
foods. However, if needs for merchandise and market services are still modest, there is always the
possibility that these needs will grow induced by various factors such as invasions, greater contact with
regional society, introductiono fmanufactureditems, wage labor andthe like.

In response to these such needs, the WayTipi have, until now, rejected the predatory alternatives of
non-sustainable economic activities, resisted FUNAI's various attempts to increase their agricultural
productionby means o f collective farm plots or casus defurinhu, and opted to increase the profitability
of the types of extractivism they already practice - which are adequate at family scale and may be
carried out during the cycle o f movement that all families carry out - and by the production o f
handicrafts and trying to improve marketing.


                                                 - 94 -

2.2. QuilomboZa Communities

Quilombolas or remanescescentesdo quilombos are communities that representthe remainingmembers
o f the run-away slave communities from the colonial period inBrazil. Quilombolas, as they prefer to be
called, refer to the descendants o f the run-away slaves as well as to the rural black communities who
remained on lands given to them by former slave owners. There i s a lack o f a precise social science
definition o f quilombolas other than that of a community of slave descendants who identify themselves
as quilombolas basedon a sharedhistory of resistanceand a common heritage. These people o f African
decent have maintainedsociocultural distinctiveness inthe practice o f their unique lifestyles and sharing
o f a common territory. Livingprimarily from subsistence agriculture, fishing and huntingandgathering,
they have remainedlargely marginalized from the larger Brazilian society, are generally extremely poor,
and usually have little access to health, education, landregularization or other services.

Specific data on the Amapb quilombola communities is, however, scarce. The 2000 Demographic
Census classifies Amaph's population as being 28.8% "white,"          3.4% "black" and 67.8% "brown."
There are historical references, for example, notingthe existence o f quilombos inthe territory o f Amapi
since 18th century after slaves were first brought there to construct the fortress o f SHo Jose de Macapi.
In h a p & despite the Constitutional mandate to title quilombola community lands, only one
community, Quilombo Curia& located on the outskirts Macapi, has been fully regularized and received
title.

The process for identifying other communities i s still incipient, however, representatives of 16 (out of an
estimated total o f 23) quilombola communities o f the regions o f Macaph and Mazaggo met in 2003 in
the First Forum o f Quilombola Communities o f Amapi, including: Carviio, Mazaggo Velho, Port0 do
Cku, CoraqHo, Lagoa dos fndios, Macacoari, Retiro do Santo Anthio, Santo AntGnio da Pedreira,
Alegre, Me1da Pedreira, Ressaca da Pedreira, Mata Fome, Casa Grande, Cavalo, SHo Pedro dos Bois,
Ambk, IgarapC do Lago, Maruanum, Areal do Matapi, TorrHo do Matapi, Campina Grande, Ilha
Redonda, and Curralinho.

Extrapolating from data from Quilombo Curia& it is noted that the group strongly identifies with their
territories and practice Amazonian peasant family subsistence systems o f swidden horticulture, fishing,
hunting and gathering as well as animal husbandry. Income is generated by the sale of surplus
production and wage labor. They are also characterized by a folk Catholicism with African elements.
Traditionally, they were led by a respected elder responsible for internal and external representation,
however, to improve their representation to the outside society, today they have formed Residents'
Associations that are primarily for interaction inexternal forums.

 2.3. WomenandYouth

Census data indicate that in2002, 28.9 percent of all households inAmapi were headedbe females, an
increase o f nearly 55.0 percent in comparison to data from 1991. Thus Amapi ranks as the state with
the highest proportion o f female heads o f householdsamong all states inthe northernregion, and third in
Brazil overall. Macapi itself has 33.3 percent female-headed households, and there i s a similar
correlation between urbanization and increased female-headed households elsewhere. In addition, 37.6
percent o f households headedby the elderly are women. And almost a quarter o f young children live in
female-headed households. It is also expected that there is a positive correlation between poverty and
female-headed households. In rural areas, women represent nearly 37 percent of people classified as


                                                  - 95 -

engagedinagricultural activities (9).

Consultations duringproject preparation indicate that the difficulties faced by rural women are greater
than those experienced by urban women living in urban areas. However, all women face major
difficulties with regardto:


0     Illiteracy and lack of access to education.
0     Low skills and qualifications andrelatedunemployment levels and wage discrimination.
0     Domestic violence against women and lack o f awareness by women about their rights.

For rural women in rural areas, there are two other important issues. The first i s inadequate access to
basic health care, especially with regard to reproductive health. And the second i s less participation in
public forums which i s related to continual domestic duties, lower levels of education, and traditional
views o f gender roles that are even more accentuated in rural areas. However, due to recent growth in
the number o fwomen's associations, the social visibility o f gender issues has been highlighted.

With regard to youth in Amaph, available data is even more scarce. Contacts made during project
preparation suggest both organizing challenges faced by the state's youth as well as the relative inability
o f their organizations to gain recognition and visibility. Apart from the main entity in the state most
widely recognized as being representative of generation issues - AMAJUVE - which maintains a
partnership with the state's Special Youth Advisory Office, other NGOs activities inthis area are quite
limited, with the exceptions of the Pastoral Youth Office (linked to the Catholic Church) and the
Network o f School and Family Associations of Amaph (RAEFAP). In addition, initiatives by state
agencies aimedat youth have beenconcentratedinthen larger urban centers and hence are more focused
on relevant problems there such as sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), urban violence and the
formation of organized street gangs. Major limitations, both in terms of human and financial resources,
hinder state efforts among youth inrural areas.

Recent census information reveals, however, the large concentration of Amaph's population in younger
age brackets. Nearly 51.4% o f Amaph's population i s younger than 19 years old. Data from the
agricultural census (1995-1996) showed that a high proportion o f Amaph's economically active rural
population engagedinagricultural activities i s comprised of youth under the age o f 14years old. Almost
4,000 children under the age o f 14 were involved inrural activities inAmaph representing 23.3 percent
o f all people involved inthe state's rural activities. Nearly 33 percent of these young people involved in
agricultural activities worked on family farms classified as low-income or subsistence level (10). Two
thirds of all the rural working children under 14 are found in four municipalities - MacapS, Mazaggo,
Oiapoque and PedraBranca do Amapari.

3. ImplementationArrangements

Numerous government agencies, autonomous agencies and non-governmental organizations will be
directly or indirectly involved inthe implementation of the Amaph SustainableCommunities Project. As
noted previously, ADAP, MAP, RURAP, the Municipal Forums for Sustainable Development, the
Project Advisory Council and community and neighborhood organizations will be directly involved in
the general coordination, administration andprovision o ftechnical assistance under the project.

The Project Coordination Unit(PCU) will be based inthe Amaph Development Agency (ADAP)and its
functions will include, among others: coordinating and supervising project implementation; financial



                                                    - 96 -

management; monitoring and evaluation; dissemination and training o f partner institutions; linkages to
MDFs and supportto the PAC.

The Project Advisory Council (PAC) will be formed by the Director-President o f AD@, the General
Coordinator o f the Project and representatives o f the Secretariat of Government, the Secretariat of
Integrated Municipal Development, the State Secretariat o f Environment, AGEMP, AFAP, RURAP,
IBAMA, SEBRAE and representatives of Amapi's civil society organizations, including entities
representative o f indigenous populations, o f quilombola communities, and o f women's and youth
movements, selected by their peers. It will meet on a quarterly basis and be responsible for: (a)
strengthening linkage and integration at operational level of partner institutions; (b) suggesting strategic
actions aiming at proper implementation of components; (c) monitoring local processesfor diagnostic of
the reality, identification of priorities and planning o f activities, overseeing the adjustment o f proposed
activities to the basic principles o f sustainable development and especially (with regardto special social
groups) the inclusion o f gender and generation issues inthe agenda of discussions and priorities o f each
forum established to deliberate the actions to be implemented by the project; (d) canying out project
monitoring and evaluation; and (e) establishing a special arena to exercise social control over project
implementation. In addition, with regard to indigenous populations and quilombola communities, the
PAC constitutes the major authority for the analysis and approval o f the Sustainable Investment Plan
(SIPS) for Indigenouspeoples and quilombola communities (More details on the PAC to be includedthe
Project Operational Manual).

The already existing authorities o f liaison, decision-making and representation o f AmapL's indigenous
populations, whose efforts will be respected and strengthened by the project, include: (1) internal
meetings or assemblies that occur in each o f the Indigenous Lands, where the chiefs o f the various
villages meet and deliberate on local issues; and (2) the associations formed by indigenous populations
as representatives of their interests before the encompassing society. There are five indigenous
associations in the State of Amaph: the Association of Indigenous Peoples o f Tumucumaque Park
(APITU), the Association of Indigenous Peoples of Oiapoque (APIO), the Galibi-Marworno
Association, and the Council of Waygpi Apina Villages and the Association o f Wajgpi Indigenous
Peoples of the Amapari Triangle (APIWATA). The PCU will coordinate with these entities and
authorities on the organization o f seminars for preparation o f Sustainable Investment Plans in
indigenous territories.

With regard to nascent forms of collective organization of Amapi's quilombola communities, it should
be mentioned that, during the First Forum o f Amapi's Quilombo Remnant Communities, held in
February 2003 in the quilombola community o f Curia& representativeso f 16 quilombola communities
o f the Macapi and Mazaggo region decided to form the Council o f Quilombola Communities o f Amapi
as an instrument to defend and represent their mutual interests. In the strategy proposed for the
participation o f quilombola communities, this Council will constitute the project partner in the
organization and coordination o f one or more seminars for the preparation o f the Sustainable Investment
Plans for quilombola communities.

With regard to the gender issue, during the pre-investment phase, the existence o f a network of around
100 entities representing women, operating in the State o f Amapi, was identified. These community
entities are mostly concentrated in the city of Macaph. O f these, five should be mentioned due to the
extent of the area where they operate. These are: the Institute of Black Women o f Amaph (IMENA),the
Federation of Women of Amaph (FEMEA), the Liaison o f Women o f AmapL (AMA), the Federation of
RuralWorking Women of Amapi and the Association o f Traditional Midwives o f Oiapoque.



                                                   - 97 -

Among special social groups, youth have the greatest difficulties in organizing entities that are
legitimately representative of their interests. Information proved by the state Special Youth Advisory
Office suggests the proliferation of small groups o f youth practicing highly specific sports and cultural
activities. Information from diverse local actors indicates that the principal entity working with
Macaph's youth (AMAJUVE) was dismantled at the end o f 2002, and it was not possible to locate any
member o f its board o f directors. The remaining non-governmental entities with broad scope are: the
Network o fFamily and School Associations ofAmapi (RAEFAP)and the Pastoral Youth Office.

The implementation of the strategy of inclusion and participation o f indigenous populations,
quilombolas, women and youth in the project also points to the need for partnerships o f support and
collaboration with an array of other government agencies and non-governmental organizations. At the
government level, the institutions whose support and collaboration are essential in light o f their specific
responsibilities in relation to Special Social Groups are: the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI), the
National Health Foundation (FUNASA), the Palmares Cultural Foundation (FCP), the Nucleus of
Indigenous Education (NEI) of the State Secretariat of Education and Sports, the State Secretariat o f
Health, the State Secretariat o f Industry and Commerce, AGEMP and the Special Youth Advisory
Office. At civil society level, a broad array of non-governmental agencies in the State o f h a p a is
carrying out work with indigenous populations, the black population, quilombolas, women andyouth in
m a l and urban areas. These non-governmental organizations include institutions that are working with
indigenous populations and youth the IndigenistMissionary Council, the Lndigenist Labor Center, the
Indigenous History and of IndigenismBureau o f the University of Sgo Paulo, the Institute o f Research
andTraining inIndigenous Education, the Amazon ConservationTeam andThe NatureConservancy.

Throughout project preparation, contacts and consultations were held with these diverse entities. The
strategies proposed for the inclusion and participation o f these four specific social groups incorporate
their knowledge and suggestions. Duringproject preparation, consultations were also heldwith various
entities representing indigenous populations, the black population and quilombola communities, women
and youth. The proposed strategies also incorporate their suggestions and reflect their capacity to
operate and representthe interests ofthese social groups.

5. Strategy for the Participationof SocialMinoritiesinthe Project

5.1 The Current Scenario

The research and consultations carried out during preparation (see section 1.2 for more details on the
consultations) revealed differences among the four targeted special populations with respect to their
situations; concerns; organizations; and relations with the larger society, which are outlinedbelow.

Indigenous Populations. Due largely to increasedsedentarization, wage earning, dependency on external
assistance, and external economic pressures on their natural resources (e.g., timbering, mining, etc.),
most indigenous people in the state are increasingly experiencing social, economic and environmental
problems including, among others: abandonment o f their traditional adaptations, reduced quality o f life
due to depletion and degradation o f natural resources, impoverishment; internal conflicts as well as
conflicts betweengenerations; alcoholism; and sexually transmitted diseases.

At the same time, indigenous people inAmapa have: (i)      strengthened their organizations particularly in
relationto the larger society; (ii)
                                 improved their access and communication with state and federal entities
whose policies affect them; (iii)  become increasingly critical o f the sociocultural, environmental and
economic sustainability of interventions and assistance provided to them by governmental and

non-governmental organizations; and(iv) camed out various initiatives for planning their own integrated
action proposals for indigenous lands, characterized by participation, traditional knowledge (e.g.,
environmental surveys, ethnographic studies, ethno-ecological maps, etc.). Due to these factors, and in
part because their lands are demarcated, Amapb's indigenous population has generally received more
external support and benefits thanthe majority o fpoor rural non-indigenous population.

Ouilombola communities. In general, the tenure security, organizational level and access to public
services o f quilombola communities inAmapb is considerably less than that o f indigenous populations.
Their lands have not been regularized except in one case. The process o f organizing and raising
awareness inthe majority of communities is still at an early stage. The lack of land security makes these
communities more vulnerable and impedes investments. The recent event o f the First Forum o f
Quilombola Communities of h a p 6 and their decision to form a council to articulate and represent
themselves i s an important advance toward strengthening their capacity to represent themselves more
effectively.

Women and Youth. Although information on women and youth in rural areas is scarce, one may
preliminarily conclude that women and youth constitute a significant part of agricultural labor (males
under age 14 and women totaled nearly 50% o f people working inthe 1995-1996 agricultural year) with
concentrations on poorer farms (males and females under age 14 represented, in the same agricultural
year, around 33% o f labor on poorer family farms). In urban areas, there are a large number of
female-headed households with young children. While they lack specific organizations, their
expectations and priorities are reflected to some extent inthe agendas o f existing grassroots community
organizations.

5.2 Challengesto be faced during project implementation and mitigating measures

Indigenous Populations.     Major challenges with respect to the project strategy for working with
indigenous population include avoiding interventions that: (i) culturally or socially inadequate; (ii)
                                                                 are
undermine or reduce the self sufficiency of traditional adaptations and hence lead to impoverishment;
(iii)insufficiently consider the need to protect and manage the natural resources; (iv) promote internal
divisions or conflicts; (v) contribute to increasing pressure from the surrounding regional society; and
(vi) use decision-making processes that pit indigenous groups directly againstnon-indigenous groups for
project resources.

To address these challenges, the project will use a participatory methodology to ensure that indigenous
subprojects reflect community priorities. Specifically, the action strategy includes the following
elements: (i) a process of the participatory development o f a SustainableInvestment Plan (SIP) for each
o f the state's three Indigenous Lands, to be facilitated by the PCU in collaboration with pertinent
representative organizations; (ii)   earmarking o f project resources to prioritize the implementation of
indigenous SIPs; (iii) the use o f a Special Groups Sub-committee o f the Project Advisory Council as the
screening and decision-making body (rather than Municipal Development Forums) for indigenous SIPs;
(iv) the adoption of clear criteria to assess the environmental and cultural suitability o f proposals, to
block approval of proposals that could increase sedentarization and unsustainable environmental
pressures (within and around indigenous lands) and facilitate approval o f proposals aimed at mitigating
the negative social, economic and environmental impacts causedby these pressures.

Ouilombola Communities. The principal challenges for the project with respect to the quilombola
communities include, among others: (i)    their apparently reduced capacity to represent and defend their
interests in competitive processes of resource allocation, if decisions are made at municipal level; (ii)


                                                 - 99 -

legal problems stemming from the absence of land titling, faced by most o f these communities; and (iii)
an apparently traditional tendency to exclude women from the collective decision-making process at
community level.

To address these challenges, the project strategy includes: (i)processo f the participatory development
                                                              a
of a Sustainable InvestmentPlan (SIP) for each of the state's quilombola communities, to be facilitated
by the PCU in collaboration with existing pertinent representative organizations; (ii)      earmarking o f
project resources to prioritize the implementation of quilombola SIPs; and (iii)     the use of a Special
Groups Sub-committee of the Project Advisory Council as the screening and decision-making body
(rather than MunicipalDevelopment Forums) for quilombola SIPS.

Women and Youth. There appear to be two main challenges to be addressedwith regardto interventions
among women and youth o f poor rural and urban communities. One i s to ensure that existing
governmental and nongovernmental organizations adequately and effectively represent their concerns
and priorities. The second i s to expand the spheres in which women and youth participate effectively
within their communities inthe discussions andpriority setting exerciseswhich would also help to avoid
project-sponsored interventions from contributing towards segmenting the community and segregating
these two social groups.

To address these challenges, the project strategy includes: (i)
                                                              the promotion o f the inclusion o fpertinent
representative organizations and women and youth at local participatory planning events; (ii)           the
promotionof the discussiono f gender and generation issues at events for local diagnosis, actionplanning
and prioritizing exercises; (iii)ensuring the representation of entities representing women and youth in
both Municipal Development Forums and on the Project Advisory Council; and (iv) giving priority to
urbanandrural sub-projectsthat involve andbenefit women and adolescents.

5.3 Strategiesfor the Inclusion of Special SocialGroups

Participation in the project of indigenous populations, quilombola communities, women and youth and
their pertinent organizations will be structured in four ways: (i)    as potential beneficiaries o f project
activities and subprojects for which funds have been earmarked; (ii)        as protagonists in the project
diagnostic, prioritization and action planning activities;        (iii)via representation on project
decision-making bodies; and (iv) via representation on the Project Advisory Council for deliberative,
oversight and social control functions. As statedabove, specific project strategieshave been refinedwith
respect to eachtarget specialpopulation. Other project principles includethe following:


0     Community orientation o f subproject prioritization.
0     Broadprior dissemination o fthe project inlanguages accessibleto localpopulations.
0     Stimulation of broad, democratic participation o f local populations - and especially o f poor
populations and       of eachcommunity's most vulnerable segments- indecision-making processes.
0     Respectand appreciation for local knowledge.
0     Community responsibility for the sustainablemedium- and long-term operation o f subprojects.
0     Attention to and adoption o f environmental protectionand conservation measures.     1


0     Adjustment o f technical assistance and training processes for the operation of subprojects in
accordance            with the locally available human resourceandcultural capacity.

5.3.1 Strategy for the Inclusion and ParticipationofIndigenous Populations




                                                - 100-

Indigenous populations will participate effectively in the project as protagonists in the participatory
process o f preparing Sustainable Investment Plans (SIPs) in their territories and as members of the
Project Advisory Council. There will be two decision-making spheres for indigenous SIPs and related
subprojects.


0     First, the assemblieso findigenous peopleswill be held, intheir lands, by the Project Coordination
Unit to participate in seminars for the preparation of Sustainable Investment Plans for indigenous
territories - involving the diagnostic of the local situation; identification o f problems, prioritization and
selection of subprojects to be submitted to the project and o f technical assistance providers to be hired to
prepare and monitor subproject execution.


0     Second, a Special Groups Subcommittee of the Project Advisory Council, which will include
representatives o f Amapit's indigenous peoples will evaluate usingpreviously agreed technical criteria:
(i) submittedsubprojectproposalsinthecontextoftheSIPs;and(ii) institutionalcapacityofthe
   the                                                                       the
technical assistanceproviders proposedto prepareand monitor subproject execution.

The procedures for preparing and approving sub-projects for indigenous groups i s detailed in the
flowchart below.

5.3.2 Strategy for the InclusionandParticipationof Quilombola Communities:

Quilombola communities will participate effectively in the project as protagonists in the participatory
process o f preparing Sustainable Investment Plans (SIPs) for their communities and as members of the
Project Advisory Council. There will be two decision-making spheres for quilombola SIPs and related
subprojects.


0     First, one or more seminars for the preparation of the Sustainable Investment Plans (SIPs) for
quilombola communities will to be promoted and coordinated by the PCU with the participation of the
largest possible number of quilombola communities (with or without regularized lands) in the State -
involving diagnostics of local situations; the identification o f their problems, prioritization and selection
of subprojects to be submitted to the project and of technical assistance providers to be hired to prepare
and monitor subproject execution.


0     Second, a Special Groups Subcommittee o f the PAC, which will include representatives o f
AmapL's quilombola communities will evaluate using previously agreed criteria: (i)the submitted
subproject proposals in the context of the SIPs; and (ii) institutional capacity o f technical assistance
                                                           the
entities selectedto prepare and monitor subproject execution.

The procedures for preparing and approving sub-projects for quilombos is detailed in the flowchart
below.




                                                 - 101  -

                  Flowchartfor PreparingIndigenousand OuilomboRuralSub-proiects

StageIActor                    Indigenous or Quilombo    PCU                      Service Provider           Special Groups
                               Association                                                                   Subcommittee of PAC

1. Disseminationofproject      D) Mobilizedthrough       A) Definespriority       3) Contractedto prepare    B) Consultedaboutthe
mdmobilizationoftarget         fieldvisits by PCUstaff   areas; preparesand       mddistributedissemination  component andits
WUPS                           andtheir consultants      implements               naterial                   dissemination strategy
                                                         disseminationplan


2. Preparationofpre-proposal A) Membershipmeets to      A) Assists associations
                              prepareSustainable        with Sustainable
                              InvestmentPlanandfillout InvestmentPlanseminar
                              the pre-proposalforms     andpreparationofpre-
                                                        proposals
3.  Prioritization                                      A) Receivesprioritized
                                                        list ofpre-proposalsfrom
                                                        indigenousor quilombo
                                                        council
1. Preparationofsub-project   D) Receivesadvicefiom     A) Preparesregistryof      i) Assists associationto
proposal,includingcontracting PCUabouttypesand          qualified suppliersof     reparedetailed sub-project
o f technicalassistance       suppliersoftechnical      technicalassistance       roposal
                              assistance                B)Selectspriority pre-
                              E) Selectssupplierwith    proposalsto receive
                              assistancefrom PCU        technical assistance
                                                        C) Suggests type of
                                                        technical assistancethat
                                                        wouldhelpthe associatior
                                                        to prepareits sub-project
                                                        F) Contractstechnical
                                                        assistanceprovider on
                                                        behalf ofassociation
5. Approval ofsub-projects    A) Reviewsandapproves     C) Receivesand                                       D) Receivesproposals
                              sub-project proposal;     evaluatessub-project                                 andreviewsfrom PCU;
                              identifiescounterpart     proposals(technical,                                 final approvalof sub-
                              contributionandplan for   financial, environmental,                            projects; notifies
                              operationsandmaintenance andlegalreviews); sends                               associationsabout results
                              (ifappropriate)           proposalsandreviewsto                                andcanrequest
                              B) Sendsapproved          PCU                                                  clarifications or
                             proposalto PCU                                                                  conditions


6. Adjustments                 B) Participatesin         A) Requestsadditional
(applicable only when sub-     improvementofproposal     information from entity
projects are approvedwith      or provisionofadditional  that helpedto prepare
conditionsor when mitigating   information               the proposal
measuresare required)                                    C) Verifies that the
                                                         revisedproposal
                                                         respondsto the PCU's
                                                         requestandreturns to
                                                         step 5A
                                                                                     ~
                                                                                  step




                                                            - 102-

5.3.3 Strategiesto Dealwith Gender and Generation Issues:

The project strategy to address gender and generation issues is somewhat different and takes into
consideration the need to support the promotion of a process of including and increasing the
participation o f groups of women and/or youth in the decision-making processes that take place intheir
local contexts, trying to avoid the risk ofthe project contributing to alienate groups o f women and youth
from local decision-making processes.

Inthis regard, the participationof groups ofwomen and youth, as well as of entities representing their
interests will take place inthe ordinary processes ofproject local levelplanning actions that will occur at
community level (either inrural communities or intargetedpoor urban neighborhoods). Inthe processof
planning these actions, the PCU will try to ensure that: (i)    groups of women and youth are included in
local discussion and planning processes; (ii) entities representative o f gender and generation issues
                                                  all
working inare for which project actions are planned, participate inplanning and deliberationprocesses;
(iii)consideration of gender and generation issues is continually incorporated in the processes of (a)
diagnostics o f local situations, (b) identification and prioritization of local problems; and (c) actions to
be implemented by the project are selected and treated with priority; and (iv) sub:projects that involve
and benefit poor women and adolescentsare prioritized inthe selection process.

Entitiesrepresentinggender and generationissues willbe representedinthe Project Advisory Council.

5.4 Anticipated Benefits

Through its actions, the h a p i SustainableCommunities Project will contribute to:

1.    Strengthening the capacities of entities representing indigenous populations, quilombola
communities, rural women and youth, increasing their social visibility, training them as agencies to
representand defendthe interestsoftheir constituentsbefore government agenciesand inother fora;
2.    Buildingsocial capital and appreciation of local knowledge by involving local actors inprocesses
o f decision-making and ofpublic policy management;
3.    For indigenous people, subprojects have the potential to contribute to providing alternatives for
meetingtheir needs for social services, basic infrastructure and productive activities that are compatible
with their environmentally adequate, traditional settlement and subsistence and natural resource use
patterns;
4.    For quilombola communities, the project may support the processo f identification, recognition and
landregularization oftheir lands, organization andmobilizationoftheir communities;
5.    For women and youth, the project has the potential to promote their integration with arenas o f
discussionand decision-making on issues o f community interest;
6.    For all social groups, the project has the potential to promote improvements to the quality o f life,
reduce their vulnerability to external factors, promote the economic, social and cultural resources
existing at local level and enable the construction of sustainable systems o f subsistence and social
reproduction;
7.    For government agencies, the project has the potential to contribute to the democratization o f their
structures through the effective decentralization of the decision-making process, the intensification of
social control mechanisms, the simplificationo f their procedures and transparency of their actions.



6. Monitoringand Evaluation



                                                   - 103-

  The project monitoring and evaluation system will include both performance and impacts indicators.
  Performance indicators will evaluate the efficiency of the participatory management mechanisms
  implemented by the project (its capacity to include poor families in the processes o f planning and
  prioritization o f actions and decision-making) and the physical, financial and accounting performance of
  the project. Impact indicators will evaluate the access of populations directly benefited by the project to
  better social and productive infrastructure services, their participation in the management o f these
  services, the increase inand diversification of production, the level of indebtednesso f the individualand
  collective credit component, andthe capacity ofproject beneficiaries to adopt technical support resulting
  from the technical assistance process.

  Withregardto Special Social Groups, the monitoringand evaluation processwill take additional factors
  and indicators into account. To measure the project's effectiveness and its strategies for the participation
  of special groups, the following indicators will also be relevant:

           (a) the effective inclusion o f the specific problems of indigenous populations and quilombolas,
           and o f                 gender and generation issues inplanning and decision-making processes;
           (b) the sociocultural adjustment of investmentsmade inIndigenous Territories to ensure that the
                 subprojects implemented contribute to ensure both the reproduction o f their specific
           cultural patterns       and to improve the quality o f life;
           (c) the environmental impact of these investments;
           (d) subprojects' capacity for self-sustainability;
           (e) the strengthening of institutions representing these Special Social Groups and the networks
           o f   linkagethat they have developed; and
           (f) their effective participationinpublic policy discussions.

  Project monitoring instruments will consist of: (a) reports on and lists o f participants at workshops for
  the preparation of SustainableInvestmentPlans (SIPS); (b) project physical-financial reports; (c) reports
   onthe monitoring of subproject implementation and accounting.

   The Project Advisory Council (PAC) is the authority responsible for project monitoring and evaluation
   and for exercising social control over its implementation.

   The evaluation processwill involve two rounds o f studies, at the project's mid-term and at the end o f the
   implementation period. In addition to the general analyses o f the project's overall performance and
   impacts (social, economic, environmental, and on levels o f organization and participation), these studies
   will involve, in the case o f special groups, the evaluation o f the project from the standpoint o f its
  beneficiaries and their representative entities. This evaluation will use participatory methodologies and
   be performed by experts or independent institutions, with experience in dealing with indigenous,
   quilombola, gender and generation issues.

(1) These numbers are presented by Dominique T. Gallois and Dafian G. Machrio (coord.), Levantamento
Etnoecoldgico do Complex0 Tumucumaque: Fundamentos Antropoldgicos and Ambientais [Ethno-ecological
Survey of the TumucumaqueComplex: Anthropological and Environmental Bases], Nkleo de IndigenousHistory
and Indigenism Bureau, USP, 2000. The Special Indigenous Health District of Amapa and Northern Para
(NationalHealth Foundation)estimatesthe current populationof the Tumucumaque Complex at 1476 individuals.
Direct contacts made during project preparationwith representatives of the Wayana-Aparai ethnic group, at the
headquarters of the Association of Indigenous Peoples of Tumucumaque (APITU), identified 1900 individuals
spreadamong36 villages.
(2) FUNAI's ADR-Oiapoque estimates of Indians in villages at 4480 individuals. Including those residing in



                                                    - 104-

Oiapoque and Saint Georges, this population would total around5000people.
(3) Sources utilizedon the Galibi-Manuorno: (a) the entry "Galibi-Maworno", produced by Prof. Dr. Lux Vidal
for the virtual encyclopedia of the Socio-Environmental Institute, httu://www.isa.org.br ; and (b) Carlos Alberto
Ricardo and Dominique T. Gallois (op. cit.).
(4) Sourceutilizedfor referent to the Karipuna: Carlos Alberto Ricardo andDominique T. Gallois (op.cit.)
(5) Sources utilized on the Palikur: the entry written by Artionka Capiberibe for the virtual encyclopedia of the
Socio-Environmental Institute (httu://www.isa.ora.br) and the chapter dedicated to this ethnic group inthe study
coordinated by Carlos Alberto Ricardo andDominique T. Gallois (op. cit.)
(6) Government of the do State of Amapa, State Secretariaof Industry, Commerce and Mining, Report of the 1st
Symposium on Economic and Environmental Sustainability of the Indigenous Peoples of Oiapoque -AP. Macapa,
2000.
(7) In addition to the information compiled through direct consultations CTI, Apina and Dra. Dominique T.
Gallois, this section i s based on descriptionsof the Waygpi ethnic group contained in.Carlos Alberto Ricardo and
Dominique T. Gallois (op.cit.); Dominique T. Gallois (coord.), Waicipi Indigenous Land: Alternatives for
Sustainable Development, CTWirgin Forest Foundation of NorwayiGovemment o f the State o f Amaph, 1999;
Dominique T. Gallois, Territorial supervision and control among the Wajcipi: challenges to overcome a transition
on collective management, Pptal, 2002; Dominique T. Gallois, First approximation of the Wajcipi people,
www.isa.org.br.
(8) The Perimetral Settlement project, implementedby INCRA since 1987, has an area of 34,000 hectares and the
capacity to settle 680 families. It currently has 259 families settled along BR-156 and its branches, carrying out
agricultural, livestock and extractive activities.
(9) Source: IBGE,Agricultural Census of the 1995-1996Agricultural Year -)
(10) Sources: IBGE, Agricultural Census for the 1995-1996 Agricultural Year (-;                               and
FAO/INCRA, Brazil Rediscovered:New Portrait of Family Agriculture (www.incra.gov.br/sade).




                                                       - 105-

           Additional Annex 14: Environment-RelatedProvisions
                  BRAZIL: Amapa SustainableCommunities




1. Sub-projects shall beconsistentwithlocally-defined visions for sustainabledevelopment.


2. Approval of each Sub-project shall require the preparation o f a simplified environmental impact
report which shall include environmental impact mitigation measures, when applicable. Such
measures shall be carried out as part of the Subproject.


3. Urban Sub-projects insettled wetlands (ressacas) can be carried out if such wetlands have been
environmentally zoned for investment activities.


4. Preference will be given for the financing of Urban Sub-projects that protect or improve
environmentally fragile wetlands.


5. In the case of AFAP Sub-projects: (a) each request for financing shall include relevant
environmental information, such as distance of activity from nearest watercourse, hygienic
conditions for workers, anticipated use of any toxic or hazardous materials, possible emissions o f
solid, liquid or gaseous wastes; (b) where possible risks are detected, the Sub-project proposal
shall be re-designed to avoid adverse environmental impacts; (c) when applicable, NAP
Sub-projects shall only be financed aRer the necessary environmental licensing has been granted;
and (d) preference shall be given to Subprojects that are environmentally sustainable and/or
promote environmental rehabilitation.


6. Rural Sub-project proposals shall: (a) require environmental licensing; (b) be screened, for
environmental purposes, by the PCU, with input from SEMA and IBAMA, when necessary; (c)
require a simplified environmental impact analysis, including the carrying out o f mitigation
measures and use of monitoring indicators, where appropriate; and (d) include community training
on environmental impacts and responsibilities for mitigationprior to Subproject implementation.


7. The following activities, by ecosystem, shall not be eligible to be includedinany Sub-project:
(a) Tropical forest - (i)extraction and processing of wood without a management plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, developed with the meaningful participation o f locally-affected
communities; (ii) extraction of other natural resourceswith irreversibleenvironmental impacts; (iii)
uncontrolled use o f fire; and/or (iv) clearing and planting o f agricultural land that result in
deforestation.


(b) Savannah (cerrado]     -  (i)expansion of industrial and semi-industrial monocropping; (ii)
expansion of monocropping that requires clearing of more than 3 hectares o f native vegetation;
and/or (iii)
           uncontrolleduse of fire.


(c) Coastal and floodplain (vh-zea)- (i)    unsustainable industrial-scale fishing; (ii)
                                                                                       high-impact,


                                           - 106-

unmanaged extraction of other naturalresources; andor (iii) farming with exotic species.
                                                         fish


(d) Urbanwetland-activities that: (i) innewwetland settlements or densification ofexisting
                                     result
settled wetlands; (ii)harm wetland biodiversity or environmental services; and/or (iii)
                                                                                      require
unlicensed landfilling ofwetlands.




                                        - 107-


MAP SECTION


