Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7265 - BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Amapá Sustainable Communities Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF AMAPÁ 
 
Dated June 2, 2006 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7265 - BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 2006, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF 
AMAPÁ (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and 
the Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the 
payment obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article 
II of this Agreement (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification of Section 6.03 (c) set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  3
2
-
-
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”.
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“ADAP” means 
Agência de Desenvolvimento do Amapá
,
the Borrower’s 
development agency; 
(b) “AFAP” 
means 
Agência de Fomento do Amapá
,
the Borrower’s financial 
agency; 
 
(c) 
“AFAP Subproject” means any productive investment which is eligible, 
pursuant to the Operational Manual or the eligibility criteria to be established under Part 
B.4 (a) of the Project, to be financed under a Subloan; 
(d) “AMASOL” 
means 
Programa de Crédito Solidário do Povo do Amapá
,
AFAP’s micro-credit program, established pursuant to Resolution 001/2000, of AFAP’s 
Board of Executive Directors; 
(e) 
“Association” means an Urban Community Association, a Rural 
Community Association or a Rural Producers’ Association; 
(f) 
“Beneficiary” means any individual person or any entity which receives 
a
Subloan; 
(g) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, dated 
February 2003 and updated in May 2003, for the environmental management of the 
Project; 
(h) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(i) “IBAMA” 
means 
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente
,
the Guarantor’s 
environmental protection institute; 
Page  4
3
-
-
(j) 
“MIS” means any of, or both, management information systems referred 
to in Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Municipal Development Fora” means the legally established 
“Fóruns 
de Desenvolvimento Sustentável”
 that have been created in the Borrower’s 
municipalities, with the exception of the Municipalities of Macapá and Santana, for the 
purpose of discussing the feasibility, and proposing the selection, of Rural Subprojects 
and Urban Subprojects; 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (d) 
of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“PC” means the Project Council referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this 
Agreement; 
(n) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(o) “POA” 
means 
Plano Operativo Anual
,
the plan and budget referred to in 
Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement; 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
October 26, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period of Project implementation, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(q) “
Quilombolas
”
means the groups of African Brazilians living mainly in 
rural areas in the Borrower’s territory; 
(r) 
“Rural Community Association” means any community association 
(including any indigenous or 
Quilombola 
community) in the Borrower’s rural areas 
which is eligible to carry out a Rural Subproject under Part C.2 (a) of the Project; 
(s) 
“Rural Producers’ Association” means any producers’ association in the 
Borrower’s rural areas which is eligible to carry out a Rural Subproject under Part C.2 (b) 
of the Project; 
(t) 
“Rural Subproject” means any of the projects referred to in Part C.2 (a) 
or (b) of the Project; 
Page  5
4
-
-
(u) 
“SEMA” means 
Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s 
environment secretariat; 
(v) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(w) 
“Special Groups” means the persons living in the Borrower’s territory 
who belong to one of the following groups: indigenous peoples, 
Quilombolas
,
poor 
women and adolescents; 
(x) 
“Special Groups Inclusion Strategy” means the Borrower’s strategy, 
dated October 25, 2003, for inclusion of Special Groups as beneficiaries of Urban 
Subprojects or Rural Subprojects; 
(y) 
“Subloan” means any loan to be made by AFAP under Part B.3 or Part 
B.4 (b) of the Project to finance an AFAP Subproject;  
(z) 
“Subproject” means an Urban Subproject, an AFAP Subproject or a 
Rural Subproject;  
(aa) 
“Urban Community Association” means any community association 
(including any 
Quilombola
 community) in the Borrower’s municipalities of Macapá, 
Santana and Laranjal do Jari which is eligible to carry out an Urban Subproject; and 
(bb) 
“Urban Subproject” means any of the projects referred to in Part A.3 (a) 
of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four million 
eight hundred thousand Dollars ($4,800,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
Page  6
5
-
-
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 
of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions. 
(b) 
T
he Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that the Guarantor has authorized the 
extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date authorized by the 
Guarantor. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Page  7
6
-
-
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a)  The Borrower may at any time, in each case 
with the prior 
authorization of the Guarantor, through the Guarantor's Secretariat of Treasury,
 request 
any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent 
debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:  (a) through 
ADAP, carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), A.4, B.5, C.1, C.2, C.4, C.5 and D of the 
Page  8
7
-
-
Project; (b) through AFAP, carry out Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project; (c) 
through ADAP, cause Urban Community Associations to carry out Part A.3 (b) of the 
Project; and (d) through ADAP, cause Rural Community Associations and Rural 
Producers’ Associations to carry out Part C.3 of the Project, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, 
social and sustainable urban and rural development practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. 
(a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Bank’s approval.  
(c) 
The Borrower shall: (i) through an independent consultant, under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, carry out, at the end of the first year of execution of 
Subprojects, and every twelve-month period thereafter, a review of the compliance with 
the provisions of this Agreement of a sample of cases of procurement of goods and works 
carried out under the Subprojects (including a review of the relevant documentation) in 
the twelve-month period preceding the date of each such review; and (ii) promptly 
thereafter, furnish to the Bank the report of such review. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall: (i) submit to the Bank, for its prior review and 
approval, all propo
sed terms of reference for consultants’ services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) in the employment of consultants’ services, use the 
terms of reference approved by the Bank. 
Section 3.03. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause to be carried out, the Project in 
accordance with the provisions and/or recommendations of: 
(a) the 
relevant 
POA; 
(b) 
the Special Groups Inclusion Strategy; 
(c) 
the Environmental Management Plan; and 
Page  9
8
-
-
(d) 
a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), which shall 
contain the policies and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter 
alia
,
the procedures for preparation, prioritization and approval of Subprojects, the 
criteria for eligibility of Associations to participate in the Project, the arrangements for 
collaboration among ADAP, the Associations and Municipal Development Fora in the 
carrying out of the Project, the model agreements to be entered into between ADAP and 
any Association governing such collaboration, the carrying out of Urban Subprojects and 
Rural Subprojects and the transfer of funds from ADAP to the Associations for the 
financing of such Subprojects, the procurement procedures to be followed under the 
Project (including model documents), the Project’s financial management arrangements, 
the roles and responsibilities of the PC, PCU and Municipal Development Fora under the 
Project, the composition of the PC, the environment-related provisions applicable to 
Project activities, the procedures, terms and conditions for the financing of AFAP 
Subprojects under the AMASOL, the criteria for selection of Beneficiaries of Subloans 
under the AMASOL, the arrangements between AFAP and ADAP for the collaboration 
between such agencies in the carrying out of the Project, and the indicators to be used for 
Project monitoring and evaluation. In case of any inconsistency between a provision of 
the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the provision of this Agreement will prevail. 
Section 3.04. 
(a) The Borrower, through ADAP, shall maintain during the 
execution of the Project a unit within ADAP for purposes of coordinating and managing 
the carrying out of the Project (the PCU), such unit to have a structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, and qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out 
its responsibilities under the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through ADAP, shall employ, as provided in Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, a consulting firm to assist and train the PCU in carrying 
out its functions (especially in the areas of procurement and financial management and in 
the operation of the MIS), such firm to be employed until such time as the PCU shall be 
able, in the opinion of the Bank and the Borrower, to carry out its functions without any 
assistance. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall maintain, during the execution of the Project, a 
Project Council (the PC) to be responsible for: (i) approving Urban Subprojects and Rural 
Subprojects; (ii) facilitating inter-institutional relations under the Project; (iii) approving 
the POAs; and (iv) providing strategic guidance for Project implementation. 
Section 3.05. 
(a) The Borrower shall ensure that at least 10% of the funds 
allocated to finance Rural Subprojects shall be used for the benefit of Special Groups. 
(b) 
Prior to initiating any activity under the Project which will benefit an 
indigenous community, the Borrower, through ADAP, shall obtain from 
Fundação 
Nacional do Índio
,
the Guarantor’s foundation which deals with indigenous peoples in 
Page  10
9
-
-
Brazil: (i) permission for ADAP to carry out any such activity; and (ii) a commitment to 
collaborate with ADAP in the carrying out of any such activity, and with the indigenous 
communities in the carrying out of Rural Subprojects. 
Section 3.06. 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
by September 30 of each year during Project implementation, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a draft operating plan and budget, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the 
Project activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding year and the 
respective sources of funding therefor; and 
 
(b) 
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's annual budget 
by its 
Assembléia
 
Legislativa
 (Legislative Assembly), furnish to the Bank the final 
operating plan and budget for the Project’s activities for each year in question approved on 
the basis of the relevant Borrower’s annual budget (the POA). 
 
Section 3.07. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
establish and maintain Project monitoring and information systems (the 
MIS), satisfactory to the Bank, one in ADAP and another in AFAP, to enable the 
monitoring and evaluation on an on-going basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth 
in the Operational Manual, of the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof; and 
(b) 
review with the Bank, on or about the 24th month after the Effective Date, 
or such later date as the Bank shall request, the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of such review, based on the monitoring and 
evaluation activities referred to in paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said review. 
Section 3.08. 
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  11
10
-
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain in ADAP and 
AFAP, as part of their respective MIS, a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect, as the case may be: (i) 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts A, C, B.5 and D of the Project, 
in the case of ADAP; and (ii) the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts 
B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, in the case of AFAP. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year  (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, as well as balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements of AFAP for the same period, as 
audited by AFAP’s independent auditors, and (B) an opinion on 
such financial statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
Page  12
11
-
-
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure are included in 
the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the FMR), 
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
Page  13
12
-
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by the Borrower; 
(b) 
two procurement specialists and an accountant have been employed by 
the Borrower to work with the PCU, under terms of reference and having qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
the consulting firm referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has 
been employed as provided therein; and 
(d) 
the MIS in ADAP and AFAP (including the financial management 
systems referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement) have become fully operational 
to the satisfaction of the Bank. 
Section 5.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered by 
the Guarantor’s Central Bank. 
Section 5.03. 
The date September 1, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. 
The Secretary of Planning, Budget and Treasury of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  14
13
-
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orçamento e Tesouro 
Av. FAB s/n, Centro Cívico 
68906-000 Macapá, Amapá 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (96) 212-4104 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “K” - 5º andar 
 
70040-906, Brasília, D.F. 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 225-4022 
Page  15
14
-
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
the city of Brasília, Federal District, Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF AMAPÁ 
 
By /s/ Antônio Waldez Góes da Silva 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
15
-
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(1)  Goods, works and services 
 under: 
 
(a) Rural Subprojects and  
 Urban 
Subprojects 
 
(b) AFAP Subprojects 
 
1,862,000 
 
228,000 
68% 
(2)  Goods (other than under 
 Subprojects) 
 
914,000 83% 
(3) 
Consultants’ services and 
 
training (other than under 
 Subprojects) 
 
890,000 74% 
 
(4) Operational Costs 
 
882,000 
76% 
 
(5)  Front-end fee 
 
24,000 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of  
 this 
Agreement 
 
(6)  Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 Collars 
 
0 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 
 
________
4,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
Page  17
16
-
-
(a) 
“training” includes training-related expenditures other than consultants’ 
services, such as rental of equipment and facilities, printing services, travel costs and per-
diems of trainees; and 
(b) 
“operational costs” means the costs (which would not have been incurred 
absent the Project) incurred for the daily operation of the Project, such as rental of 
equipment and facilities, payment of utilities, office supplies, and communication services.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $480,000, 
may be made on account of payments made within one year before the date of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
under Category (1) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 above, unless a law has 
been enacted by the Borrower to enable the Borrower to transfer funds to private entities; 
and 
 
(c) 
under Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 above, unless: (i) a 
business plan for AFAP, satisfactory to the Bank, has been prepared and its results 
incorporated in the Operational Manual; and (ii) in the case of Subloans under Part B.4 
(b) of the Project, Part B.4 (a) of the Project has been completed in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works; (c) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; and (e) training and operational 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  18
17
-
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to learn lessons about Amazon-specific 
approaches to reduce urban and rural poverty through measures that are environmentally 
sustainable, economically efficient and socially equitable.  Specific objectives include 
generating knowledge about how to: (a) reduce rural poverty through better access to 
social services, basic infrastructure, environmentally-sound productive activities, and 
credit; (b) reduce urban poverty by focusing on economic and social development in low-
income neighborhoods; (c) integrate socioeconomic development and environmental 
conservation at the local level through Municipal Development Fora; (d) create social 
capital through strengthened community organizations, capacity-building, and 
stakeholder participation in decision-making and responsibility for managing public 
resources; and (e) develop citizenship through training, participation of minority groups, 
local empowerment, and environmentally-sensitive decision-making. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Urban Subprojects
1. 
Preparation, in a participatory manner with the assistance of Urban Community 
Associations, of community development plans which will establish priority areas for the 
implementation of Urban Subprojects.  
2. 
(a) 
Carrying out, with the assistance of 
Instituto de Pesquisas do Amapá
 (the 
Borrower’s Research Institute),
 
of
demarcation and participatory zoning of wetlands 
(
ressacas
)
in the Borrower’s municipalities of Macapá and Santana. 
(b) 
Provision of environmental education to the residents of communities 
located near the wetlands referred to in (a) above. 
3. 
(a) 
Preparation, in a participatory manner with the assistance of Urban 
Community Associations, of community development projects in the poorest 
neighborhoods in the Borrower’s municipalities of Macapá, Santana and Laranjal do Jari 
(Urban Subprojects), to address problems related to low levels of community 
organization, lack of skills and educational opportunities, absence of community 
planning, occupation of environmentally sensitive lands, poor sanitary conditions, and 
inadequate access to infrastructure and services. Urban Subprojects will consist
,
inter 
alia
,
of: (i) construction of infrastructure for community services, such as health and day-
Page  19
18
-
-
care centers; (ii) construction of public areas, such as public markets and parks; (iii) 
construction of transportation infrastructure, such as paved roads, sidewalks, bus stops 
and local terminals; (iv) capacity-building activities, such as equipping and strengthening 
neighborhood associations, professional training and provision of language courses; (v) 
construction of environmental infrastructure, such as small-scale works for sanitation, 
water supply, drainage and solid waste management; and (vi) land regularization 
activities. 
(b) 
Carrying out of Urban Subprojects. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance for the establishment and strengthening of Urban 
Community Associations. 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening for Poverty Reduction
1. 
Preparation of a development strategy and business plan to demonstrate how 
AFAP and the AMASOL can achieve their goals, expand the AMASOL and overcome 
existing financial and operational constraints and problems. 
2. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen and expa
nd
AFAP’s operational capacity 
by: (a) training new credit agents; (b) increasing AFAP’s capacity to provide technical 
assistance and manage loans; (c) improving AFAP’s monitoring and evaluation system to 
ensure that resources are effectively used to create employment and increase family 
income; and (d) decentralizing AFAP’s micro-credit system. 
3. 
Carrying out of micro-credit operations under the AMASOL, by making a 
limited number of Subloans. 
4. 
(a) 
Design of a special credit line to finance rural investments, including 
development of: (i) a registration system, (ii) an approach for providing technical 
assistance, (iii) a proposal for the loan guarantee mechanism, (iv) criteria for establishing 
the eligibility of rural investment proposals, and (v) the financial terms and conditions of 
loans. 
(b) 
Financing, on a pilot basis, of rural investments under the credit line 
referred to in (a) above in a pilot area, including monitoring and evaluation of the 
operation of such credit line. 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance for the development of a modernization strategy 
for the Borrower’s administration, within the development objective of the Project, 
consisting of a diagnostic study and an action plan. 
Page  20
19
-
-
Part C
:
Rural Subprojects
1. 
Preparation, with the assistance of indigenous or 
Quilombola
 communities, as the 
case may be, of sustainable development plans which will define the priority areas for the 
implementation of Rural Subprojects to be carried out by such communities. 
2. 
Preparation, in a participatory manner with the assistance of Rural Community 
Associations and Rural Producers’ Associations, of rural community projects in rural 
areas of the Borrower’s territory (Rural Subprojects), consisting of: (a) environmental 
and social infrastructure investments, such as for drinking water supply, primary health 
care posts, maintenance and clearance of rural paths and lanes, clearing of 
igarapé
 
waterways, community centers, day-care centers, family schools, libraries, sport and 
recreation centers, rural electricity generation and distribution, rural telecommunications 
systems, and construction of small bridges; and (b) environmentally-sustainable 
productive investments, such as for agroforestry systems, sustainable forest management, 
agricultural equipment, improvement of soil quality, community-based manioc flour 
processing units, small-scale grain silos, processing facilities for fruit pulp, seedling 
nurseries, beekeeping, sustainable fisheries practices, fish meal production, ice-making 
(for artisanal fisheries), aquaculture, textile production, studies to design community 
natural resource management systems, training for producers and entrepreneurs, and 
improved local transportation and marketing systems. 
3. 
Carrying out of Rural Subprojects. 
4. 
Carrying out of a capacity-building program to: (a) assist in the establishment 
and strengthening of Rural Community Associations and Rural Producers’ Associations; 
(b) assist the Amapá Institute for Rural Development in the provision of technical 
assistance to communities and the sharing of knowledge and experience between 
Municipal Development Fora; and (c) strengthen the capacity of Municipal Development 
Fora to undertake local sustainable development planning, and to monitor and evaluate 
Subproject implementation and results. 
5. 
Carrying out of a study on the regularization of 
Quilombola
 lands in the 
Borrower’s territory. 
Page  21
20
-
-
Part D
:
Capacity Building for Participatory Management and Technical Assistance
Carrying out of a capacity-building program, including human resource 
development, acquisition of goods and services, and creation of operational units for 
Project implementation, to: (a) reinforce ADAP’s operational capacity to coordinate 
Project implementation; (b) develop ADAP’s MIS; (c) maintain a monitoring and 
evaluation system for the Project, including close collaboration with SEMA and IBAMA; 
(d) undertake information and promotional campaigns for public awareness of the Project 
and its objective; and (e) provide environmental management training to the staff of 
AFAP, PC, PCU, Municipal Development Fora and Associations. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  22
21
-
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning May 15, 2012 
 
through November 15, 2019 
6.25% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  23
22
-
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
Page  24
23
-
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and
Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, goods (other than those 
referred to in Part B.2 of this Section) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions, using 
bidding documents, satisfactory to the Bank, in a standardized form for the Project: 
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.52 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
in at least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios
)
of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
Page  25
24
-
-
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other 
terms and conditions of sale. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. Shopping 
or 
Pregão Eletrônico
Goods (other than those referred to in Part B.2 of this Section) estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of either: (a) Shopping procedures, and a standard request for quotations 
acceptable to the Bank; or (b) the procedures known as “
pregão eletrônico
,” set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 10.520 of July 17, 2002. 
2. Community 
Participation
Goods and works under Subprojects shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
Page  26
25
-
-
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-
source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  27
26
-
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $400,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
Page  28
27
-
-
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  29
28
-
-
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
