Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)         AC 148
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/09/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A. 1. Project Statistics
Country: BRAZIL                                 Project ID: P076924
Project: Sustainable Communities - AP           Task Team Leader: Josef Lloyd Leitmann
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 2, 2003        IBRD Amount ($m): 16.38
Bank Approval: November 11, 2003                IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSRF                            Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  sector (25%); Micro- and SME finance (25%);
Status: Lending                                 General water, sanitation and flood protection sector
(25%); Sub-national government administration
(25%)
Theme: Other rural development (P); Other urban
development (P); Other environment and natural
resources management (P); Small and medium
enterprise support (P); Other social development (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The goal of the project is to reduce urban and rural poverty through measures that are environmentally
sustainable, economically efficient and socially equitable. Specific objectives include:
*   Reduce urban poverty by focusing on economic and social development in low-income
neighborhoods;
*   Reduce rural poverty through better access to credit, social services, basic infrastructure, and
environmentally-sound productive activities;
*   Create social capital through strengthened community organizations, capacity-building, and
stakeholder participation in decision-making and responsibility for managing public resources;
*   Develop citizenship through training, participation of minority groups, local empowerment, and
environmentally-sensitive decision-making; and
*   Integrate socioeconomic development and environmental conservation at the local level through
Municipal Development Fora.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The overall objective of the Amapdi Sustainable Communities Project is to support the state of Amapa
in the process of poverty reduction, promoting development in an economically efficient manner, with
social equity and environmental conservation.
The project will operate in rural and urban areas, seeking to reduce poverty and improve the living
conditions of needy populations through: (I) support to productive activities and the creation of
sustainable economic activities; (2) access to credit, basic social and infrastructure services; (3)
strengthening of community organizations and civil society participation in state policies, through the
participation of beneficiaries in decision-making processes and in the sharing of responsibilities for
public resources management; and (4) institutional strengthening of the state of Amapa.
To achieve these objectives, the project is divided into four components:



2
ISDS
V   Component I - Urban community development subprojects - Amount budgeted: US$2.26
million. Covers diagnostic, planning and participatory implementation of actions in urban
neighborhoods with the highest concentrations of poverty in the municipalities of Macapa, Santana
and Laranjal do Jari.
/   Component 2 - Micro-credit for the urban and rural poor - Amount budgeted: US$4.80 million.
Covers lines of credit for individual and group subprojects to generate income in urban areas and
development of productive activities in rural areas.
/   Component 3 - Rural community development subprojects - Amount budgeted: US$7.70
million. Covers actions aimed at rural communities in the 16 municipalities of the state of Amapa for
investments in social and productive infrastructure.
/   Component 4 - Capacity building for articipatory management and technical assistance -
Amount budgeted: US$4.03 million. Covers support to the operation of the project's deliberative
bodies (Municipal Fora and Advisory Council), strengthening of the operational capacity of the three
State enterprises that will be directly involved in project management and implementation (ADAP,
RURAP and AFAP), support for events to disseminate the project, and the carrying out of monitoring
and evaluation activities.
The target beneficiaries include the rural population - including varzea, extractive, fishermen,
indigenous and quilombola communities - and the population living in the poorer neighborhoods of
major urban centers (Macapa, Santana and Laranjal do Jari).
The project will be implemented of the Development Agency of the State of Amapa (ADAP), in
which will be created a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), directly subordinate to the President.
Executive coordination will be shared by ADAP and the Development Bank of the State of Amapa
(AFAP). Oversight of compliance with the project's more general guidelines and social control of
PCU's activities will be carried out by a Project Advisory Council (PAC), to consist of the
Director-President of ADAP, the project's General Coordinator, and representatives of the Secretariat
of Government, the Secretariat of Integrated Municipal Development, the State Secretariat of
Environment, AGEMP, AFAP, RURAP, IBAMA, SEBRAE and representatives of organized civil
society, including entities representative of indigenous populations, quilombolas, women's and youth
movements, selected by their peers.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, infornation about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Geographically, the project will benefit poor urban neighborhoods and low-income rural communities of
Amapa State (Brazil). The project will actively include a number of special groups: indigenous peoples,
traditional Afro-Brazilian communities, poor women, and adolescents. Environmentally, communities are
primarily located in savannah, tropical rainforest, riverine, and coastal ecosystems.
B. Clheck Environnmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
C Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on fU for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)      0 Yes (U No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)              0 Yes U9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               0 Yes 0 No



3
ISDS
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  ( Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              U Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes (9 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      (9 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          (9 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    U Yes * No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary ofKey Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No large-scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts anticipated. The project was designed to ensure
compliance with the requirements of the Bank's umbrella policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01).
Environmental impacts of the project are expected to be positive or neutral because of: a) the small scale
of sub-projects; b) the environmentally-beneficial nature of many anticipated sub-projects such as
agroforestry systems, water purification systems, cultivation of medicinal plants, improved soil
conservation techniques, seedling nurseries, and beekeeping; c) a requirement that sub-projects are
consistent with locally-defined visions for sustainable development; d) preparation of a simplified
environmental impact report with mitigating measures for each sub-project; and e)
environmentally-sound templates for sub-projects will be used wherever possible. Despite these
anticipated impacts, submission of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was considered prudent to
ensure conformity with Bank policy.
II.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No cumulative impacts anticipated. However, a list of environmentally sensitive areas in the state will be
prepared prior to project implementation and the PCU will carefully monitor sub-projects within these
areas to ensure that there are no cumulative impacts. This will be done through an annual review of
environmentally sensitive areas where two or more sub-projects have been implemented in order to detect
any cumulative impacts and recommend necessary mitigation as well as preventive measures.
Il.D.Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No long-term negative impacts anticipated.
H.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of altematives (if required)
N/A
ll.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
*   Urban Community Development Sub-projects - impact scoping for this component identified a
long list of positive effects and a short list of risks concerning sewerage and water supply, solid
waste management and drainage. The EMP for this component requires: a) preparation of an
environmental profile for each low-income neighborhood to identify potential environmental issues



4
ISDS
and areas of risk; b) formulation of an environmental checklist for each neighborhood that will be
completed as part of sub-project preparation in that neighborhood (the EMP includes a model
checklist); c) review and approval of the checklist and any mitigation measures by the PAC; and d)
monitoring of sub-project implementation to ensure that mitigation measures are followed and are
effective.
* Micro-credit for Urban and Rural Poor - impact scoping concluded that past investments financed
by the AMASOL program of AFAP did not create significant negative environmental impacts.
However, there is a risk that even small-scale activities can create environmental risks and that a
system monitoring and control system was justified. The EMP for this component requires that: a)
each request for financing include relevant environmental information (e.g., distance of activity from
nearest watercourse, hygienic conditions for workers, anticipated use of any toxic or hazardous
materials, possible emissions of solid, liquid or gaseous wastes, etc.); b) where possible risks are
detected, the financing proposal will be re-designed to avoid negative impacts; and c) the at-risk
proposal will apply for and receive any necessary environrmental license prior to receiving financing.
In addition, incentives will be contemplated to encourage proposals that are environmentally
sustainable (e.g., recycling) and/or that promote environmental rehabilitation (e.g., seedling
nurseries).
* Rural Community Development Sub-projects - impact scoping involved the identification of
environmental risks posed by 28 of the most likely sub-projects as well as mitigation measures and
the possible need to obtain environmental licenses. This information has been incorporated in the
standard sub-project dossiers to help associations minimize environmental problems at the design
stage. The EMP for this component consists of the following requirements: a) identifying possible
impacts, the need for additional study and environmental licensing during sub-project preparation; b)
screening of sub-project proposals by the PCU, with input from SEMA and IBAMA where
necessary; c) PAC review and approval of simplified environmental impact analysis, including
mitigation measures and monitoring indicators where appropriate; d) community training on
environmental impacts and responsibilities for mitigation prior to sub-project implementation; e)
implementation of mitigation measures where needed; and f) monitoring and periodic review.
In addition to these component-specific EMPs, the following actions will be undertaken to improve the
environmental performnance of the project: a) environmental awareness training for the PAC, the PCU,
AFAP staff, Municipal Development Fora, and associations; b) involvement of SEMA and IBAMA in
the design of information and dissemination campaigns for the project; c) use of ecological-economic
zoning to identify activities that are being proposed in areas of high environmental risks (conservation
areas, high biodiversity, natural resources under pressure, fragile or sensitive environments). This
information is already available for the three southernmost municipalities, is being developed for the
north and the project will finance its creation for the rest of the state; and d) one or more regional
environmental impact analyses to identify the cumulative effect (positive or negative) of potential
investments in priority areas.
H:.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The process of project preparation was highly participatory, involving over sixty separate consultations.
This approach began in the third quarter of 2000 when ADAP and RURAP visited ten municipalities to
survey potential beneficiaries about their preferences conceming rural sub-projects and continued
through the Bank's pre-appraisal mission. Consultations involving NGOs and other civil society
organizations were held in all sixteen of the state's municipalities. Three approaches were used to
involve this group of stakeholders: a) individual and group meetings with civil society organizations; b)
several meetings with all of the state's Municipal Development Fora which benefit from significant NGO



5
ISDS
participation; and c) targeted meetings with NGOs that are involved in indigenous, Afro-Brazilian,
gender and youth issues.
Project preparation since February 2002 has involved the participation of over 500 potential beneficiaries
and other stakeholders including state and local governunent agencies, Municipal Development Fora,
NGOs, indigenous groups, Afro-Brazilian communities, the private sector, academia, and the proposed
implementing agencies. These consultations have involved discussions of the Bank's safeguard policies.
During the final preparation phase, the Government posted the EA/EMP on the state's web site for public
comment, maintained copies of the Plan available for public review at the ADAP offices, and organized a
public consultation (April 28, 2003) that involved state and federal agencies involved in environmental
management as well as representatives of relevant civil society organizations.
In the first round of consultations for the Special Groups Inclusion Strategy (which subsumes the
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan), individualized contacts were made with women's oganizations,
quilombola leaders, representatives of the different indigenous groups living in Amapa, representatives
of non-governmental organizations working for a long period of time with these groups, and academic
specialists with renowned understanding of these social groups. The objectives of this first round of
consultations were: (a) a survey of information on the current status of these groups, their level of
organization and capacity of representation in government agencies; (b) the mapping of institutions
working with them and of the characteristics of the programs and projects they have been carrying out;
(c) collecting existing materials from secondary sources; (d) preliminary dissemination of project
objectives and guidelines; and (e) opening of channels of consultation and debate about the project. In
this stage, the state's project preparation team also participated in the General Assembly of the
Indigenous Peoples of Oiapoque and in the First Forum of Quilombo Remnant Communities of Amapa,
describing and discussing the project and the proposal for the inclusion and participation of these social
groups.
In February 2003, a new round of consultations took place with entities representing and/or working with
these different social groups.  Consultations were held with representative governmental and
non-governmental entities and/or those dealing with indigenous, quilombola, gender and generational
issues, and data was collected to: (a) adjust the project proposal to the socio-cultural specifics that
distinguish these special groups; (b) ensure their access to project benefits; and (c) ensure their adequate
participation in the project's decision-making bodies.
There are several levels of participation that have been built into project design to ensure the flow of
information, including the implementation of safeguard policies:
*   Community level - community and producer associations will democratically decide on their
priorities for sub-projects in Components I and 3, participate in sub-project design and
implementation, and assume responsibility for sub-project management and maintenance. Assistance
will be available to assist communities without associations to create legal entities and facilitate their
participation in the project.
*   Municipal level - proposals for sub-projects in Component 3 will be screened through the
appropriate Municipal Development Forum to ensure that they are consistent with plans for locally
sustainable development. These fora exist in all sixteen of Amapa's municipalities, involve a wide
range of stakeholders and generally follow transparent procedures.
*   State level - the Project Advisory Council (PAC) would involve govemrment and non-government
stakeholders to advise on questions of project implementation and sub-project selection.
*   Special groups - the strategy for the participation of special groups (indigenous peoples,
quilombolas, women and adolescents) is described in Special Groups Inclusion Strategy.



6
ISDS
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                8/15/2002     2/14/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            10/15/2002    2/17/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             11/15/2002    4/11/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submissiori to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                8/15/2002     3/6/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            10/15/2002    3/26/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             11/15/2002    4/11/2003
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by      Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:            Josef Lloyd Leitmann                       4/11/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Judith Lisansky                      5/8/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Estela Neves                         5/8/03
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:  Alberto Costa                        5/8/03



7
ISDS
Approved by:                 Name                                       Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                       5/8/03
Sector Manager/Director      John Redwood                               5/8/03



