                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001933



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72650)



                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.8 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                          STATE OF AMAPÁ, BRAZIL

                          WITH THE GUARANTEE OF

                   THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                     FOR THE

               AMAPÁ SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES PROJECT



                                 June 22, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective December 30, 2010)
                              Currency Unit =Brazilian Real (R$)
                                      1.00 = US$ 0.601
                                     US$ 1.00 = R$1.665

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 through December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADAP         Development Agency of Amapá State
AFAP         Amapá State Development Financing Agency
AMASOL       Amapá Peoples' Solidarity Credit Program
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFP          Call for Proposals
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
IBAMA        Brazilian Environment and Renewable Natural Resources Institute
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDB          Inter American Development Bank
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS          Management Information System
MTR          Mid-term Review
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PDA          Demonstration Projects (Type A) of the RFPP
PDO          Project Development Objective
RESEX        Extractive Reserves Project
RFPP         Rain Forest Pilot Program
RPAP         Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
RURAP Amapá Institute for Rural Development
SEBRAE       Small and Medium-size Enterprise Support Service
SEMA         Amapá State Environment Secretariat
SEPLAN       Amapá State Planning Secretariat
SIL          Sector Investment Loan
TA           Technical Assistance
                                Vice President: Pamela Cox
                              Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                               Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser
                          Project Team Leader: Garo Batmanian
                             ICR Team Leader: Garo Batmanian
                                                                  BRAZIL
                         AMAPÁ SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES PROJECT


                                                              CONTENTS
A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates..................................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary......................................................................................................................... i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................................. iii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................................... iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................................... vi
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 6
3.     Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 13
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 19
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 19
6.     Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 22
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................................. 26
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................................. 32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............................. 33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................ 35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................................... 36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................................... 37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................................ 38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 39
MAP: State of Amapá, Brazil ........................................................................................................ 40
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Amapa Sustainable
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:
                                                                       Communities
Project ID:             P076924                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-72650
ICR Date:               06/29/2011              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              AMAPÁ STATE
Original Total
                        USD 4.8M                Disbursed Amount:      USD 2.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.6M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 ADAP Agencia de Desenvolvimento do Amap
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/11/2002     Effectiveness:          06/20/2006       06/20/2006
                                                                              09/28/2009
Appraisal:            05/05/2003     Restructuring(s):
                                                                              09/29/2009
Approval:             12/07/2004     Mid-term Review:        07/30/2008       09/26/2008
                                     Closing:                06/30/2009       12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:           Unsatisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing          Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       25                   35
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                  25                   35
Micro- and SME finance                                                 40                   20
Other social services                                                  10                   10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             22                   10
Other environment and natural resources management                     23                   25
Participation and civic engagement                                     11                   15
Rural services and infrastructure                                      22                   25
Urban services and housing for the poor                                22                   25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                            David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Makhtar Diop                          Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:            Ethel Sennhauser                      Abel Mejia
Project Team Leader:       Garo J. Batmanian                     Maria-Valeria Pena
ICR Team Leader:           Garo J. Batmanian
ICR Primary Author:        Garo J. Batmanian
                           Christoph Diewald




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To learn lessons about Amazon-specific approaches to reduce rural and urban poverty
through development that is economically efficient, socially equitable and
environmentally sustainable.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDo was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values          Target Years
                  Lessons learned about how to: 1. reduce rual and urban poverty in the Amazon,
Indicator 1 :     2. Improve living standards, 3. Conserve natural resources , 4. Build social and
                  institutional capital
Value
quantitative or   n/a                        n/a                 n/a             n/a
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/06/2006                 06/06/2006          06/30/2009      12/30/2010
Comments          While there were not baseline and targets set for this indicator, the objective was
(incl. %          partially met, as subproject beneficiaries and the executing agency have learned
achievement)      lessons during project implementation, as listed in the main document.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                            Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :     number of sub-project implemented
Value
(quantitative   0                        60                 n/a            52
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/06/2006                 06/30/2009         12/30/2010     12/30/2010
                (The Matrix did not provide a target. The PAD indicated a goal of supporting 60
Comments        subprojects.)
(incl. %        Target largely met: 87%
achievement) 25 urban and 27 rural subprojects were supported. 6 subprojects were selected
                but grant agreement were not issued.
Indicator 2 : percentage of special groups participating
Value
(quantitative   0                        10%                n/a            57%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/06/2006                 06/30/2009         12/30/2010     12/30/2010


                                                   iii
                  The Matrix did not provide a target. The PAD indicated the goal of 10% of
Comments
                  subprojects benefitting special groups
(incl. %
                  Project exceeded the target. The breakdown among the special groups is: 4%
achievement)
                  indigenous people; 11% quilombolas; 21% women.
Indicator 3 :     productive investments financially sustainable
Value
(quantitative     0                        50%                     n/a            43%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/30/2010               06/30/2009              12/30/2010     05/30/2011
Comments
                  Target largely met.
(incl. %
                  This was measured in May 2011, five months after the project was closed.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                              IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     05/02/2005           Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/28/2005           Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/01/2006          Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  4     06/27/2006           Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     0.02
  5     12/18/2006           Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     0.42
                              Moderately
  6     06/25/2007                                           Satisfactory                      0.82
                            Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                     Moderately
  7     12/09/2007                                                                             0.82
                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  8     04/11/2008       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.82
  9     10/17/2008       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                1.62
                              Moderately                     Moderately
 10     02/26/2009                                                                             1.62
                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                     Moderately
 11     04/14/2009                                                                             1.62
                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately                     Moderately
 12     12/29/2009                                                                             2.22
                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
 13     05/08/2010       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                2.54
                              Moderately                     Moderately
 14     01/08/2011                                                                             2.88
                            Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions


                                                   iv
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     There was only one
 09/28/2009       N       MU    MU            2.02
                                                     restructuring,as presented below
                                                     Cancelation of the microcredit
 09/29/2009       N       MU    MU            2.02   subcomponent owing to weak
                                                     institutional capacity




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
    1.1. Preface
1.      This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) describes the experiences, achievements
and lessons of the Amapá Sustainable Communities project in the Brazilian State of Amapá
(Loan 7265-BR), for which a Sector Investment Loan (SIL) was approved on December 07, 2004.
The loan closed on December 31, 2010, after an extension of 18 months.
2.      The project was funded by a SIL, with a pilot and learning character, while it was initially
thought as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) operation. This has led to some inconsistencies
between stated objectives, actually desired outcomes and project design. Throughout this report,
the project is treated as a SIL operation and some results and indicators were adopted to best
evaluate the operation.
3.      The operation accomplished 85% of the target for supporting community-level projects.
Special groups were the direct beneficiaries of 57% of the subprojects, far exceeding the target of
10%. On the other hand, the operation was negatively impacted from the long preparation time
(50 months between Concept Review and Effectiveness) and from serious corruption charges
being brought against senior authorities which affected the State´s public administration.
4.     The rating in this report differs from the final rating in the Data Sheet due to the
modification of ISR filing and disclosing rules. The final ISR was field on December 24, 2010,
and approved by the Sector Manager on December 27, i.e. before the project closing date.
However, it is presented on the “Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs” table as archived on
January 08, 2011, when the disclosure was automatically authorized in compliance with the
World Bank´s Access to Information policy.

    1.2. Context at Appraisal
5.       The State of Amapá. Amapá became a federal state in 1988, and the first elected
governor took office only in 1991. Amapá continued showing some of the features of a territory:
high dependence on transfers from the federal government, weak public institutions, limited
availability of infrastructure and services, predominance of a large public sector, and few
significant investments by the private sector.
6.      Amapá had an area of 142,815 km2, and a population of 477,000 people in 2000, growing
at an extremely rapidly rate of more than 5% annually after the state was created, principally due
to immigration from the other poorer states of the Brazilian Northeast and North. Migration was
stimulated by perceived opportunities such as the creation of a free trade zone and new
settlements through land distribution. Much of the population growth went to Amapá's cities and
towns: 81% of the population was urban in 1991 and 89% in 2000. In contrast, population
density in the rural areas was very low. Some 42% of the state's population was considered to be
poor in 2000, and 18% extremely poor. Poverty was primarily located in urban areas; about
153,000 urban and 45,000 rural population was poor in 2000. While poverty, in absolute numbers,
was concentrated in urban areas, the percentage of poor in the rural areas was higher than in
urban areas.
7.      Amapá´s rural economy was based mainly on extraction of natural resources: mining,
timber, extractivism (mainly rubber, Brazil nuts and heart of palm), tree plantations, fishing,
livestock, subsistence agriculture, and trade. While many of these activities occurred in the
Amazon rainforest, the state also has savanna, floodplain and coastal ecosystems rich in terms of
biodiversity and environmental services. Amapá´s rainforest was one of the best-preserved in
Brazil, with 99% still intact in 2000 and a low deforestation rate of about 0.05%. The primary
                                                 1
threats to the forest came from the expansion of cattle ranching, unregulated land development,
and fires.
8.       Sector Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement. The central sectoral issue
identified at appraisal was how to promote economic development that helps to alleviate poverty
while preserving the state's rich environmental heritage to sustain the rapidly increasing
population and reduce poverty.
9.       Since the 1990s, the Bank had been supporting a number of rural poverty alleviation
projects (RPAPs) in northeastern and southern Brazil that presented a promising approach for
addressing persistent poverty levels. These projects financed community-managed subprojects,
providing basic services to the poorest rural families and offering access to credit. The Bank had
also gained experience with microcredit through the Northeast “Crediamigo” project. Amapá was
considered an opportunity to learn from these lessons and transfer the RPAP experience to
alleviate poverty in Brazil’s North.
10.     In addition, the Bank had been involved in conservation and sustainable development of
the Amazon region through its role, as Trustee and coordinator, in the Pilot Program to Conserve
the Brazilian Rain Forest (RFPP). Parts of the RFPP, such as the Extractive Reserves Project and
the Demonstration Projects, represented pilot efforts to introduce new forms of natural resource
use in the rain forest by poor forest dwellers, with first results already emerging at the time of
appraisal of this project. The RFPP helped strengthen state environmental agencies, supported
the consolidation of “extractive reserves”, such as the 4,800 km2 Rio Cajari Extractive Reserve in
Amapá; financed sustainable community-level economic initiatives; helped protect indigenous
areas; and supported scientific research. At the time of appraisal, the Bank considered that this
type of experience had given the Bank a realistic sense of opportunities for implementing
economic development that is environmentally sustainable within the constraints faced by Amapá.
11.      The Brazil Country Assistance Strategy 2004-2007 (Report No. 27043-BR), discussed by
the Board of Executive Directors on December 9, 2003, recognized that the Amazon is a diverse
region that faces an equally complex set of challenges. The loan was programmed under the CAS
to contribute to the “sustainability pillar” as well as to the “more equitable Brazil pillar”.
12.     This was the first Bank loan in the Brazilian Amazon region in a decade. After distressing
experiences under the POLONOROESTE projects, the Bank abstained from lending in the
Amazon; instead, its main presence in the Amazon was through its role in the RFPP. The Amapá
project was part of a new Bank strategy for re-entering the Amazon where 45% lived below the
poverty line and with most is forest intact.
13.      Lending Instrument. The project was funded by a Sector Investment Loan (SIL), aimed
at learning how approaches to alleviate poverty used in northeastern Brazil could be transferred to
the Amazon and how past experiences with environmentally sustainable development could
benefit the rural and urban poor. The plan was to have to a small SIL with pilot character, to be
followed later by a larger loan of about $16.7 million as a second phase, as requested by the new
State administration.
14.     The PAD mentions an expected US$21 million loan from the Interamerican Development
Bank (IDB) for an Urban Environmental Improvement Program to support infrastructure and
services in Amapá´s three major cities, to become effective in FY 2005. This loan never came to
be made, due to limits to Amapá´s indebtedness under the Fiscal Responsibility Law. The IDB
loan was expected to co-finance the Bank loan (but such co-financing never became an
effectiveness condition), and the PAD mentions the need for careful coordination in the
implementation of both loans under a single Project Coordination Unit (PCU).


                                                2
      1.3. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
15.     The PDO stated in the PAD was to learn lessons about Amazon-specific approaches to
reduce rural and urban poverty through development that is economically efficient, socially
equitable and environmentally sustainable.
16.       Specific objectives included generating knowledge about how to:
         Reduce rural poverty through better access to social services, basic infrastructure,
          environmentally-sound productive activities, and credit;
         Reduce urban poverty by focusing on economic and social development in low-income
          neighborhoods;
         Integrate socioeconomic development and environmental conservation at the local level
          through Municipal Development Fora;
         Create social capital through strengthened community organizations, capacity-building,
          stakeholder participation in decision-making and responsibility for managing public
          resources;
         Develop citizenship through training, participation of minority groups, local
          empowerment, and environmentally-sensitive decision-making.
17.      The intention of the State was to then scale up these lessons through a second, larger
project. Overall project impact was to be gauged by the extent to which useful lessons, both
positive and negative, were generated on how to improve the livelihood of urban and rural poor in
Amapá. Key project performance indicators were to include information and experiences
concerning:
         Creation of additional employment through investment in rural and urban economic
          activities;
         Improved well-being and income of beneficiaries through economic, environmental and
          social investments;
         Improvement of microcredit to support productive investments in urban areas;
         Planning, implementation and maintenance of community-level socioeconomic and
          environmental investments by beneficiaries;
         Geographic decentralization of economic activities and decision-making;
         Partnerships between community groups and the private sector, public authorities and
          NGOs;
         Increased community awareness about more sustainable and economically efficient
          practices for using natural resources.
18.      The above key indicators, all related to learning, were embedded in a large logical
framework matrix (Project Design Matrix, Annex 1 of the PAD), at the level of the PDO and
specific objectives. The same matrix contained also two lower levels: “Results” and “Outputs
from components”. Under “results”, the matrix listed five outcomes related to implementation of
community enterprises in urban and rural areas, social infrastructure, community development
and environmental management in urban areas, microcredit operations, social and physical
infrastructure in rural areas, and implementation of an integrated, participatory and multi-
institutional management system that builds local capacity. These five outcomes were to be
measured by twelve indicators.

      1.4. Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
           and reasons/justification
19.       The development objective was not revised.

                                                 3
20.     Most of the original indicators in the Project Design Matrix were related to “learning
lessons” and did not have targets. Thus, a set of indicators and targets where developed to
measure the implementation of key project components.
         15 social urban subprojects supported by the project
         15 productive urban subprojects supported by the project
         15 social rural subprojects supported by the project
         15 productive rural subprojects supported by the project
         10% of subprojects benefiting special groups
         50% of productive investments financially sustainable.

      1.5. Main Beneficiaries
21.      The appraisal document identifies as beneficiaries the 198,000 citizens of Amapá (44,900
rural and 153,400 urban) who were living in poverty at the time. The assumption was that, while
part of those people would benefit directly from investments under the pilot SIL, the interventions
would be used to generate experiences and lessons for scaling up to the larger poor population
through a follow-on project.

      1.6. Original Components (as approved)
22.       The project had four components:
23.     Component A: Urban Community Development Subprojects (US$1.79 million). The
component was to focus on the poorest neighborhoods in the cities of Macapá, Santana and
Laranjal do Jari through the preparation and implementation of community development plans.
Plans would be prepared by neighborhood associations in a participatory manner and encompass
social development and environmental subprojects. Subprojects were to address problems related
to low levels of community organization, lack of skills and educational opportunities, the absence
of community planning, occupation of environmentally sensitive lands, poor sanitary conditions,
and inadequate access to infrastructure and services.
24.     The component had three outputs identified with 11 indicators. There were no targets
given for outputs or indicators. The PAD states that it was expected that the project would finance
30 subprojects at an average value of R$150,000 (US$43,000 at the time).
25.     Component B: Institutional Strengthening for Poverty Reduction (US$1.02
million).The component was to build capacity of the state to address key issues of poverty and
development by supporting: (i) a specific reform of the state microcredit provider, and (ii) a
general reform of the state administrative apparatus related to areas of the project.
26.     Subcomponent B1: Elaboration of a Development Strategy. It included preparation of a
development strategy and business plan to demonstrate how Amapá State Development Bank
(AFAP) and its Amapá Peoples' Solidarity Credit Program (AMASOL) program could achieve its
goals, expand the AMASOL program and overcome existing financial and operation constraints
and problems. To this end, tasks included elaborating a complete business plan and development
strategy, preparing a market study with the overall objective to reach the urban poor; fine-tuning
the newly implemented financial management system to be able to generate the required financial
indicators; and other tasks.
27.     The subcomponent had one output identified with 12 indicators. None of the indicators
had target values specified.
28.     Subcomponent B2: Expand access to microcredit. It included microcredit pilot program
to be managed by AFAP through a strengthened AMASOL.
                                                 4
29.      The subcomponent had one output listed with 7 indicators. None of the indicators had
target values specified.
30.     Subcomponent B3: Improve public administration. The objective was to improve the
state´s administration so that the government could more effectively and efficiently reduce
poverty through its programs to promote economic development with social justice. The
subcomponent also foresaw action planning, including consensus-building workshops for each
key diagnostic study, development of strategies building on the diagnostic studies and an action
planning workshop to discuss the proposed agenda.
31.     The subcomponent had one output identified with four indicators. None of the indicators
had target values specified.
32.      Component C: Rural Community Development Subprojects (US$2.55 million). This
component was designed to build capacity in the rural area and provide grants for subprojects
identified, developed and managed by community and producer associations. Proposals were
prioritized by the appropriate Municipal Development Fora. The component would reserve 10%
of subproject financial resources for vulnerable groups: indigenous people, Afro-Brazilians
(quilombolas), and poor women and adolescents. Special, culturally-appropriate procedures were
designed for subproject design and approval for indigenous groups and quilombolas.
33.     The component had four outputs identified with 12 indicators, without target values
associated to them. The PAD states that it was expected that this component would finance 15
environmental and social infrastructure subprojects with an average value of R$75,000
(US$25,000 at the time), as well as 15 environmentally-sustainable productive subprojects with
an average value of R$100,000 (US$33,000 at the time). The average subproject would directly
benefit 30 poor families or 150 people.
34.     Component D: Capacity Building for Participatory Management and Technical
Assistance (US$ 1.05 million). ). This component was designed to: (i) strengthen the operational
capacity of ADAP to coordinate project implementation; (ii) develop a project management
information system; (iii) maintain a monitoring and evaluation system for the project, including
close collaboration with the state Environment Secretariat (SEMA) and the national
environmental protection agency (IBAMA); and (iv) undertake information and promotional
campaigns for public awareness.
35.      The component had three outputs identified, without target values or indicators.
      1.7. Revised Components
36.     In September 2009, the Bank waived the requirement to implement the microcredit
subcomponent under component B, and US$228,000 was cancelled from the loan amount upon
request by Borrower´s request. During project supervision in 2008, it was determined that AFAP,
the agency responsible for the subcomponent, continued to lack the institutional capacity for its
implementation as a result from management problems, a deteriorating liquidity situation and
almost complete cessation of its lending operations.
37.      The cancellation of the microcredit subcomponent was undertaken through a third-order
restructuring. No reallocation of loan funds was required since the subcomponent to be dropped
did not affect the PDO or the outcome indicator target, and the associated amount was less than
5% of the Loan. The cancellation of this microcredit subcomponent was handled through a
Notification of Waiver, signed by the Country Director.

      1.8. Other significant changes
38.      None to be recorded.
                                                 5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
    2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
    Political and institutional changes during preparation
39.     There were important changes over time that affected preparation and nature of the
project. The State of Amapá was authorized by the Federal Government to seek this loan in 2001.
An identification mission took place in early 2002, the concept review in April 2002, and
preparation was expected be concluded before December 2002, the end of the State
administration´s term. That administration had a specific Sustainable Development Program
(PDSA) and was seeking Bank support to learn lessons which could be scaled up under their own
program. However, the timetable proved not to be feasible. A new governor was sworn in on
January 2003 and had a different vision for the state. Within a few days of entering office, he
submitted a request to the Federal Government to increase the scope of the project and the loan
amount so that it could begin to address questions of urban poverty. The Bank decided that (a) the
project would be funded by a small SIL, rather than a LIL, and that the requested increase in loan
amount would constitute the follow-on loan for the current project. The decision for a SIL was
based on three arguments: (a) pilot projects aimed at learning lessons for follow scale up project
are typically supported through SILs, (b) the project already incorporated lessons from the
Northeast RPAPs and the RFPP and was thus not an innovation to Brazil, and (c) the processing
requirements for a LIL could not be met under the circumstances (six months preparation).
40.     The remainder of preparation, appraisal, negotiations, loan signing and implementation
occurred under two State administrations - 2003-2006 and 2007-2010, both under the same
Governor. Appraisal took place in May 2003, but negotiations occurred only in October 2004, 30
months after the concept meeting.
41.     The Bank task team changed in 2003. There was insufficient time for a handover mission,
and the new team did not include some key members of the previous team. Some institutional
memory was thus lost, and the experience gained under the RFPP was not fully applied. Between
the change in government and the change in task teams, project design became internally less
consistent.
    Soundness of the background analysis
42.      The PAD lists and discusses related projects and programs, whether funded by the Bank
or other sources, in the fields of rural and urban development as well as microcredit. The project
concept was guided by the idea of transferring the model of community-driven rural development
and poverty alleviation, funded by the Bank through several RPAP loans to the Northeastern
states of Brazil since 1993, to an Amazonian situation. This idea had and still has full merit. The
appraisal document acknowledges, however, that the RPAP model was not necessarily the most
effective means of stimulating economic development in urban areas, and emphasized that more
emphasis on environmental management and sustainable production was required in the Amazon
than had been the practice in the Northeastern projects. The team drew three lessons from the
“Evaluation of the Brazilian Experience with Rural Poverty Reduction” (2001), which were
reflected in the project design: (a) decentralized decision-making through municipal development,
(b) installation of regional offices to promote and facilitate the project, (c) beneficiary
involvement in subproject selection, counterpart funding, implementation and maintenance, and
(d) poverty targeting through a macro focus on priority areas and community-level selection.
43.     The preparation benefited from the experience gathered under the Rain Forest Pilot
Program (RFPP), which included the Demonstration Projects (PDA, P006571). The PDA was a
small-grants program to support community initiatives experimenting with natural resources use
in the rain forest environment, including five subprojects in Amapá. Before appraisal, the task
                                                6
team made an effort to gather lessons from both the RFPP projects and the in the Northeast. A
seminar on lessons learned from PDA and RESEX in Amapá was held, with site visits to
subprojects financed by these projects. At that time, the team included members with experience
from both the RPAP and the RFPP programs. The Government team made visits to RPAP
project agencies in Piauí and Pernambuco, and a set of 15 different model projects for economic
alternatives was prepared by a local consultant. Between appraisal and negotiations, however,
some of the Bank-internal experience from these two large programs was not effectively used for
the project.
44.     Two large Bank-funded projects in the Amazon, in the states of Rondônia and Mato
Grosso, had already supported similar community-driven rural development subprojects from
1995 through 2002. The ICRs for these projects (Reports No. 26080 and 26081) contained
lessons learned on success and failure of community-driven development, which were available
in draft within the Bank in March 2003 and publicly available in October 2003. The lessons
learned drawn from those projects were not considered in the project design.
45.     During preparation events were to discuss the project and its concepts, as well as the
Bank´s safeguard policies. These events drew a large participation from representatives of civil
society; more than 500 potential beneficiaries; indigenous and Afro-Brazilian groups; state and
local government agencies, and private sector and academia.
    Assessment of project design
46.     Project Development Objective: The objectives were defined as “learning lessons on
how to reduce rural and urban poverty…”, which are typical of a pilot project. Within the context
at the time, this objective was relevant, reasonable and achievable. As a pilot for a larger
operation, the PDO and the specific objectives were not fully consistent with project component
design, which focused more on actual development outcomes as specified under “Results” in the
Project Design Summary matrix, and less on learning outcomes.
47.     Components and Organization: The project had separate mechanisms to support urban
community development subproject, rural community infrastructure subproject, rural community
environmentally sustainable subproject, and microcredit. The project components could have
benefited from a less complex and more flexible structure and mechanism to support the
subprojects, given the relative small size of the loan and the inexperience of the borrower with
such mechanism.
48.      The microcredit subcomponent was certainly the most complex element of the project
and should have been revisited, revised or even eliminated by negotiations. This subcomponent
was to be implemented by the Amapá State Development Bank (AFAP). At the time of appraisal,
AFAP’s institutional capacity seems to have been in place as it had over 2300 clients. However,
in April 2004, six months before negotiation, the AFAP president was ousted and put under
investigation for misuse of funds. Two months later, the new AFAP president suspended all
credits to carry out a comprehensive investigation of the entire portfolio.
49.     The subcomponent (B3) with the objective to improve public administration in Amapá
went almost certainly beyond what could be reasonably expected from a project of the reach and
size proposed. Diagnostic studies of service delivery constraints, public expenditure reviews,
action planning and consensus-building workshops with the aim of making the entire state
government more responsive and effective towards poverty reduction could not possibly be
launched and overseen by the executing agency (ADAP) and its small PCU. These activities
should have been anchored at the Governor´s office, if at all included.
50.     Component D (Capacity Building for Participatory Management and Technical
Assistance) was not designed to coordinate all capacity building activities of the project. The
                                               7
component aimed basically at providing some means for project management and M&E, while a
number of other capacity-generating activities were spread among the three other components.
51.      In retrospect, this small project could have had a much simpler design, with less complex
procedures for subproject selection, common to urban and rural communities, and without
microcredit and administrative reform subcomponents. It should have shown more consistency
between PDO and component design, particularly by including some specific element designed to
learn lessons.
52.     Project Council: The project envisioned the establishment of a Project Council to
provide guidance to the PCU and to include other agencies and civil society organizations in
project oversight.
53.      Risk Assessment: The preparation team was aware of the institutional risks, both in state
government agencies and in benefiting organizations at the time of appraisal, and included
mitigating measures, mainly in the form of training and technical assistance provisions. Particular
attention was given to financial and procurement management capacity and how to strengthen it.
A Financial Management Plan was drawn up, and several conditions for negotiation and loan
effectiveness were stipulated that related to institutional capacity. The PAD identified ten risks
and associated mitigating measures. These were adequately chosen.
54.      On the other hand, the risk of lack of counterpart funds in a timely manner owing to the
annual State budget negotiations was not identified during preparation. This problem caused a
significant impact on the contracting of subprojects, especially those approved in the third CFP.
55.     In retrospect, considering the political and institutional changes that took place during the
long preparation period (50 months from Concept Review to Effectiveness) the risk assessment
could have been updated, at least, during negotiations which took place 15 months after appraisal.
For example, during that period AFAP went from a solid organization to one under intervention
for misuse of funds.

    2.2. Implementation
    Factors affecting Project Implementation
56.     Long Timeframe: Implementation started much later than originally foreseen, after
delays between appraisal and Board approval (19 months), and then between Board and loan
signing (18 months). Total time for implementation amounted to 4.5 years, only slightly longer
than the four years foreseen in the PAD.
57.      Changes in state government priorities focus on other programs: As explained above,
the project was prepared under one administration and implemented by another, which had a
different vision for the State. After the first year, and once ADAP became the lead agency in the
State for the large federal Growth Acceleration Program (PAC), the PCU for this relatively small
project lost gradually its autonomy, priority attention and support accorded to it earlier by ADAP
management.
58.      Change in mechanism to select subprojects to adapt to new state context: After
effectiveness had been declared, the project was quick to start as preparations for selecting and
funding rural and urban subprojects had already been made beforehand and the PCU in ADAP
was functioning. The process of soliciting and selecting subproject proposals from urban and
rural communities was somewhat different from what was described in the PAD. While priority
neighborhoods in the three major urban centers and priority rural municipalities had been selected
and documented in the Operations Manual, neighborhood diagnostics and development plans, as
well as, municipal development plans were not further developed. The Rural Municipal
                                                 8
Development Fora had largely become inactive under the new state administration and were no
longer used as mechanism of mediation among rural communities and their project proposals.
59.      The project management opted instead for an alternative method of soliciting and
selecting proposals, that is, through Calls for Proposals (CFP) that were made public in the
priority neighborhoods and municipalities and selected by the Project Council. Both urban and
rural subproject proposals were invited with the same CFP, merging to some extent the
operational aspects of Components A and C of the project. Three such CFPs were issued, two in
2006 and a third one in 2009. The Bank welcomed this modification on the first supervision
mission in 2006. Little time was left between the first and second CFPs (eight months) to learn
any possible lessons from the proposal preparation and selection experience of the first one. The
Bank asked the PCU to identify the lessons learned from those two CFPs before allowing the
issuance of third CFP. The third CFP (7/2009) included significant improvements in its rules and
process from lessons learned from the other CFPs and from the mid-term review which took
place in late 2008.
60.     This modality of CFP was helpful for project implementation, improved transparency of
the process, and was later adopted by other Amapá state agencies for other projects and programs.
Dealing with urban and rural subprojects in the same CFP, albeit under somewhat different rules,
was also a good decision. The Operational Manual, written in 2005, was formally revised in
2009 to reflect these changes.
61.      Changes in the role of Project Council: The Project Council changed somewhat from
its expected role and served as selection committees to evaluate and select subproject proposals.
While this worked well in the selection process, the Project Council did not provide adequate
strategic guidance to project implementation as foreseen initially.
62.     Delays in providing state counterpart funds and approving ADAP’s budget: At
several times, the Borrower failed to make available its counterpart funds in a timely manner to
the project account. In addition, there were difficulties and delays in transferring loan funds from
the Special Account to the project account. Dependence on the state budget for the allocation of
counterpart funds meant dependence on the budget approval and release calendar. Releases
occurred often late in the year, and thus were often inconsistent with the requirements and the
calendar of rural subprojects.
63.     Funding delays had a negative impact on the implementation of subprojects. In the case
of the second CFP, beneficiary associations had to wait for a year to receive funds for
implementation. Such delay was directly related to changes in ADAP management, which
eventually also led to the resignation of the first project coordinator. In the case of the third CFP,
15 subproject proposals were selected but only nine subprojects were funded.
64.     The state institutional crisis which culminated with corruption charges being brought
against senior authorities, including the Governor and Vice-Governor, brought the state to a halt.
ADAP processed the grant agreements with the beneficiaries solely with the loan funds advanced
by the Bank, with the expectation that the situation would normalize and the state would
eventually provide the agreed counterpart funds. This did not happen in time. The Bank identified
the issue during the December 2010 supervision mission and asked the Governor to provide the
funds immediately. The Bank also met with the Governor-Elect to be sworn in on January 2011.
This was followed by a management letter to the governor. The incoming Governor took action
and deposited the counterpart funds in the project account, but at that time the project was already
closed and the remaining six subprojects were not supported.
65.     The delays and the institutional crisis also affected negatively the implementation of the
study on regularization of quilombo lands included in the loan agreement. The terms of reference
                                                  9
for the study had been prepared and the procurement process was cleared, but ADAP did not have
funds to complete the process and hire the consultants. This issue was also raised by the Bank
with the Governor-Elect in December 2010. He realized the importance of the study and allowed
the contract to go through with the state’s own resources a few days after taking office, after the
project had closed.
66.     Changing situation at AFAP affected the microcredit: The serious lack of capacity in
AFAP, the agency responsible for microcredit, has already been noted above. The agency
suffered from internal management complications, scrutiny of its precarious financial situation by
the Central Bank and an almost complete stand-still of its credit operations. The Mid-term
Review decided on dropping the microcredit subcomponent, upon the Borrower´s request, and the
Bank cancelled the associated loan funds.
67.     Uneven capacity of PCU during the lifetime of the project: The PCU was indeed
strengthened physically at the beginning, with adequate space, furniture, equipment and vehicles.
However, the needed skilled staff for proper financial management and procurement were not
fully available at the outset. The effectiveness condition of hiring a firm to support ADAP and
the PCU in management and administration, particularly financial management and procurement,
was considered fulfilled by the Bank. However, the Borrower was overly optimistic about the
training provided by consultants and readiness of its team to manage the project without
assistance after effectiveness. When it became clear that the team needed more training, the Bank
provided the technical assistance and training directly.
68.     The changes in the structure and responsibilities of ADAP over time had repercussions
on the implementation of the project, particularly with regard to financial management,
procurement and monitoring and evaluation. Certain positions in the PCU were not always filled
with the most suitable staff. A law changing the structure of ADAP in 2009 did away with a PCU
which was required under a loan covenant. This was rectified after a strong Bank intervention,
through an internal order (portaria) in ADAP that re-created the team with its functions and
responsibilities.
69.      Insufficient Technical Assistance to subprojects: The crucial constraint to formulation
of good-quality subprojects and to their effective implementation by grantee associations was the
availability of technical assistance (TA). Initially, the PCU and ADAP did not have human
resources themselves to extend such TA. Subprojects under the first CFP suffered from the lack
of TA. For the second CFP, attempts were made to stimulate and secure the cooperation of other
government agencies to extend TA to associations for subproject preparation. For the third CFP,
attempts were made to get alternative sources of TA, also to assist with implementation, including
hiring of consulting firms (or NGOs). While some TA was forthcoming from agencies such as
the state rural extension agency (RURAP), the support was based more on personal commitment
and initiative of certain staff than commitment of the institution as such. TA from private or semi-
private entities, such as the private Orsa Foundation or the national small business support service
SEBRAE, were, however, quite effective in some cases. Overall, TA support for funded
proposals under the second and third CFP was more effective, including not only RURAP, but
also the state fisheries agency, IBAMA and others, which was a result of in-process learning.
70.     Uneven time period to implement subprojects: While there was adequate time for
implementation of subprojects from the first and second CFPs, those contracted under the third
CFP had hardly six months to conclude implementation. In order to sign sub-grant agreements
(convênios) the community organizations had to request and obtain all necessary documentation,
including environmental licenses. After completing this step the grantees had to wait for the
government budget allocation in order to transfer funds to subproject accounts.


                                                10
71.      Once signed, many subprojects of the first two CFPs took a very long time to spend the
funds and account for their use, due to lack of training in the correct handling of procurement and
financial accounting. Other difficulties impacted the third CFP issued in 2009. The goal was to
sign sub-grant agreements in 2009 to allow more than a year for implementation. The PCU did
prepare the sub-grants, but they were not signed as the state was entering an in serious
institutional crisis which affected all its operation.
72.     The Mid-Term Review (MTR): The MTR occurred in September 2008, after about two
years of project implementation. The Borrower provided a good report based on the work of two
consultants. The MTR indicated that the two first CFPs followed the guidelines and the selected
subprojects contributed to the PDO. The success of the different subprojects varied a lot, and all
projects would have benefitted from more direct TA. The MTR also concluded that AFAP was
not able to carry out the microcredit activities. In addition, the M&E system was weak and
needed to be improved.
73.     Based on the above, it was agreed to : (i) increase the amount of TA to be provided to
subprojects up to 50% of the value of the grant, (ii) cancel the microcredit component , (iii)
increase the capacity building of ADAP technical staff, (iv) issue the third CFP more in line with
the State’s program “Amapá Produtivo” and (iv) have the PCU submit to the Bank a new M&E
plan, based on the draft presented in the MTR.
    Project at Risk
74.     Project implementation was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory during two periods. The
mid-2007 MU rating was related to the slow disbursement and weak M&E caused in part by
major changes in the project team, including its coordinator. A short-term action plan was
developed and the Bank carried out follow up missions and provided TA. The issue was taken by
the Bank to ADAP senior managers, who acknowledged the issue and explained that it was
caused by the transition of staff and the delay in the annual budget process. The project rating was
upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in April 2008 after the Borrower complied with all steps
defined in action plan except one (project disbursement was still low).
75.     The project was again rated as MU in early 2009, mainly owing to fiduciary issues. The
PCU coordinator and some staff had changed again, the financial management report pointed out
several problems regarding the MIS, and there were delays in presenting the audit report. The
procurement report indicated that several procedural steps needed to be upgraded. In addition,
the M&E plan was not being implemented accordingly. A letter was sent to the Secretary of
Planning with the findings and recommendations. During most of 2009 the Bank team worked
with the PCU to address these issues which progressed, so that ratings were upgraded.

    2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
76.    The Project Design Summary presents a framework consistent with the project
components but not with the stated PDO, specific objectives and their indicators. Some specific
mechanism conducive to learning should have been built into this pilot project to best address the
PDO which aimed at learning lessons from pilot activities.
77.     The Project Design Summary presented four outcome indicators, four specific objectives
with seven indicators, and 46 output indicators. Most of the indicators, including those to access
outcomes, did not have any target values associated to them. This project could a have much
simpler Project Design Summary with fewer outcomes, outputs, and indicators. In addition,
outcomes and outputs should have had measureable targets and baselines.
78.    Three complex questionnaires had been designed to collect information in the field. The
PCU team was overwhelmed by the task of collecting all these data from up to 60 subprojects on
                                                11
a routine basis, and attempted to have these questionnaire filled out in separate field visits from
the PCU supervision staff, without much success. Also, M&E staff changed during the first years
and were not trained for the task. Repeated complaints about the unwieldiness and the usefulness
of the data to be collected led to the decision to employ a consultant in 2008 to review and revise
the M&E plan.
79.     A new, improved M&E system was proposed and adopted at the Mid-Term Review,
which then was used more routinely in the project. The new scheme was more conducive to
produce material for learning lessons and was welcomed as such by both Borrower and Bank
staff. The new system still had 17 impact-related indicators, each with several “key questions” to
be asked, in four main areas: (i) learning lessons on how to reduce rural and urban poverty in
sustainable ways, (ii) contribution to poverty alleviation, (iii) implementation of projects that add
value to local production, generating income and employment, and (iv) strengthen social capital
of beneficiary organizations.
80.      The indicators pertaining to the first area (learning) did not capture, however, the learning
impact as such, but were related to the effectiveness of planning instruments, models of CFP,
institutional partnership, community capacity to formulate proposals and identification of
environmental impacts. While these were certainly crucial ingredients for learning lessons, such
lessons could have been collected more systematically from subproject experience and data. The
number of process (monitoring) indicators was reduced to 18. For all indicators the sources of
information and procedures for obtaining it was carefully specified. Nevertheless, the PCU team
continued to have difficulties in conducting analyses and producing reports based on monitoring
data collected, in part because the system software did not allow for entering the new data and
analyzing them.
      2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
      Safeguards
81.      The project was a Category B. It provided a negative environmental list with activities
which should not be financed by the project, and defined specific environment-related provisions
to be followed during the selection process of subprojects, and during implementation and
supervision (PAD annex 14). The specific environmental-relevant information had to be provided
by the proposed subprojects as part of CFP. Subproject approval was made dependent on the
quality of proposals with regard to environmental protection as well as on the beneficiary
associations having obtained the necessary environmental licenses, or having entered into “terms
of adjustment of conduct” with the state attorney´s office. Safeguards related to indigenous
communities were properly taken into account through a development plan, which included also
other vulnerable communities. The Special Groups Inclusion Strategy (PAD annex 13) for
subprojects was designed to increase representation and attention to ethnic groups, minorities,
women, and adolescents. Culturally-appropriate procedures were defined for subproject design
and approval for indigenous groups and quilombolas. This strategy worked satisfactorily as more
than half of the subprojects funded were for the benefit of the special groups, well above the
project target of ten percent. No other safeguard policies were relevant under the project.
82.      The PCU verified compliance of safeguards through field visits and checked the
necessary licenses and other documentation. Each subproject had a separate file in the office with
all licenses and any field observations. Bank missions scrutinized those files and checked, during
field visits, if those environmental requirements had been observed.
83.      Safeguard issues were handled in a satisfactory manner during implementation.
      Fiduciary Aspects

                                                 12
84.     The existence of an operational Management Information System (MIS), was an
effectiveness condition, considered fulfilled by the Bank. After some time of use, some
inconsistencies were found in the MIS data processing and reporting. The Bank’s FM specialist
worked with the project team and consulting firm which had designed the MIS, and the system
became fully functional in 2009 after all data entered had been re-checked.
85.     Financial management and procurement issues were observed and flagged by Bank
missions throughout the project. PCU staff skills in these areas were lacking, due, in part, to
changes in the PCU team. Even after the Bank intensified training of members of the PCU, staff
trained did not necessarily continue in a given function in the PCU. In addition, PCU staff also
had to carry out tasks for other purposes within the agency. During the last year, financial
management and control were hampered by the fact that financial transactions could be
authorized by ADAP senior management outside the PCU.
86.     Internal control mechanisms in ADAP were relatively weak, particularly with regard to
control of operating expenses (airfares, fuel, and vehicle maintenance) and inventory of furniture
and equipment. Some of these problems were solved, while others persisted to the end. The Bank
declared expenditures totaling about US$500,000 as ineligible for funding under the Loan.
87.      Serious procurement issues were detected during the December 2010 mission to close the
project. They had not been spotted before, despite of all of previous procurement review, either
because the post-review was not able to uncover them, or because the contracts presenting such
defects were not part of the review sample. The issues were reported to the then Governor-Elect.
A follow-up mission including an in-depth procurement post-review took place in February 2011,
after the loan had already closed. Special attention was given to analysis of procurement under
the subprojects and issues were spotted in many of them, with indications of collusion,
overpricing and involvement of ADAP personnel. This was reported to the new president of
ADAP who immediately started an internal investigation. The findings were also reported in the
procurement post-review report. ADAP requested an extension of the deadline to provide the
final audit report in order to amplify its scope in view of the procurement issues. The extension
was granted.

    2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
88.    No follow-up Bank operation has been planned to continue and expand on the pilot SIL.
No specific arrangements for operation and maintenance of funded subprojects are available.
89.      The new administration is designing specific community-driven poverty reduction
programs with its own resources. It is expected that the CFP model tested in this project will be
used in the new programs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
    3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
90.     The stated objectives, learning about how to reduce poverty in the Amazon, were and
continue to be of great relevance for the region. The Country Partnership Strategy 2008-2011
(CPS) mentions investments in frontier areas of the Amazon with large concentrations of poor
people as an area of increased Bank action for a “more equitable Brazil”. At the same time, the
CPS states that the Bank would do less in support of isolated demonstration projects in the
Amazon. In that sense, lessons learned under the project are now less relevant for the Bank, as
they derive from the implementation of small, isolated rural and urban subprojects not inserted
into a larger strategic or programmatic context. However, the ultimate objective of reducing
poverty through promotion of sustainable development has not lost any of its relevance.
                                               13
    3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives
91.      The project was a pilot operation with learning objectives. Rural and urban subprojects
were to be implemented so that lessons learned could be mainstreamed in a larger poverty
reduction program. The lessons learned are discussed in the last chapter of this report. As a pilot,
and after its third CFP, the project had come much closer to a model that could be mainstreamed
in a larger project.
92.     The “results” of the Project Design Matrix were adjusted during implementation with the
indicator and targets presented above as proxy of the more tangible objectives of the project.
(Table 1)
                        Table 1. Results for adjusted Objective Indicators
                        INDICATOR                              TARGET      RESULT        Comments
  Productive family and community enterprises supported and      0             10         5 still in
  implemented urban areas:                                                               place after
                                                                                           project
                                                                                           closing
  Social infrastructure, community development and               30            15         8 still in
  environmental management implemented in the poorest                                    place after
  urban neighborhoods                                                                      project
                                                                                           closing
  Microcredit operation financially sustainable and expanded               Canceled.         No
  operation with focus on the poor.                                                      microcredit
                                                                                             was
                                                                                         extended.
   Productive family and community enterprises supported         15            20         8 still in
  and implemented in rural areas                                                         place after
                                                                                           project
                                                                                           closing
  Social and physical infrastructure improved in the poorest     15             7         5 still in
  rural areas                                                                            place after
                                                                                           project
                                                                                           closing
  Percentage of subprojects benefiting special groups           10%            57%

  Percentage of productive investments financially              50%            43%
  sustainable
  Integrated, participatory and multi-institutional                            no       Management
  management system implemented that builds local capacity                              system was
                                                                                        not created.

93.      The indicators for these results in the Project Design Summary, and noting the absence of
target values, are presented in Table 2:
                             Table 2. Results for adjusted Result Indicators
                              INDICATOR                                             RESULT
  Number of subprojects implemented                                   52
  Community development plans prepared                                None
  New credit lines created                                            None (component canceled)


                                                    14
  Nr. of microcredit loans made                                            None(component canceled)
  Cost-effectiveness of social investment                                  Not analyzed
  No. of beneficiary communities involved in project                       247 made proposals, 55
                                                                           received grants, 52 used them
  Number of forums or similar groups participating                         None (or not evaluated)
  Number of special groups participating                                   30 out of the 52 groups that
                                                                           implemented subprojects
  Project management structure functioning                                 Yes
  Partners trained and capable of implementing project                     Training provided but no
                                                                           assessment made


94.      Subprojects, particularly the urban ones, were smaller than expected at appraisal. The
average subproject cost was about R$74,000 (R$42,000 urban, R$107,000 rural), whereas the
PAD expected R$140,000 for urban subprojects and R$75-100,000 for rural ones. The difference
observed in the cost of urban subprojects is a result of changes made during implementation. In
the original design, urban subprojects were to focus on social and physical infrastructure which
costs more than productive activities. However, demand for productive urban subprojects was
identified during implementation and the CFPs adjusted accordingly. As a result, instead of the
expected 30 social infrastructure urban subprojects the project supported 15 such subprojects and
10 productive urban subprojects.
95.      The relative isolation of subprojects and their non-insertion in a local political or state-
program context must be noted. There was substantial discussion at the Mid-term Review and in
drafting the third CFP of linking the subprojects to the state´s “Amapá Produtivo” program with
its priorities by regions and products. However, this effort has not led to significant results.
96.      It is likely that more subprojects could have been funded and more communities included
if there had been fewer problems and delays with state counterpart funding and if the third CFP
had been implemented on time.
97.      About half of the projects funded were still active five months after completion of the
project (May 2011) and may be considered a success (Table 3).
                          Table 3. Status subprojects after the Project closed
               Status         Rural         Urban         Social   Productive      Total
               Active             13         13            13         13            26
               Inactive           14         12             9         17            26
               Total              27         25            24         30            52

98.     An analysis of data from 29 subprojects (1st and 2nd CFPs) between June 2009 and June
2010, brought the following results:
     In 92% of subprojects beneficiary respondents “felt better” than before the project.
     Principal benefits reported were higher income and self-esteem (80%), increased
        information and knowledge (16%), better management capacity (4%).
     In 32% of subprojects learning about management in general and about natural resource
        management in particular has occurred.


                                                     15
           60 % of respondents consider as a key element for success the degree of commitment and
            organization of the community, and 36% the technical assistance they received. Other
            success factors mentioned by respondents were: available transport infrastructure (36%),
            partnerships (32%), information and knowledge in the community (12%).
           28% of subprojects managed to make further investments, the same percentage that
            reported counting on reliable partners.
99.      The project was expected to produce also other knowledge of relevance for poverty
reduction, including zoning efforts for urban wetlands, studies of sustainable development
alternatives for quilombola communities and studies related to the regularization of quilombo
lands. While such knowledge was not generated during the implementation period, the quilombo
studies are now underway with the state’s own funds, representing a late, but positive outcome.

       3.3. Efficiency
100.    No financial ex-post analysis of AFAP and its microcredit program was carried out, since
the associated project subcomponent was cancelled. The PAD contained economic cost-benefit
analyses of some typical productive community investments. These were not repeated with actual
subproject data yet.
101.     Actual project expenditure was about US$ 3.4 million, or about 50% of US$ 6.75 million
                                                                                        1
estimated at appraisal. The appreciation of the local currency during the project period increased
expenditures expressed in US dollars. Less than 10% of the shortfall is explained by the
cancellation of the microcredit subcomponent. Urban subprojects fell particularly short of
appraisal estimates, as they turned out to be on average 70% smaller than estimated originally.
Rural subproject expenditure was about 64% of the appraisal estimate, although their average cost
was about the same (in local currency) as estimated. Very little of Component B was executed,
but capacity building under Component D (actually project management and administration,
M&E, publicity campaign) consumed 20% more than expected at appraisal, or 37% of total
project expenditure, suggesting low project efficiency.

       3.4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
102.    At completion, the project had come close to the expected number of subprojects (52 out
of 600), spent about 55% of the revised loan funds and exceeded the expected support to the
special groups of beneficiaries (indigenous people, quilombos, poor women and adolescents)
adequately. Half of the subprojects are still active and producing benefits to the associated
community in terms of income, employment, inclusion, better transport infrastructure and other
dimensions of well-being, as expected. On the other hand, the capacity building activities were
not well implemented and studies such as of the quilombola communities were not carried out.

       3.5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
        (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
103.    In as far as subprojects were successful in getting to an initial level of achievement of
their own objectives and continue to exist and operate (26 out of 52, or 50%), they definitely
contribute to reduction of poverty by increasing, employment income, inclusion or security of


1
    (R$2.86/US$1.00 at appraisal as against R$2.18 at project start and R$ 1.77 in 2010)

                                                            16
poor urban and rural families. It is estimated that some 1,000 families participated in the selected
proposals, and some 400 families in the successful subprojects that continued after the project
closed.
104.     Where subprojects continue, more families participate at the time of final assessment than
at startup, in most cases. Also, community associations have become stronger, more so apparently
in rural than in urban communities. Thus, the project has created new social capital.
105.    The attention that the project gave to the four special groups (indigenous communities,
quilombolas, poor women and adolescents), and their level of participation far exceeded the ten
percent allocation expected at appraisal. Special groups were beneficiaries of 12 of 27 rural
subprojects and 18 out the 25 urban subprojects (Table 4)
                Table 4. Number of Subprojects which benefitted Special Groups
              Group            Rural      Urban        Social    Productive    Total
              Indigenous         2          -            -           2          2
              Quilombo           2          4            3           3          6
              Adolescents        4          7           10           1          11
              Women              4          7            1          10          11
              Other             15          7            8          14          22
               Total            27         25           22          30          52


        (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
106.     The strengthening of the state´s development agency, ADAP, was sought as an
intermediate result, as a means for implementing the project, not as an independent goal. Such
strengthening did occur, with improved physical conditions (space, vehicles, equipment) and with
increased capacity of staff to deal with the processes of subproject appraisal, selection and
monitoring, as well as with financial management and procurement matters. The learning effort,
especially in the fiduciary aspects, was substantial after 2007, due to the close and insistent
attention that Bank staff gave to these matters.
107.     The strengthening of the rural development agency, RURAP, did not occur for the
institution as such, but some of its staff participated in the learning process.
        (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
108.    The State government has noted with satisfaction how the process of CFP has improved
governance of community development and poverty reduction programs, and that it has been
adopted by other state agencies. For the state government, the development, adoption and
continuous improvement of the CFP methodology for soliciting and evaluating community
proposals was an important discovery and factor of success, particularly to improve governance
and transparency of community development and poverty reduction programs. The procedure was
not foreseen in project design and was developed by state personnel with support from the Bank.
As a result, the CFP methodology has helped to create a new, more trustful relationship between
communities and NGOs on one hand and the state government on the other.
109.    Project management, in its evaluation of the project, that the project has taught
government several lessons with positive impacts for governance of state program, among them
how to:
    give greater attention to environmental impacts assessment and mitigation;
    increase attention to vulnerable communities (indigenous people, quilombolas);
    increase their understanding of poor people´s reality, needs, constraints and opportunities;

                                                  17
       build a new and more trustful relationship of communities and NGOs with state
        government under the CFP procedure; and
       replicate of some successful sub-projects concepts by other communities.
110.    The fact that the state government is funding the quilombola-related studies with its own
resources and after the project has been completed, demonstrates a new attitude towards the needs
of vulnerable communities. Overall, the project appears to have opened up a new vision of
development and poverty reduction among those that have been actively involved.
111.     Both PCU assessment and self-assessment of associations emphasize as a benefit the
adoption of greater managerial and financial discipline within the successful associations, which
will be useful far beyond any externally-funded project.
112.    The Project management also points to the fact that several of the subproject ideas were
picked up and repeated by other communities, as a demonstration effect.

    3.6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey
113.    In May 2011, five months after completion of the project, the PCU conducted a rapid
survey among all of the 52 associations that had actually carried out a project (54 had been
funded, but two returned the funds without implementation). The survey consisted of two sets of
eight questions; one set for production subprojects and one for services/infrastructure subprojects
(see Annex 5).
114.     The success rate – defined as objectives reached and project activities continuing – was
about 50% overall, both for urban and for rural subprojects combined. It was lower among
productive subprojects (about 42%) than among the social ones (63%). Some not successful
subprojects felt that success may still be reached (15% among production projects, and 5% for
social projects). The higher success rate for social subprojects may be related to the origin and
ownership of the subprojects. Social subprojects were usually a result of a bottom-up process
originating within the community. Production-type subprojects were often induced by
suggestions or advice from outside the community, and often were not based on a thorough cost-
benefit analysis and a minimal business plan.
115.     In the case of the successful production projects, responses to the questions exploring
several dimensions of success and failure (see Annex 5) were usually either all positive or
negative. It is difficult to say what type of production project is more likely to succeed, except
that all manioc-processing mills, a typical small undertaking also popular in the RPAP, failed.
The urban production projects were somewhat more successful (50%) than the rural ones (39%),
probably because of better access to technical assistance, markets, information and similar
experiences.
116.    Services subprojects also showed mostly uniform answers to the questions related to
dimensions of success and failures, i.e., were are either all positive or all negative, with one
exception: five out of twelve successful projects were considered to have good chances to
continue, but do not have the funds for operation and maintenance. This is an inconsistency that
would be worth pursuing further. Rural services/infrastructure projects were more likely to
succeed than urban ones.
117.    The associations themselves cited the following lessons learned and experiences made:
       In successful subprojects, the community feels empowered, encouraged, stronger, and
        ready to engage in further undertakings.
       Quick, superficial planning can lead to unexpected disasters later on, especially when risk
        factors were not well identified. Several subprojects failed because they lost the physical
                                                18
       space where they were supposed to work, did not have electricity when needed, lacked
       cash for unforeseen expenditures, had inadequate study of markets for their products, or
       did not have the necessary documents ready when requested by the authorities. Some
       relied on their own unskilled labor contribution and had to learn that this was not a viable
       option.
      Technical assistance is crucial for success, both in the strict technical sense, but also for
       financial management, procurement and internal organization.
      Partnerships are essential for success, but may cause unpleasant surprises when they have
       not been tested before, break down or do not materialize as expected.
      Procurement by rules (shopping) was difficult to learn, but once understood is perceived
       as useful.
      Associations learned to apply financial discipline through proper accounting for funds.
      Delays in disbursing government funds to subprojects can seriously harm a subproject,
       leads to lack of trust and commitment of associates and may cause them to give up and
       walk away.
      Project planning must go beyond investment planning; it must include financial and
       organizational arrangements for continuity and sustainability. Funds for operation and
       maintenance have often not been planned for and were sorely missing.
      The need for good management of an association (or of its subproject), for internal
       transparency and harmony, and for effective communication with associates is often
       overlooked. Several subprojects failed owing to bad internal management.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High
118.     The continuity of those community undertakings in sustainable production and
social/infrastructure that have survived until now is at risk. The project agency ADAP will not
implement further community-driven development projects, and it is not clear how the new state
government will promote such development. It is also not clear whether the Government will
continue providing assistance to ongoing community subprojects owing to the changes of
ADAP’s role.
119.     Other project impacts, including unintended ones as discussed above, should be more
lasting and do not appear at risk. Lessons, if they are effectively learned by government rather
than only by individual staff, should not get lost.



5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
   5.1. Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
120.    The Bank, dedicated substantial efforts particularly to social and environmental matters
during project preparation and appraisal. However, the project design should have been more
flexible with fewer components, to be more compatible with a small pilot project aimed at
generating lessons learned. The Project Design Matrix should have been shorter with fewer
                                                 19
outcomes, objectives, results and indicators; and all of them should have had clear measureable
targets.
121.    The Bank task team changed in 2003 without a handover mission. The new team did not
include some key members of the previous team. Thus, some institutional memory and the
continuity of expertise and experience with other programs (RPAP, RFPP) were not fully used.
122.    During the over three years between appraisal and project start, several changes happened
as a result of the change in state government in 2003, but not immediately and not necessarily
perceivable at appraisal or negotiations. For example the institutional crisis of AFAP surface six
months before negotiations and should have been addressed at that time.
123.     The Bank was helpful by supporting the project team, between 2005 and 2006, in getting
the project ready to start and to get conditions for signing and effectiveness of the loan, and for
signing of the federal guarantee, fulfilled at the federal and state level. During that time, the Bank
noted several changes in project procedures with regard to subproject selection, and accepted
them flexibly and informally. This helped to get the project acting rapidly after it had actually
started in 2006. Still, a general review of project design after the long period between appraisal
and startup (three years) would have been in order in 2006, with necessary and justified
adjustments to project design and implementation made explicit as soon as possible.
124.     The Bank applied all safeguard policies that were relevant to the project, with special
attention given to vulnerable groups and compliance with environmental safeguards in
subprojects.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
125.     Supervision throughout the project was reasonably thorough. Eleven full supervision
missions were carried out between late 2006 and late 2010. One additional mission was carried
out in early 2011 after the project was closed. In addition, PCU staff held at least one mission per
year to Bank´s office in Brasilia to follow up on next steps agreed on supervision missions and to
get assistance on administrative matters. The Bank accompanied the CFP processes and their
selection results, and made field visits to about a third of the subprojects.
126.     Financial management and procurement received full attention to all details of flow of
funds, accounting, reporting, procurement, inventories, etc, by field office staff, including several
special supervision missions. This included detecting collusion among suppliers, lax control over
vehicle use and maintenance and over fuel consumption, leading the Bank to declare several
expenditure items as ineligible. Once enough data was entered in MIS, the Bank identified
inconsistencies in the system and worked closely with the PCU to resolve the situation.
127.     The Bank reacted forcefully when serious problems were caused by ADAP or the
Borrower´s Planning Secretariat not making counterpart funds available to the project in a timely
manner, so that funds could be disbursed to subprojects. It also reacted strongly when the legal
basis for the PCU within ADAP disappeared by a legal act of the governor.
128.    The Mid-Term Review addressed the essential aspects of design and implementation that
needed change. The adjustments to the M&E system were especially welcome, given the project
objective. A fully justified extension of the closing date was granted, but only after having
received evidence of measures taken by the Borrower to accelerate implementation.
129.   The attention devoted to resolve the recurring procurement and financial issues by the
Bank may have affected the attention dedicated to the monitoring aspects of subprojects. The
team continuously reminded the project staff of the central objective of the project - learning

                                                 20
lessons on how to reduce poverty – but could have worked more closely with PCU to ensure full
implementation of an M&E system which would have led to such learning.
130.    Compliance with the Environmental Management Plan and applicable safeguards was
supervised satisfactorily.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
131.     The moderately unsatisfactory rating is based on a balance between the positive and weak
aspects of project preparation and implementation. Preparation could have benefitted from greater
consistency between PDO and project design with a clearer results matrix. Preparation should
have adjusted the project design as it took four years between PCN and loan signing and as there
were marked changes in the state political context during that period. During implementation, the
Bank team ensured that the third CFP benefitted from the lessons learned from the previous CFPs,
and provided frequent and effective assistance on management, procurement and financial issues.
However, it could have provided more assistance for the implementation of the M&E system
which, at first was affected by a complex results matrix without measurable targets and was later
hampered by the lack of technical assistance. Such TA was to be supported with project resources
but the lack of counterpart funds in the critical last years of the project affected the contracting of
the TA as well as other studies.

    5.2. Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory
132.    In the beginning, the Borrower (Government of Amapá) showed good ownership and
commitment to the project, but less to the achievement of the learning objective. The Borrower
took an overly long time after Board approval (18 months) to comply with conditions for loan
signing and effectiveness.
133.     The Borrower changed the PCU coordinator three times during the project
implementation along with several team members. In addition, it changed the structure of ADAP
and distributed the PCU staff among different ADAP departments. Once the Bank made it clear
that this was a violation of the loan agreement the PCU was recreated. Borrower performance
was also lacking when loan and counterpart funds were not made available in a timely manner to
the project and its subprojects, and when new state legislation did away with the PCU.
134.    Changes in government policies and priorities in 2007 and 2008, related to the
implementation of the federal Growth Acceleration Program (PAC), and greater emphasis on
non-reimbursable sources of funds for development, led to decreased attention to the project and
the loan by and within ADAP, with significant negative impacts on project implementation.
135.    AFAP never recovered from its 2004 institutional crisis, which led to the cancelation of
the microcredit subcomponent of the project. The broader 2010 institutional crisis which brought
charges against the then Governor and Vice-Governor brought the state to a halt. Counterpart
funds were not provided in time which severely impacted project implementation and M&E
during the last year of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

                                                 21
136.     The PCU carried out its function, but with diminishing support from ADAP senior
management during project implementation. ADAP had been in a weakening phase since 2003.
Until 2007, it continued to exist principally for purposes of this project and an IDB urban
infrastructure project (which was never signed). Once loan funds became available, ADAP gave
reasonable autonomy to the PCU, whose working conditions improved considerably.
137.    This changed drastically in 2007, when ADAP had to attend to new, larger
responsibilities, i.e., to managed the Growth Acceleration Program of the State. After that time,
autonomy and efficiency of the PCU diminished, and project activities suffered significantly.
ADAP changed the PCU coordinator three times during 4.5 years of project implementation.
138.    The performance of the PCU improved over the period 2009 to 2010, although there was
a serious delay in contracting and funding the selected subprojects from the third CFP, leaving
just about six months for the subprojects to be executed.
139.    It was during this time that the Borrower did not make sufficient counterpart funds
available in the project account, which led to a reduction of the number of subprojects to be
funded (from 15 to 9) and to delays in sub-grant disbursement.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
140.    The rating is based on a balance between the positive effort made by the PCU during the
lifetime of the project and the lack of attention given by the Borrower’s senior management,
including avoidable delays in making available state budget funds. Most of the problems
encountered during implementation such as lack of timely counterpart funds and administrative
issues could have not been addressed at the PCU level.

6. Lessons Learned
141.     The project was meant specifically to learn lessons about Amazon-specific approaches
how to reduce urban and rural poverty in a sustainable way. As was stated under Project
Outcome above, some lessons of that kind have been explicitly drawn and documented. The
project has also yielded a number of other lessons that warrant stating or re-stating, even if they
are not entirely new in the context of Bank lending in Brazil and elsewhere.
    Project-level
142.    Seeking simplicity. This is certainly not a new lesson, but the design of this project
should have followed it. Packaging an urban and a rural development component, microcredit,
enhancement of public administration and special treatment for selected groups into one rather
small loan and putting that all into the hands of an inexperienced, weak agency should be avoided.
143.     Timing of preparation. Long delays between appraisal and project start-up may require
revisiting and revising the project before or after signing/effectiveness. Three years passed
between appraisal and startup of the project. Many things changed during that period, such as the
disappearing of municipal forums, the diminishing importance and weakening structure of the
executing agency, ADAP, the severe deterioration of AFAP, and the understanding of the nature
and importance of the project. The long delay in getting to loan signing should have been
understood as a signal of such changes happening.
144.    Funding channel. By choosing to make a loan to a state government, loan funds had to
pass necessarily through the state´s budget. This has two possible risks: funds may not be made
available by the budget administration in adequate amounts, or they may be released too late.
Both things have happened under the project, although problems with the timely availability of
                                                22
counterpart budget funds were also a serious problem. An alternative could be to channel funds
through NGOs. (The Amazon Protected Areas Projects funded by GEF and the Demonstration
Projects under RFPP are good examples of successful alternative funding mechanisms.)
145.     Using CFP. The Call-for-proposal methodology of implementing public support to
development has proven to be quite viable and effective. It brings great benefits in terms of
transparency of the process, equitable chances to participate, respect for the autonomy of
communities in deciding what they need, and, to a lesser degree, filtering lower quality proposals.
It avoids favoring specific clienteles by government agencies and paternalistic or patronizing
attitudes. Government priorities as to certain regions, target groups, development activities etc,
can easily be incorporated into CFPs.
146.     The three-step screening and preparation process for subproject proposals employed in
the third CFP may serve as a model for other projects: when an association submits a proposal, a
first technical and legal screening is applied by technical project staff, upon which unsuitable and
ineligible proposals are returned. On a second step, the selection committee, in which
government agencies and civil society organizations as well academia are represented, discussed
and ranks the remaining proposals for merit, using a point system. On a third step, associations
are invited, in the order of their ranking and within the available budget for the CFP, to prepare
their proposals in more detail. This preparation involves the project agency and the assistance
from other public or private agencies. Grants are signed only when all legal requirements are
fulfilled, including environmental licenses.
147.     Avoiding stand-alone projects. Subprojects should be linked to and supported by local
government and other programs of government and/or the private sector, thus creating synergies.
Several well designed subprojects had their sustainability and impact negatively affected owing to
the lack of such interaction.
    Subproject level
148.    Providing ample time for preparation and implementation. The discussion and
selection of subproject ideas by communities and identification of a community takes time.
Pressure to implement rapidly tends to leave little time between a call for proposals (CFP) and the
deadline for submission. The first CFP under the project gave only 30 days for submission. This
often tends to favor ideas and pet projects offered by well-meaning outsiders, without the
necessary internal discussion, studies of markets, viability of technologies, etc., and without true
ownership in the community.
149.    Selecting existing organizations. Organizations created specifically for participation in
CFPs are not likely to come up with viable, sustainable proposals. The project should require that
community agreement on a proposal be documented in the Minutes of a general assembly of their
association. This was strengthened in the third CFP which required a minimum time of prior legal
existence of an association.
150.    Strengthening existing activities. Subprojects that supplement, expand or diversify an
already ongoing activity appear to have much better chances of survival than undertakings that
are totally new to the community. Several productive subprojects were proposed by outside
technical staff. While some of them had good potential, they proved to be too innovative for the
communities to implement. While the new idea were embrace by the communities once
implementation started there was clear competition for time with the productive activities already
carried out by the communities. As it takes time for a start up activity to generate results even
with provision of good TA, communities tended to work on their regular productive activities and
gradually lost interest in the new ones


                                                23
151.      Providing institutional capacity training. This type of training should be included in all
subprojects. Poor communities and their associations have minimal or no capacity to cope with
financial management and procurement, initially. Before funds are disbursed to associations,
some minimum training must be given, to enable them to observe basic rules of financial
management, reporting, procurement and contracting. A lot of hand-holding from project staff
will still be required thereafter. A frequent factor leading to failure of a subproject was internal
management and organization problems, including conflict among leaders or between
leaders/managers and beneficiary, as well as vanishing commitment of the community,
particularly after initial difficulties had been experienced.
152.     Providing technical assistance for preparation and implementation. The project
demonstrated clearly the paramount importance of TA to community associations, both for
preparation of their proposals and for implementation, even after grants have been accounted for.
The project attempted, with some success, to mobilize state and federal government agencies for
this purpose. With the scarcity of quality sources of TA in the state, the alternative would have
been contracting consultants or consulting firms from all of Brazil, but this also has limited
chances, as know-how and technology of the type required in the Amazonian context and given
its natural resources is not so widespread. Perhaps a large contract with a firm to attend to the
needs of the entire project could have been contemplated.
153.     Developing simplified business plans. A suitable methodology should be developed to
draw up minimum business plans with less experienced communities and associations, and such
minimum business plans should be required to receive a grant. In a social and economic sense,
the loss involved in the failure of a grant-funded project is just as great as in the case of a credit-
funded project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
154.     The Borrower’s letter of June 27, 2011 (Annex 7) expresses broad consensus with the
Bank’s project assessment detailed in the ICR. The Borrower regrets that despite the commitment
of PCU staff project implementation had serious problems which resulted in the rating of
moderately unsatisfactory. The Borrower considers it unfortunate that a small pilot project aimed
at such important goal faced many problems due to inadequate management of the institution.
155.    The Borrower points out, however, that the current State administration took office only
this year, after the project was closed. It also stresses its commitment to the original goals of the
project as demonstrated by contracting the anthropological studies regarding quilombola
populations with the government´s own funds.
(b) Cofinanciers, ther partners and stakeholders
156.    None involved. The IDB project identified during preparation did not materialize.




                                                  24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                    Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal Estimate                         Percentage of
             Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                             (USD millions)                             Appraisal
                                                                       millions)
URBAN COMMUNITY
                                                     1.79                    0.38           21%
DEVELOPMENT SUP-PROJECTS
STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONS
                                                     1.02                    0.14           14%
FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
RURAL COMMUNITY
                                                     2.50                    1.61           64%
DEVELOPMENT SUBPROJECTS
CAPACITY BUILDING                                    1.05                    1.26           120%
                    Total Baseline Cost              6.36                    3.39           53%

Physical Contingencies
                                                     0.33                    0.00

Price Contingencies
                                                     0.06                    0.00
                      Total Project Costs            6.75                    3.39           50%
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.00                    0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.02                    0.02
            Total Financing Required                 6.77                    3.39           50%




(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                             Type of Co-      Estimate        Estimate    Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                              financing                                    Appraisal
                                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                                    1.97          0.91           46%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                            4.80          2.48           52%
and Development




                                                    25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component A: Urban subprojects                                  Appraisal             Achieved
Number and type of urban subprojects                                30                    25
                                                                 15 social/          15 social (no
                                                             infrastructure, 15   infrastructure), 10
                                                              production type      production type
Number of urban subprojects in operation after subproject            -                    13
completion
Number of poor urban households participating                        -                     -
Number of formal neighborhood associations participating             -                    24
Growth in number of formal neighborhood associations                 -                   n/a
Number of subproject proposals submitted                             -                   137
Number of women, youth, indigenous people or quilombola              -                    18
groups with approved/funded subprojects
Number of subprojects with environment-oriented activities           -                    1


Component B: Strengthening Institutions: was not implemented, no outputs


Component C: Rural subprojects                                  Appraisal             Achieved
Number and type of rural subprojects                                30                    27
                                                                 15 socio-             7 socio-
                                                             environmental, 15    environmental, 20
                                                              production type      production type
Number of rural subprojects operation one and two years              -                    13
after subproject completion
Cost-effectiveness of basic infrastructure and socio-                -                   n/a
environmental subprojects
Economic efficiency and financial viability of productive            -                   n/a
subprojects
Number of formal community associations to total number of           -                   n/a
communities in project area
Growth in number of community and productive associations            -                   n/a
Number of subproject proposals submitted                             -                   110
Percentage of women in Municipal Development Forums                                      n/a
and community associations
Number of women, youth, indigenous people or quilombola                                   12
groups with approved/funded subprojects
Number of subprojects with environment-oriented activities                                10




                                                        26
Component D: Capacity Building for                                                             Result
Participatory Management and Technical
Assistance
Reinforce and strengthen ADAP and PCU capacity                         PCU with moderately adequate capacity in last
to adequately manage the project, both technically                                  years of project
and financially
Monitoring and evaluation system                                    Modified M&E system functioning during last two
                                                                    years of project
Collaboration with state and federal environmental                  Satisfactory
agencies


Average subproject cost at approval, in R$ million

          
                          Social           Productive                  Both

Rural                                              106.8                      107.1
                                    108.3           

Urban                                 43.3             40.6                         
                                                                                   42.2

Both                                  64.0             84.7                         
                                                                                   75.9

List of projects by Call for proposal, category (urban or rural) and beneficiary group
(M = women, I = indigenous, Q = quilombola, J = adolescents, N = others)
                                                                                                                    Active
                                                                                           Urban        Amount      after
 CFP         Organization                         Objective                        Group   or           BRL$1,000   project
                                                                                           Rural                    closing
                                 Promover a sustentabilidade
         Associação das          financeira da associação e a inclusão
         amigas e donas de       econômica das associadas, através da                                   20          Y
 1       casa rainha da paz      produção de confecções.                           M       U

         Assoc. Educacional      Segurança alimentar das crianças
         irmã marisa             atendidas através da criação de                                        27          N
 1       nicolodi                galinha com ração alternativa.                    N       U
         Associação de
         radiodifusão            Produção de documentários
         comunitária do          educativos sobre sexualidade na                                        29          N
 1       estado do amapá         adolescência e prevenção de DST's.                J       U

         Associação agrícola     Facilitar o acesso ao Assentamento
         dos produtores do       do Cruzeiro através da pavimentação                                    156         N
 1       cruzeiro                do ramal.                                         N       R
                                 Gerar alternativa de trabalho e renda
                                 para a mulher mãe do vale do jari,
                                 garantindo que a floresta e seus
         Associação de mães      insumos sejam manejados de forma
         artesâs do vale do      sustentável, combinando educação,                                      46          N
 1       jari - AMARTE           produção, mercado.                                M       U


                                                               27
                                                                                                    Active
                                                                                Urban   Amount      after
CFP      Organization                       Objective                   Group   or      BRL$1,000   project
                                                                                Rural               closing

      Associação dos          Produção de óleo vegetal a partir de
      povos indígenas         espécies florestais disponíveis na                        73          Y
1     waiãpi                  comunidade.                               I       R
                              Alternativa de trabalho e renda para a
      Cooperativa de          juventude, garantindo que a floresta e
      artefatos naturais do   seus insumos sejam manejados de                           111         N
1     rio das castanhas       forma sustentável.                        J       R
                              Favorecer a geração de trabalho e
                              renda dos cooperados através do
      Cooperativa dos         desenvolvimento da piscicultura
      produtores rurais do    familar, aumentando a qualidade de                        73          N
1     matapi                  vida rural.                               N       R

      Instituto sócio         Inclusão digital, proporcionando
      cultural renasce        aprendizado profissional a                                24          Y
1     jari-ISCRJ              comunidade de baixa renda.                J       U

      Associação dos
      produtores do           Recuperação de áreas degradadas e                         52          N
1     ipixuna miranda         manejo de açaizais nativos                N       R

      Diocese de macapá       Proporcionar a geração de renda das
      - casa da               famílias carentes da comunidade                           22          N
1     hospitalidade I         através da arte em corte e costura.       N       U
      União dos               Possibilitar acesso a Internet a classe
      estudantes dos          estudantil de Macapá, através da
      cursos secundários      implantação de uma biblioteca                             24          Y
1     do amapá                virtual.                                  J       U
                              Possibilitar a inclusão social e
      Associação de           econômica de mulheres soro
      amigas e mulheres       positivas, através da confecção de
      amapaenses              roupas e acessórios, possibilitando a                     20          Y
1     posithivas              geração de renda.                         M       U

                              Instalação de unidades produtivas
      Associação galibi       capazes de gerar emprego e renda à                        47          Y
1     marworno                Comunidade.                               I       R
      Movimento               Oportunizar acesso a capacitação
      afrodescendente do      profissional de jovens negros do
      amapá -                 bairro do pacoval, por meio da                            23          Y
1     MOCAMBO                 inclusão digital.                         Q       U
      Associação de
      mulheres                Promover a auto-sustentabilidade da
      caminhando pela         associação de mulheres caminhando                         12          Y
1     liberdade social        pela liberdade social.                    M       U

      Associação              Estruturar uma micro-industria de
      carnavalesca unidos     confecção comunitária, gerando                            23          N
1     do novo horizonte       emprego e renda.                          M       U
                              Favorecer a regularização do Curso
                              técnico em agro-extrativismo da
      ASSOC. ESCOLA           Escola Família Agroextrativista do
      FAMÍLIA                 Carvão, mediante a Construção de
      AGROEXTRATIV            laboratório de controle de qualidade
      ISTA DO                 e processamento de matéria prima                          92          Y
1     CARVÃO                  vegetal.                                  J       R

                                                        28
                                                                                                   Active
                                                                               Urban   Amount      after
CFP      Organization                       Objective                  Group   or      BRL$1,000   project
                                                                               Rural               closing
      Ass. dos Trab. do       Diversificação da mão-de-obra
      assentamento            familiar e da produção das famílias
      agroextrativista do     de vinte mulheres do Assentamento                        22          N
1     anauerapucu             Anauerapucu.                             M       R
      Associação das
      mulheres                Aproveitamento sustentável dos
      produtoras              buritizeiros da região da Foz do Rio
      agroextrativistas da    Mazagão Velho para produção de
      foz do rio mazagão      subprodutos para a alimentação,                          47          Y
1     velho.                  artesanato e óleos vegetais.             M       R

      Ass. evangélica         Promover a Inclusão digital de
      bom samaritano da       jovens e adultos, inserindo-os no                        24          Y
1     assembléia de deus      mercado de trabalho.                     J       U

      Sindicato dos traba.
      rurais de Vitória       Viabilizar a produção de frango de                       67          Y
1     Jari                    corte caipirão, na comunidade.           N       U
                              Promover e incentivar à prática de
                              esportes, atividades recreativas
      Renovação esporte       educativas e de lazer para despertar a                   18          N
1     clube                   consciência cidadã.                      J       U
      Ass. dos prod.
      Rurais agro-            Promover profissionalmente as
      extrativistas do ass.   mulheres mães e adolescentes do                          48          Y
1     nova colina             assentamento.                            M       R
      Rede das
      associações das         Produção de ração balanceada
      escolas famílias do     c/aproveitamento recursos da floresta                    126         Y
1     Amapá                   para a criação de aves.                  N       R
                              Ampliar as oportunidades de
                              negócios para os extrativistas do sul
      Cooperativa mista       do Estado do Amapá, vinculados a
      dos trabalhadores       COOPERALCA, apartir da
      agro-extrativistas      introdução de boas práticas de coleta,
      do alto cajari-         armazenamento e processamento                            59          Y
2     cooperalca              artesanal da castanha do Brasil.         N       R
      Ass.desenvolviment      Ampliar a renda dos produtores
      o rural do              familiares do Assentamento Cujubim
      assentamento do         através da melhoria do processo e                        92          N
2     cujubim-ADERAC          comercialização de arroz.                N       R
      Assosiação de           Ampliar as atividades produtivas de
      Amparo ao Detento       detentos e ex-detentos através da
      e Ex-detento -          produção de vassouras com fios de                        35          N
2     ASADE                   garrafas PET.                            N       U
                              Proporcionar trabalho e renda a um
      Associação das          grupo de mulheres residentes no
      mulheres                bairro Jardim Felicidade I, através da
      empreendedoras do       implantação de uma oficina de
      bairro jardim           beneficiamento de sementes da flora
      felicidade i -          regional e um ateliê de confecção de                     32          N
2     amebjaf.                bijuterias.                              M       U

                              Melhorar o atendimento pré-escolar
      Associação Raio de      das crianças do Centro Educacional                       26          N
2     Esperança               Pimentinha Margareth.                    N       U


                                                        29
                                                                                                  Active
                                                                              Urban   Amount      after
CFP      Organization                     Objective                   Group   or      BRL$1,000   project
                                                                              Rural               closing
      Ass. dos trab.         Ampliar as oportunidades de
      familiares do          comercialização de produtos
      assentamento           agropecuários provenientes das
      agroextrativista do    propriedades ribeirinhas dos rios
      anauerapucu -          Anauerapucu e Vila Nova com                              50          N
2     ATFA.                  aquisição de transporte fluvial.         N       R
      Conselho das Ass.
      de moradores das
      com. afro-             Ampliação das atividades da cadeia
      descendentes do        produtiva do bambu e formalização                        39          Y
2     amapá - CCADA          legal de uma cooperativa                 Q       U
      Associação dos         Gerar trabalho e renda para os filhos
      moradores e            dos associados levando informações
      agricultores da        e entretenimento às comunidades
      comunidade de          serranas através da exibição de
      pedra preta -          documentários, filmes e outras                           44          N
2     amapep                 produções filmográficas.                 J       R

      Ass. agricultores de
      são pedro dos bois -   Fortalecer o Pólo de Meliponicultura                     85          Y
2     ASPEB                  da Comunidade São Pedro dos Bois         Q       R

      Colônia Z1 de          Melhorar as condições do trabalho
      pescadores de          educativo, mediante a reestruturação                     33          N
2     Macapá                 de sua sede recreativa.                  N       U
                             Proporcionar o fortalecimento da
      Associação dos         produção familiar rural, com a
      moradores              introdução de uma nova cultura
      produtores e           (apicultura) capaz de gerar mais
      extrativistas de       oportunidade de trabalho e renda                         69          Y
2     padaria                para as famílias.                        N       R
                             Melhorar o atendimento às crianças
                             abrigadas, através de reforma dos
      Centro família santa   espaços de lazer, de alimentação e de                    37          Y
2     tereza                 higienização da Creche.                  N       U
                             Intensificar a integração das famílias
      Ass. moradores e       quilombolas do Ambé, através da
      prod.                  utilização de um regime semi-
      remanescentes de       intensivo de criação de galinhas                         94          N
2     quilombo do ambé       caipiras.                                Q       U
                             Contribuir para a inclusão sócio-
                             econômica de trinta pessoas
      Associação de          portadoras do vírus HIV/ os doentes
      mulheres               de AIDS e seus familiares através da
      amapaenses             comercialização de papelão coletados                     38          Y
2     positivas              nas repartições públicas e privadas.     M       U
                             Oportunidade educação tecnológica e
                             acesso à internet aos estudantes,
      Cooperativa            professores e demais moradores do
      agroextrativista do    Distrito do Lourenço, por meio da
      município de           implantação de um centro de                              110         Y
2     calçoene.              inclusão digital.                        J       R
                             Possibilitar aos Comunitários do
      Ass. dos               Distrito do Carvão um espaço
      trabalhadores          adequado à prática de esporte e de
      agroextrativista do    lazer como meio de incentivo a                           70          N
2     carvão - ATAXC         Educação                                 Q       R
                                                      30
                                                                                                  Active
                                                                              Urban   Amount      after
CFP      Organization                      Objective                  Group   or      BRL$1,000   project
                                                                              Rural               closing
      Ass. moradores
      remanescentes de       Implantação de um sistema de
      quilombolas mel        abastecimento de água na                                 110         N
2     pedreira               comunidade Mel da Pedreira               Q       U
      Associação de          Possibilitar a inclusão social dos
      mulheres do bairro     jovens e adultos do bairro Nova
      nova esperança na      Esperança, através de cursos de
      conquista de seus      qualificação profissional em                             33          N
2     ideais                 informática e acesso a internet          J       U
                             Recuperação de 20 Hectares de área
                             degradadas, a segurança alimentar, a
                             geração de renda e a conservação
                             ambiental, através da introdução de
      Associação dos         tecnologias voltadas a produção de
      agricultores do        alimentos o Sistema de Produção                          211         N
3     Munguba                Integrada – PPI.                         N       R
                             Favorecer a locomoção dos
      Ass. trabalhadores     moradores das comunidades
      extrativistas das      mediante a construção de 1000
      com. do curuça e       metros de passarela em madeira de                        236         N
3     furo do maracá         lei.                                     N       R
                             Estruturação da cadeia produtiva de
      Cooperativa dos        pescadores do Município de
      pescadores do          Calçoene, com aquisição de um
      município de           caminhão com termo king equipado                         176         N
3     calçoene               com refrigerador                         N       R
      Associação
      agroextrativista dos   Projeto Alternativa de tração animal,
      produtores e           com aquisição de 20 animais de
      produtoras             carga e 20 carroças, para garantir o
      familiares rurais do   escoamento da produção agrícola dos                      144         N
3     piquia                 associados                               N       R

      Ass. dos Produtores    Melhorar o processo de produção de
      da Com. da Terra       farinha de mandioca da comunidade                        224         Y
3     Preta                  da Terra preta                           N       R
      Ass. de Agric. e       Melhorar o processo de produção de
      moradores do           farinha de mandioca da
      assent. B. Jesus dos   Assentamento Bom Jesus dos                               153         Y
3     Fernandes              fernandes.                               N       R
                             Possibilitar a inclusão social de 300
                             (trezentas) crianças e adolescentes de
                             bairros periféricos do município de
      Associação musical     Macapá por meio de atividades de                         199         N
3     primavera              iniciação e fortalecer a AMUP            J       U

      Coop. Agro-            Melhorar o processo de produção de
      Extrativista da        farinha de mandioca do assentamento                      226         Y
3     Colônia do Cedro       do Cedro                                 N       R
                             Ampliar a capacidade de
      Associação de          comercialização dos subprodutos da
      mulheres do alto       castanha do Brasil produzidos pelas                      97          Y
3     cajari - AMAC          mulheres da AMAC                         M       R




                                                       31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
n/a




                                      32
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
            Names                                  Title                Unit
                                                                                       Specialty
Lending
                                                                               Task Team Leader
Josef Leitmann                    Sr. Urban Planning Specialist       LCSEN
                                                                               /Urban Specialist
                                                                               Task Team Leader /
Maria-Valeria Pena                Sr. Social Development Specialist   LCSEN    Community
                                                                               Development
José Augusto Carvalho             Lead Counsel                        LEGLA    Legal
                                                                               Special groups
Judith Lisansky                   Sr. Anthropologist                  LCSEN
                                                                               treatment
                                                                               Rural and community
Tulio Barbosa                     Sr. Rural Development Specialist    LCSEN
                                                                               development
                                                                               Financial
Regis Cunningham                  Senior Finance Officer
                                                                               Management
                                                                               Community
Werner Kornexl                    Private Sector Specialist           LCSEN
                                                                               Development
                                                                               Financial
Claudio Mittelstädt               Financial Management Specialist     LCCO1
                                                                               Management
Efraim Jimenez                    Sr. Procurement Specialist          LCCO1    Procurement
Barbara Brakarz                   Junior Professional Associate       LCSEN    Operations Analyst

Supervision/ICR
                                                                               Task Team Leader /
Maria-Valeria Pena                Sr. Social Development Specialist   LCSEN    Community
                                                                               Development
Garo Batmanian                    Sr. Environmental Specialist        LCSEN    Task Team Leader
Barbara Brakarz                   Junior Professional Associate        LCSSO Operations Analyst
                                                                               Financial
Joao Vicente Novaes Campos        Financial Management Specialist     LCSFM
                                                                               Management
Frederico Rabello T. Costa        Procurement Specialist               LCSPT Procurement
                                                                               Financial
Jose C. Janeiro                   Senior Finance Officer              CTRFC
                                                                               Management
Kathryn L. Johns Swartz           Consultant                          OPCRX Operations Analyst
                                                                               Financial
Claudio Mittelstaedt              Consultant                          LCSFM
                                                                               Management
Paula Silva Pedreira de Freitas   Operations Analyst                  LCSEN Operations Analyst

                                                       33
Cristina Oliveira Roriz     Operations Analyst                 LCSRF Operations Analyst
                                                                       Financial
Fabson Vogel                Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
                                                                       Management

Maria Jose Vilas Boas Per                                              Social
                            Sr. Social Development & Civil     LCSSO
Weiss                                                                  safeguards
Luciano Wuerzius            Procurement Specialist             LCSPT Procurement
Christoph Diewald           Consultant                                 ICR preparation


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                               8                    63.81
  FY03                                            28                     165.67
  FY04                                               8                    28.70
  FY05                                            10                      40.32

                            Total:                54                     298.50
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                               6                    43.14
  FY06                                            11                      59.61
  FY07                                            13                      47.34
  FY08                                               9                    41.90
  FY09                                            16                      57.07
  FY10                                            16                      77.77
  FY11                                               8                    56.46

                            Total:                79                     383.29




                                             34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
In May 2011, i.e., five months after completion of the project, the PCU conducted a rapid
survey among all of the 52 associations that had actually carried out a project. (54 had
been funded, but two returned the funds without implementation). The survey consisted
of two sets of eight questions, one set for production projects and one for
services/infrastructure projects:


      Production Projects                    N = 33            Services or Infrastructure                N = 19
                                                                        Projects

      Is the association still active?                           Is there an association or                  -(a)
                                                                 government agency
                                           Active: 14
                                                                 effectively responsible for
                                           Inactive: 19          maintenance of works or
                                                                 services?

      The number of participating          Increased: 8          Do you perceive a significant         Yes: 11
      families has increased or                                  effect for the community in
                                           Same: 20                                                    No: 8
      decreased since startup? (give                             terms of security, health,
      initial and final number)            Decreased: 5          environment, leisure,
                                                                 production or income?
      The products are still being         Yes: 14               Is the community organization         Yes: 12
      produced? Are they being                                   strong?
                                           No: 19                                                      No: 7
      sold?
      The undertaking has the              Yes: 14               Are resources available for           Yes: 7
      necessary capital to continue?                             maintenance of works or
                                           No: 19                                                      No: 12
                                                                 services?
      Constructions and equipment          Yes: 14               Are constructions and                 Yes: 12
      for production and sales are                               equipment still functioning
                                           No: 19                                                      No: 7
      still functioning?                                         and generating benefits?
      Were the objectives reached?         Yes: 15               Were the objectives reached?          Yes: 12
                                           No: 18                                                      No: 7
      The expectations for                 Good: 14              The expectations for                  Good: 12
      continuation of the                                        conservation of works or
                                           Medium: 5                                                   Medium: 1
      undertaking are good, medium                               continuation of services are
      or bad?                              Bad: 14               good, medium or bad?                  Bad: 6

      Which were the principal               (see main           Which were the principal                (see main
      lessons that you learned in the           text)            lessons that you learned in the            text)
      project and that you would                                 project and that you would
      like to share?                                             like to share?
(a)
   This question was apparently not well understood by the respondents, as all but one responded with “no”, although
that is clearly not the case for the more successful projects.




                                                          35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                     36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                    37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
(none)




                                      38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
1. Project Appraisal Document (PAD), 2004, Report No.25768-BR
2. Loan Agreement 7265-BR and Guarantee Agreement
3. Amapá Produtivo: Vocação para o desenvolvimento, Amapá State Government 2005
   (Productive Amapá: vocation for development)
4. Relatorio para Revisão de Meio-Termo, 2008 ( Mid-term Review Report),
5. Borrower report: Apreciação geral da execução do projeto, 2011 (General project
   implementation overview)
6. Borrower report: Database subprojects, 2011
7. Borrower report: Levantamento projetos Produtivos, 2011 (survey of productive subprojects)
8. Borrower report: Levantamento projetos sociais, 2011(survey of social subprojects)
9. Borrower report: Lista Investimento PCD final, 2011(final list of subprojects)
10. Borrower report: Pesquisa beneficiarios, 2011 (Beneficiaries’’ survey)
11. Borrower report: Situação dos projetos 1o. Edital, 2011 (status of projects 1st Call for
    Proposal)
12. Borrower report: Situação dos projetos 2o. e 3o. Edital, 2011 (status of projects 2nd & 3rd Call
    for Proposals)
13. Implementation Status Reports (ISR)
14. Supervision Aide Memoires
15. Fiduciary Supervision Reports (Financial Management and procurement)
16. Audit Reports and correspondence
17. Other preparation and supervision documents




                                                 39
                                      70°                R.B. de                   60°                                                           50°                                                            40°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BRAZIL




                                                                                             GUYANA
                                                       VENEZUELA                                                          FRENCH
                                                                                                         SURINAME         GUIANA
                       COLOMBIA
                                                                      Boa
                                                                                                                            (Fr)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMAPÁ
                                                                      Vista
                                                                      RORAIMA
                                                                                                                               AMAPÁ                                              ATLANTIC                            OCEAN                                           SUSTAINABLE
                0°                                                                                                              Macapá
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMMUNITIES
                                                                                                                                                             Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT




                                                                          Ne
                                                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                                                zona




                                                                              gr
                                                                                   Manaus                                 Ama                                                             São Luís




                                                                              o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fortaleza                                                 PROJECT AREA
                                                                                                                      P    A         R       Á
                                                    A M A Z O N A S
                                                                                                                                                                        MARANHÃO                    Teresina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                CEARÁ          RIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GRANDE         Natal                                   RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DO NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PARAÍBA




                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             João




                                                                                                                                                                 ntin
                                                                                                                                                                                           P I A U I                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pessoa




                                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                            To c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PE RN A M              Recife
                                 A C R E                          Porto                                                                                                                                                           BU C O                                            STATE BOUNDARIES
                                             Rio                  Velho
                                           Branco                                                                                                                                                                                          Maceió
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sobradinho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                                                   TOCANTINS                                             Reservoir
                                                               RONDÔNIA                                                                                                                                                            Aracaju            10°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SERGIPE
                                                                                                             M AT O                                                                       B A H I A
                       P E R U




                                                                                                                                                                                          cisco
                                                                                                            GROSSO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Salvador




                                                                                                                                                                                      Fran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                           F.D.                                                                                              such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                                              BRASÍLIA




                                                                                                                                                                                 Sã
                                                                                                      Cuiabá
                                                                                                                                            GOIAS
                                                                                                                                           Goiânia
                                                                                                                                                                              M I N A S                                                                                         R.B. de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PANAMA            VENEZUELA       GUYANA
                                                           BOLIVIA                                                                                                            G E R A I S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FRENCH GUIANA (Fr)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   COLOMBIA

                                                                                                            MATO GROSSO                                                                 Belo
                                                                                                               DO SUL                                  Gra nde                        Horizonte ESPÍRITO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ECUADOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                          SANTO
                                                                                                                      Campo                                                                                   Vitória
                                                                                                                                na




                20°                                                                                                   Grande
                                                                                                                               ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B R A Z I L
                                                                                                                            Pa




                                                                                                                                             SÃO PAULO                                                                                                             PERU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20°
                                                                                                                                                                                   RIO DE JANEIRO                   ATLANTIC
                                                                                    PARAGUAY                                                                                              Rio de Janeiro
                                              CHILE                                                                                                                     São Paulo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOLIVIA

                                                                                                                               PARANÁ
                                                                                                                                                       Curitaba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OCEAN                                 PACIFIC
                       PACIFIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARAGUAY
                                                                                                      ay




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OCEAN
                                                                                                   agu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHILE
                                                                                                  Par




                       OCEAN                                                                                                    STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                                         Florianópolis                                                                                                            ARGENTINA                      AT L A N T I C
                                                                                                                y
                                                                                                             ua




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 URUGUAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OCEAN
                                                                                                            ug




                                                            ARGENTINA                                                                                                     0            250              500         750       1000 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                           Ur
                                                                                         Parana




                                                                                                                    RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                       DO SUL               Porto Alegre                  0                 200               400           600 MILES
NOVEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33713
                30°

                 80°                                70°                                   60°              URUGUAY                           50°                                                  40°                                           30°   30°
