Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17934-GUI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION (US$22.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FORA
VILLAGE COMMUNITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM (Phase I)
January 25, 1999
Rural Development 3
Country Department 16
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1998)
Currency Unit = Guinean Franc
US$1 = GF1,200
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADC                     Agent de Developpement Commnunautaire
ADF                     African Development Foundation
AFD                     Agence FranQaise de Developpement
AGETIP                  Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public
AIP                     Annual Investment Plan
APL                     Adaptable Program Lending
CDC                     Conseil de Developpement Communautaire
CG                      Consultative Group
CIDA                    Canadian International Development Agency
CRD                     Communaute Rurale de Developpement
CVEP                    Comites Villageois d'Entretien des Pistes
DNAT                    Direction Nationale de l'Administration Territoriale
DNGR                    Direction Nationale du Genie Rural
GOG                     Government of Guinea
IF                     Inovation Fund
iDA                     International Development Association
WFAD                    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF                     International Monetary Fund
IPICI                   Pilot Initiative on Productive Conmunity Investments
LEF                     Local Investment Fund
LPDRD                   Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural Decentralise
LDP                     Local Development Plan
M&E                     Monitoring and Evaluation
MAEF/DNGR               Direction Nationale du Genie Rural du Ministere de l'Agriculture, des Eaux et
Forets
MID                     Ministere de l'Interieur et de la Decentralisation
MPC                     Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
NGO                     Non-Governmental Organization
PADSE                   Programme d'Appui au Developpement Socio-Econoniique
PCU                     Project Coordination Unit
PIM                     Project Implementation Manual
PSC                     Project Steering Commnittee
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program
VEF                     Village Investment Fund
VCSP                    Village Communities Support Program
Vice President:        Mr. Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director:      Mamiadou Dia
Sector Managers:       Jean-Paul Chausse and Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader:      Bachir Souhlal



GUINEA
VILLAGE COMMUNITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
L      PROGRAM AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ....................................................... . 2
A. Purpose and Phasing                                 ..2
B. Project Development Objectives and Key Perfonnance Indicators           .       .4
II. STRATEGIC CONTEXT . . 7
A. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Pro ject  .7
B. Main Sector Issues and Govemment Stategv ..7
C. Sector Issues To Be Addressed by the Project and Strategic C hoices      .9
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                       ..9
A. Project            Components9 
B. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project .12
C. Benefits and Target Population                                                          13
IV.  INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS    ...14
A. Project Management and Coordination          ..14
B. Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements   ..16
C. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting         ..16
V.     PROJECT RATIONALE ...............................................................           17
A. ProJect Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rection.  j                             1 7
B. Ma,jor Related Projects Financed by the Baxnk and/or Other Development Agencies .19
C. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Dsign .19
D. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .20
E. Value Added of Bank and Other Cofinancers Spport .20
ViL    SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ...............................................................    21
A. Economic ................ 21
B. Financial and Fiscal ................. 21
C. Technic.                                                     .     ....     2 2
D. Institutionall.22
E. Social.e.2 3
F. Environnental Assessment ..........    24
G. Participatory Approachi ........................... 24
VII.   SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .........................2........... 25
A. Sustainability ........................  .                                              25
B. Critical Risks ...27....................... 27
C. Potential Controversial Aspects .........................................................  28
VIII.   MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ........................................................... 28
A. Conditions for Board Prcsentation .......................................................  28
B. Conditions for Effectivencss .......................... 28
C. Assurances Obtained at Negotiatios .29
D. Readiness for Impleentation .29
E. Compliance with Bank Policies.                                                          29



Annexes
Annex 1      Decentralized Rural Letter of Development Policy
Annex IA     Project Design Summary
Annex 2      Detailed Project Description
Annex 2A     Organizational Chart: VCSP Management
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs Summary
Annex 3A     Estimated Project Costs by Components
Annex 4      Economic Analysis
Annex 4A1    Anticipated Socio-Economic Effects of the Project by Component
Annex 4A2   Evolution of Micro-project Financing
Annex 5      Financial Summary
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Annex 6B     Thresholds for Procurement Methods, and Prior Review
Annex 6C     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 6D     Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
Annex 7      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8      Financial Management
Annex 9      Documents in Project File
Annex 10     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11     Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD No. 29659



GUINEA
Village Communities Support Program
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Country Department 16
Date: January 25, 1999                                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Bachir Souhlal
Country Director: Mamadou Dia                                       Sector Manager/Director: J.P. Chausse M. Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: GN-PE-50732         Sector: Multi                       Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LENDING                       Program of Targeted Intervention:     I [XI   I Yes   I[ ] INo
Program Financing Data (USSM)                     Sources of Financing
APLs
Total Cost         G(overnment             Others             IDA
First Phase:      1999 - 2003                     38.70                4.00                  12.70              22.00
Second Phase:    2004 - 2007                      70.00                9.00                  26.00              35.00
Third Phase:     2008 - 2011                      88.00                11.00                 35.00              42.00
Program Total Cost                          196.70              24.00                  73.70              99.00
Project (First Phase) Financing Data                    Loan  I [I       Credit                             H X1  Guarantee   I   Other Ispecifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (USSm/SDRm): US$22 .00/SDRI 5.7 m
Proposed Terms:                 T1                       iMulticurrejici  [v   ]    Single currency
Grace period (years):             10                       Standard Variable   [XI   Fixed                [II    I lABOR-based
Years to maturity:                40
Commitment fee:                   0.75 °o
Service charge:                   0.75 °a
Financing plan (USSm):
Source                                                                     Local                    Foreign               Total
Government                                                                 4.00                        -                   4.00
Cofinanciers                                                               7.00                       5.70                12.70
IBRD/IDA                                                                   8.80                      13.20                22.00
Total                            19.80                     18.9(                38.70
Borrower: Govemment of Guinea
Guarantor: N.A.
Responsible agency: Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                1999         2000           2001          2002       2003
Annual                                                  2.00        5.00            5.00         7.00       3.00
Cumulative                                              2.00        7.00           12.00         19.I)t)    22.00
For Guarantees: N.A                                           l[    Partial Credit  |          Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:   N.A.
Principal amount (USS)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?: N.A.                   []      IYes                            No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: August 31, 1999                                   Closing date: June 30, 2004



2
I.    PROGRAM AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
A.   Program Purpose and Phasing
1.    The Village Communities Support Program  (VCSP) seeks to strengthen local
governance in rural Guinea and promote social and economic empowerment of the rural
population, including women, youth and other marginalized groups. The long-term vision of
the program is that, upon completion of the final phase, local communities and their
representative local governments will have developed: (i) the capability to identify, prioritize,
plan, and manage their own infrastructure and service needs; (ii) the capacity to mobilize and
use transparently the resources necessary to finance the establishment, rehabilitation, and
maintenance of basic community infrastructure; (iii) the ability to oversee the
implementation, operation and continued maintenance of community infrastructure either by
contracting private firms or through the support of deconcentrated government services; and,
(iv) the capacity to sustain the development efforts and to enhance good governance
practices.
2.    To support the long-term goals of this program, it will be necessary to use a lending
instrument that has a comparable time horizon. IDA financing of the program using the new
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument will provide a credible long-term commitment
while allowing flexibility to adjust financing according to the size and scope of each phase.
This approach will make it possible to review program implementation in line with the
lessons learned during each phase, the changing country context, and also according to the
demand and capacity of rural communities.
3.   It is proposed to implement the VCSP in three 4-year phases using the APL
instrument of the World Bank. The first phase of the program will initiate a process that will
establish mechanisms for decentralized decision-making and resource allocation and for
strengthening local communities' capacity to manage their own affairs. It will then move to a
full implementation phase that covers the whole country before consolidating the reforms in
the final phase. At the end of the program, the process of local development should be
sufficiently institutionalized to be self-sustaining when the VCSP phases out.



3
The Three Phases of the Program
Phase I - Scale-up Initial Pilots and Initiate Reforms (4 years)
Phase I begins a learning process for implementing decentralized rural development by supporting local
infrastructure investments and institutional refomis. It covers four components:
(i) a demand-driven Local Investment Fund (LIF) channels resources directly to rural conmmunities in 7()
Communautes Rurales de Ddveloppement (CRDs) for financing basic infrastructure. The LIF will use a
matching-grant mechanism and is designed to evolve into the government's main instrument for transferring
financial resources to rural communities for their developiiient needs;
(ii) support to the decentralization processes with a particular focus on fiscal decentralization., institutional
reforms, and building the capacity of CRDs to enable local institutions to manage their own development.
Thirty percent of the total number of CRDs, including those receiving VIF funding, will receive targeted
assistance to strengthen their planning and managerial capacity.
(iii) a priority program for the rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads. and
(iv) program management, monitoring and evaluation.
Phase II - Expansion of Program and Graduation of CRDs (4 years)
Phase II expands the program with the aim of reaching all the remaining 203 CRDs in the country. For those
CRDs that successfully participated in Phase 1. the program will increase the range of eligible micro-projects
to include other types of collective infrastructure and services (e.g. productive investments and natural
resource management micro-projects). The updated regulatory and lcgal framework on decentralization will
be implemented. This effort will include a country-wide fiscal decentralization policy which will be
gradually implemented, enlarging the resource base of CRDs' and introducing a system of intra-
governmental fiscal transfers. The rural roads component will be absorbed into a free-standing National
Rural Infrastructure Program.
Phase III - Consolidation and Institutionalization of Reforms (4 years)
Phase III further consolidates the fiscal, administrative and political decentralization reforms to make the
process of local development sustainablc. It will also continue to strcngthen local capacity to undertake a
wide range of collective micro-projects. expand the role of the private sector, and further integrate civil
society into the national development process.



4
B.    Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
(See Annex IA)
4.    This project represents Phase I of the Village Communities Support Program. The
project's development objectives are to: (i) establish an operationally effective and efficient,
decentralized system for local development; and (ii) increase access of the rural population to
basic infrastructure and services. To enable the fine-tuning of capacity building strategies at
both the national and local levels, Phase I will be restricted to 100 CRDs. The menu of
options eligible for financing will also be limited to basic social infrastructure.
5.    This project has three specific objectives: (i) to establish an effective and efficient
mechanism for transferring public funds to local communities for the financing of prioritized
rural community infrastructure; (ii) to improve the regulatory, institutional, and fiscal
environment and develop local capacity for decentralized rural development; and (iii) to
rehabilitate and to promote regular maintenance of infrastructure and rural roads.
Triggers have been agreed utpon with government for the transition from the first to the
secondphase of the program. They have also been tentatively identifiedfor the transition to
the third phase. These triggers will need to be attained prior to the approval andfiunding of
the subsequent phase



Key Performance Indicators and Triggers
Phases         Key Performance Indicators                                                    Key Triggers for transition to the next Phase
Phase I        A. Local Investment Fund                                                    A. Local Investment Fund
Initiation         O  CRDs successfully raise the 20% local community contribution for micro-  0   VIF's disbursements are at least at 65 percent of the planned level
projects                                                                0   60 percent of approved micro-projects have been successfully
0  A maintenance fund, equivalent to I% of the value of the micro-projects, is  completed
established                                                             0   The manual of operations has been revised on the basis of an evaluation
0  Approved micro-projects are successfully completed                           and a social assessment carried out by end of project year 3
B. Support to the Local Development Process                               B. Support to the Decentralization Process
0   A legal and regulatory framework has been established to foster        0   Key policies on decentralization and fiscal transfers are adopted by the
administrative and fiscal decentralization, and promote good govemance at  National Assembly and are being implemented;
the local level                                                        0   Local elections have been held in a fair and free manner
0   Improved support by central and deconcentrated services for local      0   MID has been reorganized
development is provided                                                0   Adequate mechanisms has been established to settle contlicts ot          en
0   Training to strengthen local capacity is provided                           authority between local and central authorities
0   Participating CRDs have prepared diagnostic studies and Annual          0   70% of participating CRDs have received the planned training
Investment Plans in a participatory manner
C. Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Rural Roads                          C. Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Rural Roads
0  A maintenance strategy for rural roads is adopted and implemented        0   75% of rural roads treated are regularly maintained
0  Rehabilitation and maintenance is programmed and executed based on
transparent criteria
0  Village maintenance committees (CVEP) have become operational
Phase II        A. Local Investnment Fund                                                   A. Local Investment Fund
Expansion          0  Approved micro-projects are successfully completed                       0   VIF's disbursements are at least at 70% of the planned level
0  Infrastructures built under the VCSP are maintained                      0   70% of approved micro-projects have been successtully compieted and
0  Financial contribution of CRDs and communities has increased to over 20%     are being maintained;
of investment costs                                                     0   the manual of operations has been revised on the basis ot an evaluation
and beneficiary assessments carried out by end of project year PY6



Key Performance Indicators and Triggers
Phases        Key Performance Indicators                                                      Key Triggers for transition to the next Phase
B. Support to the Decentralization Process                                      B. Support to the Decentralization Process
0 Capacity of CRDs to promote equitable local development has increased       0 60% of the CRDs have increased their budget by at least 30%
0 CRDs' capacity to mobilize resources (locally & through transfers, from     0 Fiscal transfers (excluding those under the LIF) and locally raised
central government) has improved                                              contributions contribute to at least 30% of CRDs' budget
0 Capacity of deconcentrated central govemment entities to support and        0 80% of participating CRDs have received the planned training
strengthen the decentralization process has improved
0 MID's capacity to-monitor CRDs' budgets, control the legality of
operations, and pursue consolidation of decentralization has increased
Achievement Indicators                                                       Achievement Trizgers
Phase III        A. Local Investment Fund                                                        A. Local Inivestnment Fund
Consolidation         0 Approved micro-projects are successfully completed                          0 VIF's disbursements are at least at 80% ol'the planned level
0 Infrastructures built under the VCSP are maintained                         0 Cost of providing small infrastructure is reduced by at least 30
0 Financial contributions of CRDs and communities have increased                percent
to over 40% of investment costs
B. Support to the Decentralization Process                                      B. Support to the Decentralizationx Process
0 Capacity of CRDs to promote equitable local development has increased       0 75% ofthe CRDs have increased their budget by at least 50%
0 CRDs' capacity to mobilize resources (locally & through transfers from      0 Fiscal transfers and locally raised revenues contribute to 50% of
central govemnment) has improved                                              CRDs' budget
0 Capacity of deconcentrated central govemment entities to support and        0 90°%o of participating CRDs have received the planned training
strengthen the decentralization process has improved                        0 Citizens' satisfaction about their local govememnt of at least 50%
O MID's capacity to monitor CRDs' budgets, control the legality of
operations, and pursue consolidation of decentralization has increased



7
II.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT
A. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project
(See Annex IA)
Please refer to CAS document number 17183 GUI. Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/21/1997
6.    According to the 1996 Guinea Poverty Assessment Study, poverty remains an
overwhelmingly rural phenomenon; over 52 percent of the rural population and 25 percent of the
urban population live below the poverty line. A countrywide consultative process, undertaken as
part of the Country Assistance Strategy preparation, revealed that the priority needs of the
population are improved rural roads and improved access to drinking water, health and education.
The population also expressed a strong willingness to take on increased responsibility for local
development, so community empowerment and decentralization should be a priority concern of
development strategies.
7.    The CAS focuses on three strategic priorities to achieve its goal of poverty reduction:
(i) promoting broad-based sustainable growth with a focus on the rural sector; (ii) improving social
service delivery; and (iii) enhancing governance and institutional capacity, with a strong emphasis
on empowering communities and local govemment to play an increasing role in identifying,
designing, and implementing community-level development projects.
8.    The Village Communities Support Program is based on the findings of the Poverty
Assessment Study and the lessons learned from the participatory processes which underlined the
preparation of the recent CAS. It will be one of the main vehicles to achieve the CAS objectives.
The program reflects the strategic priorities of government and those of the key stakeholders in
community-based decentralized rural development. The VCSP endeavors to reduce poverty and
improve living conditions of the rural poor by promoting a decentralized and cross-sectoral
approach to rural development. By transferring responsibilities and resources to local government
and strengthening the planning and managerial capacity of rural communities, the program will
promote an increased relevance of local investment decisions, and better control on investment
costs and maintenance.  It will also encourage collaboration between the various actors in
development (for example, civil society, government line ministries, and the private sector) and will
also contribute to economic development, political stability, good governance, and democratization.
B. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
9.    From independence in 1958 through 1984, the state had a high degree of control over the
economy. This top-down, centralised and bureaucratic command and central approach resulted in
economic stagnation, deterioration of basic infrastructure, and reduced availability and quality of
social services, especially in rural areas. Major political changes in 1984 paved the way for a series



8
of important institutional and policy reforms. Economic reforms were initiated that sought to
stabilize the macro-economic environment, disengage the state from production and commercial
activities, liberalize markets and prices, and foster private sector growth. Institutional reforms
focused on the adoption of a legal framework for decentralization and the updating of the legislation
pertaining to Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), cooperatives, and other forms of grass-
roots organizations. The decentralization laws established 33 urban communes and 303 CRDs. In
parallel to these reforns, the government refocused public expenditures on basic social and
economic infrastructure.
10.   Largely due to these reforms, economic growth resumed at more than 4 percent per annum
during 1986-90, and increased to 4.6 percent per annum since 1991. This has resulted in per capita
incomes growing at annual rates of between 1.2 and 1.8 percent. Stabilization and adjustment
policies supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank have helped
reduce annual inflation from 37 percent in 1987 to less than 2 percent in 1997. The budget deficit
has also been reduced from 10 percent of GDP in 1986 to 7 percent in 1996, and the balance of
payments deficit dropped from 13 percent of GDP to less than 9 percent during the same period.
11.   Despite these successes, a number of factors continue to constrain the Government's efforts
to reduce rural poverty and address the population's needs. These include:
(a)  insufficient participation by civil society (rural communities, vulnerable groups,
grassroots organizations, and private sector institutions) in identifying, designing, and
managing development programs;
(b)  inadequate and inefficient provision of essential public services and infrastructure to
rural populations due to fragmented sectoral policies and programs; excessive
concentration of decision-making, capacity, and resources; and limited capacity in
both public and private institutions involved in rural development; and,
(c)  limited availability of financial resources for rural development.
12.   To address these constraints, the Government, with support from IFAD and IDA, has spelt
its long-term rural development strategy. This strategy, presented in a Letter of Decentralized Rural
Development Policy (Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural Decentralise (LPDRD) will be
supported by the VCSP. The key features of this strategy are:
(a)  implementing the decentralization policy more effectively by strengthening elected
local government- for example, improving election procedures, revising the legal
and  regulatory  framework, simplifying  decentralized  fiscal and  budgetary
management, and building the capacity of decentralized institutions and
deconcentrated public service providers;



9
(b)   promoting effective partnerships for localized rural development between various
actors (for instance, deconcentrated public services, local government, community
and professional organizations, non-governmental land private institutions) to
establish, rehabilitate, maintain, and operate basic social and economic infrastructure;
and
(c)  establishing a funding mechanism  that transfers additional resources to rural
communities and helps them meet priority needs in basic infrastructure and essential
social services.
C. Sector Issues To Be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
13.   The VCSP will directly address the main sector issues mentioned above by: (i) improving
access of the rural population to social and productive services; (ii) strengthening the technical and
financial capacity of local governments, deconcentrated units, and private sector service companies;
(iii) strengthening the sustainability and effectiveness of institutional and financial mechanisms for
the operating and maintaining rural infrastructure; and (iv) promoting transparent and accountable
governance.
14.   The VCSP's strategy calls for rural populations and elected local governments to participate in
prioritizing development interventions. Experience demonstrates that this is vital for ensuring that the
activities financed are genuinely demanded by the beneficiaries. It also improves the social efficiency
of development expenditures and creates the conditions for their sustainability. Furthermore,
empirical evidence from other Bank projects demonstrates that decentralizing decision-making
authority and fiscal resources reduces the unit cost of providing services. There is also evidence that
promoting basic rural infrastructure may act as a catalyst for developing the national construction
industry, provided that efficient contracting and payment mechanisms are established.
IH. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
A. Project Components
15.   The project will include four components: (i) a local investment fund to finance village
infrastructure; (ii) support for local development; (iii) rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads;
and (iv) program management, monitoring and evaluation.
0    The Local Investment Fund (LIF) will be the mechanism for transferring funds to
local communities to finance priority community infrastructure micro-projects. The



10
O   LIF will comprise two funding windows: a Village Investment Fund (VIF: Fonds
d'Investissement Villageois) and an Innovation Fund (IEF: Fonds d'Appui a
l'Innovation). The VIF will help finance a predetermined menu of basic social
infrastructure, such as education, health, drinking water and sanitation facilities, and
village access roads.
O   The objective of the Support for Local Development component is to rationalize and
operationalize the regulatory and institutional environment for local development. The
component will include five sets of activities. The first will streamline the legal and
regulatory framework for decentralization. The second will establish effective fiscal
and financial decentralization. The third will target the CRDs' capacity to manage
local development programs. The fourth will focus on strengthening the capacity of
the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization (MID) agencies and services, which are
responsible for decentralization. The fifth will focus on sensitizing and training elected
local officials and CRD administrative and technical staff in the areas of local
development government, planning and financial management.
0   The Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads component seeks to (i) improve
the access of isolated rural communities to the national roads network; and (ii) establish
a sustainable rural roads management and maintenance system. Activities will include:
(i) formulating and establishing a rural roads maintenance strategy, including
establishing and supporting Village Maintenance Committees (CVEP - Comites
Villageois d'Entretien des Pistes) to manage intra-village tracks and dirt roads; (ii)
ensuring the efficient rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and critical spot improvement
of priority rural roads; and (iii) providing institutional support to the Direction Nationale
du Genie Rural du Ministere de l'Agriculture, des Eaux et Forets (MAEF/DNGR), the
implementing agency for this component, which includes restructuring its Maintenance
and Community Support Division and establishing an Environmental Mitigation Unit.
O   The Program Management, Monitoring and Evaluation component will cover: (i)
project coordination, oversight, and financial management, which includes establishing
and operating the National and Regional Coordinating Units, and (ii) establishing and
operating the overall monitoring and evaluation system.



I1
(See Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed breakdown of costs)
Component                               Category            Cost Including   % of   % to be
Contingency    total  financed
(US$M)               by IDA
(1) Local Investment Fund                                        9.96         26       32
(a) Village Investment Fund: Financing of  - Physical
basic infrastructure in about 70 CRDs  - Matching Grants
through a matching grant system detailed
in an operational manual.
(b) An Innovation Fund will investigate, on
a limited scale, other types of micro-
projects and improved procedures.
(2) Support to Local Development                                10.53         27       55
(a) Improvement and implementation of the   - Policy
legal framework for decentralization  - Institution building
(b) Studies and reforms in fiscal       - Capacity building
decentralization
(c) Capacity building for decentralization
(MID, deconcentrated public services.
and CRDs)
(d) Awareness-raising and Information
campaign
(3) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of                           11.06         28       70
Rural Roads
(a) Design and implementation of a strategy   - Policy
for rural road maintenance          - Physical
(b) Institutional Support for Genie Rural  - Institution building
(AIO4), and
(c) Rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and
spot improvements of the priority rural
road network
(4) Program Management, Monitoring and                           5.66          15      64
Evaluation
(a) Management of the project          - Project
(b) Monitoring and evaluation (M&E)      Management
(5) PPF Advance                        - Other                  1.49          4       100
Total                                                           38.70         100      56



12
B. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
16.   The proposed project supports the government's focus on reducing rural poverty and the
main goals of the National Development Strategy. It is firmly rooted within the country's
decentralization strategy, which provides the framework for initiating Phase I of the Village
Communities Support Program. However, in order to ensure that the VCSP brings about long-term
change and sustainable institutions, Phase I will begin to implement a number of strategic reformns.
On decentralization, the project will:
Strengthen7 and rationalize the niationcal legal an7d regulatoyfni7amework;
Although the basic legal framework is in place, a number of key legal texts are required in order to
make the system fully operational. These concern, in particular, the status and responsibilities of
local decentralized and deconcentrated entities. In addition, a number of decrees to implement the
legal framework will have to be issued.
Improve local govern7ance;
Representative and accountable local governments are essential to the success of the program. The
VCSP will seek to enhance the representability of the elected CRD councils by broadening their
membership to include representatives from a wide range of social, cultural, ethnic, and economic
groupings. This will be done to ensure that vulnerable groups are not disenfranchised. In addition,
the Government has informed IDA that local elections to CRD councils will be held prior to the
second phase.
Improvefiscal decenfralization;
One of the critical constraints to local development and autonomous local entities is the lack of
financial resources. The current arrangements for fiscal transfers and revenue generation are
rudimentary and inadequate for the emergence of effective local government budget management.
The project will seek to reform the system of inter-governmental transfers to broaden the local
fiscal base and improve local tax collection.
On rural development, the project will:
Support the implementation of a clear long-term vision and strategy for rural development through
the adoption by the Government of the Letter of Decentralized Rural Development. The policy
letter provides the long-term vision for decentralized rural development. It clearly articulates the
role of rural institutions and the roles and responsibilities of the various partners in rural
development, as well as the reforms necessary to achieve the stated long-term  institutional
development objectives. It also indicates the direction of change towards greater sustainability,
greater devolution of responsibilities, and increased transfer of resources to CRDs.



13
C. Benefits and Target Population
Primary Beneficiaries: the Rural Population
17.   A poverty assessment conducted in 1996 by IDA identified the rural population as having
the largest concentration of poor people in the country. The Project (Phase I) will have a positive
impact on the well-being, productivity and income of about thirty percent of the rural population
(1.4 million people).
Targeted Institutions
(a) Communautes Rurales de Developpement (CRDs): The project will target 100 CRDs,
70 of which will benefit directly by receiving funds to establish and rehabilitate basic
infrastructure through the VIF. All 100 targeted communities will benefit from the
project's broader capacity-building initiatives.
(b) Deconcentrated units of government: The project will target 33 Prefectures, 100 Sous-
Prefectures, and numerous deconcentrated technical service units to strengthen their
ability to better respond to CRD demands. The goal is to enable these units to become
a more legitimate and respected interface between national government agencies and
rural civil society.
(c) Government Ministries: The project will target capacity building initiatives to the
Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Agriculture (in particular, Direction Nationale du
Genie Rural), and the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization (in particular, Direction
Nationale de la Decentralisation and Direction Nationale de l'Administration du
Territoire).
Beniefits and Beneficiaries
18.   By improving village accessibility, providing safe drinking water, and assisting with
infrastructure for primary education and basic health care, the project will improve access to basic
services and have a positive effect on the well-being and productivity of the rural population. The
project's participatory processes and selection criteria will ensure that their views and priorities are
fully represented, and that they can take an active part in the planning, decision-making, and
managing their development efforts. This will be supported by having women, youth and other
traditionally disadvantaged groups represented on project committees at CRD, district and
community levels. These initiatives, combined with better provision of services and increased ease
of marketing agricultural surpluses, through improved accessibility, will have a direct impact on
poverty reduction.   Contracting  local artisans and small-scale  entrepreneurs for village
infrastructure construction and rehabilitation will generate local employment opportunities. The



14
project will increase CRDs' capacity to function effectively and responsibly and will improve the
ability of beneficiaries, including the most vulnerable groups, to address their aspirations and
priorities. In doing so, the project will increase ownership and participation in local governance,
and, thus, help ensure the sustainability of the initiatives financed under the project.  The
monitoring and evaluation system will emphasize assessing vulnerable groups' satisfaction with the
project's impact.
Gender Impact
19.   Women are expected to fully participate in the project. The rules for improving local
governance will foster wider participation by women at community meetings where investment
priorities will be decided. Thus, the identification and prioritization of investments to be financed
under VIF will be also based on women's expressed needs. As a whole, the project will have a
positive impact on women's income through easier access to markets, improved health care, and
education.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Management and Coordination (See Annex 2)
Iniplemenltaion Period
20.   The VCSP will be implemented over a 12-year period in three four-year phases; this project
represents the first phase of the program. The 12-year duration of this program parallels the
government's long-term commitment to decentralized rural development. In line with the flexible
approach taken under APL, the actual duration of each phase will depend on the progress made in
attaining the agreed targets and meeting the stipulated triggers. Subsequent credits will be extended
in conformity with agreed milestones and triggers (see Section I.B.). They will also be based on an
updating and review of each successive phase.
Key Implementationi Principles
21.   The project implementation arrangements will be based on the following key principles: (i)
local communities should define, choose, manage, and monitor infrastructure projects; (ii)
contractors, local artisans, and communities should build and maintain public works ; (iii) the
project should be simple and flexible and should gradually introduce a broader range of subproject
options; (iv) the project design should ensure transparency and accountability; and, (v) the
subprojects should be replicable.



15
Executing Agencies
22.   The organizational structure of the project is based on existing government institutions at
both the central and local levels. The Ministry of Planning and Cooperation (MPC), working
through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), is responsible for overall management and coordination.
The PCU will also be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the LIF component and for
harmonizing the monitoring and evaluation systems of the various project activities, supported by
four Regional Coordinators (RC). It is anticipated that this will reduce the potential for funding
approval and disbursement delays by bringing the LIF operations closer to the CRDs and
communities. The Ministry of Interior and Decentralization, which is the Ministry currently
responsible for decentralization. is responsible for implementing the support to local development
component. The rural works division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests will be
responsible for implementing the maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads component. In
addition, the project will maintain close links with the ministries responsible for basic education and
health to ensure that the facilities being constructed are consistent with the plans of those two
Ministries and that their facilities will be properly staffed with qualified teachers and health workers
upon completion.
23.   Project oversight and orientation will be the responsibility of a Project Steering Committee
(PSC) composed of representatives from the implementing agencies and key stakeholder groups.
The PSC will organize at least one annual meeting with the government and the donors participating
in the project's financing. The PSC will: (i) review and approve the proposed annual consolidated
work program and budget; (ii) review the progress toward achieving the project's objectives;
(iii) decide on necessary corrective actions relative to project implementation; and (iv) coordinate
the various projects in the area of decentralized rural development.
24.   The CRDs will be responsible for implementing community infrastructure subprojects that
qualify for LIF funding along the following principles: (i) identification, selection, operation,
oversight, and maintenance by and for the benefit of village communities; (ii) contractual
implementation of works by local artisans, private companies, or by the communities themselves;
and (iii) responsibility for technical supervision and monitoring of subproject implementation
shared by CRDs, territorial administration, and deconcentrated sectoral services.
25.   The project will encourage contracting technical advisory services to private entities rather
than creating additional government structures. NGOs and similar institutions that have experience
working with rural communities will be the primary contractors for facilitating community
participation. The detailed planning, design, and execution of subprojects will also be contracted
out. The CRDs will manage the process for identifying and contracting service providers. A large
part of the project's training programs will also be contracted out as will other activities, such as
impact and performance studies, surveys, and beneficiary assessments.



16
26.   Since early 1998, as part of the project preparation process, concepts and approaches have
been tested in five pilot CRDs through three NGOs and the African Development Foundation
(ADF), which have relevant field experience in participatory techniques and community
development. Based on the lessons learned during these pilots, the project approach will be
reviewed and the details of its implementation adjusted prior to Credit Effectiveness and
incorporated into the Project Implementation Manual.
B. Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements (See Annex 8)
27.   Project accounts:  The PCU will include a financial management specialist who will
establish the overall project management system and maintain project accounts. This will be done
by reviewing and consolidating accounts from each implementing agency, in accordance with
internationally accepted standards of accounting that are satisfactory to IDA. The accounts will be
computerized and an accounting package that is Y2K compliant will be selected and installed by an
accounting firm. The project accountants will be trained in IDA procedures with the support of the
World Bank Resident Mission in Conakry.
28.   Program accounts and the separate accounts for each component will be audited annually by
an internationally reputable auditing firm under terms and conditions approved by IDA The
auditing firm will provide a specific opinion to the implementing partners about the contracting
procedures, the accountability of each partner, and the management of resources by them. This
analysis should include a separate opinion about the use of special accounts and statements of
expenditures. Auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to IDA will be provided within six months
of the close of the fiscal year.
29.  In order to facilitate project implementation, three special accounts in the names of the three
implementing agencies will be opened in commercial banks under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA.
Co-Financing Arrangements
30.  IFAD, AFD and ADF will co-finance the project. IFAD and IDA will co-finance all project
components on a pari-passu basis while AFD and ADF will finance on a parallel basis as their
grant-financing will be geographically based. AFD will be involved mainly in the Guin6e
Forestiere region and ADF in the Guinee Maritime region.
C. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting (See Annex IA for indicators)
31.  The objective of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is to provide pertinent and
timely information to the key actors implementing the project and those responsible for project
orientation and oversight, especially the government and donors. Although complementary, the



17
M&E will be carried out as two distinct activities. A small unit will be established within the PCU
to coordinate and support all M&E activities. It will be directly responsible for monitoritng LIF-
related activities, which represent the core of the project and have the most demanding monitoring
requirements. In that respect, process monitoring will be an important element and will require
specific attention. The M&E unit will help the CRDs establish and operate their own internal
monitoring systems and will have a staff member attached to each of the four RCs for this purpose.
The M&E unit will also provide support to the other two implementing agencies, MID and DNGR,
which will be responsible for establishing and operating their specific monitoring systems. It will
also help establish the monitoring requirements to be attached to all major service contracts
committed under the project.
32.  Evaluation will be carried out mostly as an independent activity contracted out to qualified
organizations, including universities and NGOs. The M&E unit will prepare terms of reference,
contracts for studies, and surveys assessing the performance and impact of the project and its
implications for the design and adjustment of the rest of the program. Evaluations will address
both project processes and impact and will systematically include social assessments. In particular,
due attention will be given to assessing project impact on vulnerable groups. The M&E will
present the findings and recommendations to the PCU and the PSC. A joint Governmentldonors
mid-term review will be conducted by the end of the second year. During this review, the progress
toward the agreed benchmarks for the key performance indicators will be assessed and proposed
changes in the Project Implementation Manual will be reviewed and decided upon.
V.    PROJECT RATIONALE
A. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
33.  Four other approaches have been considered for the program:
0   A more traditional approach to integrated rural development could have been adopted,
which would have kept the responsibility for planning and implementation essentially
in the hands of central government. Experience has shown that externally generated
investment priorities do not necessarily reflect community priorities. Furthermore, the
approach fails to generate community ownership leading to inferior operation and
maintenance of investments. Lack of adequate and timely information, poor incentives,
and inadequate resources has often meant that coordination and top-down
implementation of multiple small-scale public infrastructure works has generally
proved to be too complex and fallen short of expectations.
0   The second option was to implement the program through a series of separate sub-
sector national projects. This option could achieve some efficiencies in execution but



18
lacks the potential synergies of an integrated community-based development. It would
be difficult to foster ownership by communities since they would not be prioritizing
subprojects. Furthermore, such an approach would neither encourage, nor support, the
emergence of efficient and accountable local government.
O   Implementation of projects similar to Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public
(AGETIP) could also have achieved speed and efficiency in executing large,
standardized types of infrastructure. This institutional arrangement, however, focusses
on creative employment and fostering emerging civil works enterprises. It relies on
small contractors who are able to operate and realize certain economies of scale and
requires logistical means incompatible with a large number of small-scale works
requests from scattered rural communities. In addition, AGETIP does not foster local
empowerment and capacity building and, therefore, limits community ownership and
the long-term sustainability of investments.
O   The project could have been implemented along the lines of a classic community-based
project, of which IDA has now accumulated a series of successful experiences.
However, these projects have suffered from two major problems. First, they have
proved difficult to scale-up. Second, they have not been sustainable, because
institutional changes (for example, fiscal decentralization and the evolution of
accountable local government structures) that improve the way government operates
have not been introduced. The VCSP builds upon small-scale initiatives, but offers a
more systemic means of bringing about sustainable change on a large scale.



19
B. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies
Sector or                 Project                 Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Issue                                                     Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Strategy      Country Assistance Strategy            Completed          HS
Rural         National Rural Infrastructure Project  Completed           S
Development   Second National Rural Infrastructure    Planned
Project
Agriculture    Ag Services Project                       S               S
Human         Socio-Economic Development Support     Completed           S
Resources     Project
Capacity      Capacity Building for Service Delivery  Planned
Building      Transport Sector Project
Transport                                             Planned
Other External Development Agencies
AFD           Feeder Roads and Bridges
Cooperation    Institutional Support for
Francaise     Decentralization, to be linked with VCSP
EU            National Feeder Roads Support to Urban
Communes
UNDP          Support to Local Initiatives Program
IFAD          IFAD Pilot Initiative for Productive
Community Investments
USAID         Democracy and Governance Program
KfW           Regional Feeder Roads
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
C. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
34.  Experience gained in Guinea (paragraph 37 of CAS) and elsewhere in Africa over the last
two decades shows that successful rural development projects should: (i) be designed, formulated,
and implemented by communities, based on their needs and resources; (ii) be relatively small and
based on local social structures; (iii) have strong political commitment from the center; (iv)
transfer resources and responsibilities to local governments; and (v) ensure local accountability and
ownership. The project design for Phase I already incorporates these lessons and as well as
experiences from the five CRD pilot projects implemented during the preparation phase.



20
35.  Sustainable operation and maintenance of rural roads requires the establishment of an
effective institutional and financial framework. Maintenance arrangements need to be structured
from the central through the regional to the local level, with responsibilities of the different levels
clearly defined. These arrangements need to be accompanied by unambiguous and credible
financing arrangements for the different levels. This project incorporates these lessons by clearly
defining institutional responsibilities, setting up maintenance committees at the CRD level, and
restructuring of Genie Rural to better respond to client needs.
D. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
36.  In the earlier CAS discussions and during negotiations for the Medium-Term Expenditure
Project, the government demonstrated its commitment to rural development, strengthening local
governance, and the creation of sustainable financing mechanisms for infrastructure maintenance.
This has been further reinforced by a recent initiative to develop the "Lettre de Politique et de
Developpement Rural Decentralise' into a broader policy document for the whole rural sector.
This Letter was presented at the last Consultative Group meeting (CG) in June 1998. The CG has
committed to support the Government's efforts, which increases the chances for a
government/donors strategic alliance in the fight against rural poverty in Guinea.
37.  During the formulation of the VCSP, the government has fully participated in the
identification mission and in the preparation of the concept paper. In June 1998, a validation
workshop was organized in Dalaba, during which the Government presented the VCSP to a broad
audience that included most donors, NGOs, CRDs' elected Presidents and other representatives of
the civil society.
E. Value Added of Bank and Other Cofinanciers Support
38.   IDA is in a strategic positioii to help the government coordinate donor efforts with respect
to strengthening the decentralization process, designing and financing the decentralized LIF, and
establishing sustainable financing mechanisms for maintenance. IDA is the only agency able to
help the government mobilize adequate funding to undertake such a national program. By working
through permanent local governments within a national policy framework rather than through ad
hoc entities created solely for the project, IDA is fostering the conditions for sustainable and
national level impact.
39.  IDA also brings significant international experience in the areas of decentralization, social
funds and demand-driven rural investment funds to this project. The lessons learned from the
recently completed National Rural Infrastructure Project (PNIR) and the Socio-Economic
Development Support Project (PADSE) have been invaluable in developing appropriate
maintenance mechanisms and designing relevant processes for the Village Investment Fund. In
addition, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) helped the government of Guinea
formulate its policy for sustainable human development with a focus on poverty reduction.
40.  A number of donor agencies and NGOs are collaborating in this project. IFAD, which has
considerable experience in implementing poverty alleviation and community-based rural
development projects in Guinea and across West Africa, has been assisting with the VCSP
preparation. ADF has also been closely involved in the identification mission and is implementing



21
one pilot project. It will continue to be involved during implementation and will contribute its
expertise in decentralized community-based development and participatory rural appraisal. Agence
Francaise de Developpement took part in the preparation and is clearly supporting the VCSP.
Cooperation Fran,aise and CIDA, two of the major donors supporting decentralization in the
region, have also manifested their interest in participating in the program.
VI. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
(Detailed assessments are in the project file)
A. Economic
41.  The proposed project is largely oriented toward capacity building, community-initiated rural
infrastructure subprojects, and rural roads. It does not lend itself to detailed ex-ante cost-benefit
analysis and rate of return calculations. Although the major types of community-based rural
infrastructure subprojects are known (essentially health and school facilities, drinking water, and
village access roads), the beneficiaries will determine the scope and mix of the investments. Since
the beneficiary communities will select the subprojects that respond to their highest priorities and
contribute to their financing, the subprojects are expected to be highly beneficial to community
members and have a positive net social and economic return. For the rural road component, only
high priority and spot maintenance activities have been selected. This will have a very large pay-
off by removing critical bottlenecks.
42.  Experience from similar Bank supported projects in other regions indicates that demand
driven projects of this type, involving beneficiary contributions, are highly cost-efficient.
Communities have a vested interest in achieving the best quality-price ratio and will seek to
maximize cost savings and ensure accountability. Furthermore, because communities are actively
involved in prioritization, implementation, operation and maintenance, it can be assumed that the
subprojects they select will be economically viable.
43.  The cost of program administration will be relatively low, because the project relies on
existing institutions, contractual arrangements, standardized designs, costing, and evaluation
procedures.
B. Financial and Fiscal
44.  The VCSP has an impact on both the size and structure of investments at the levels of
central, local governments and direct beneficiaries. Overall, efficiency of public expenditure will
be improved, which will help reduce the strains on the central budget and contribute to
sustainability at all levels.  In the short to medium-term, the VCSP will increase public
expenditures on rural infrastructure and the Government, within tight overall budgetary constraints,
will need to make up for these expenditures by decreasing spending on less priority public
investments. In the medium to long-term, it is expected that (i) the program will spur economic
activity in rural areas and, therefore, expand the tax base for both central and local governments;
and (ii) the willingness of the population to contribute a higher share of investment costs will
increase, reducing the burden on the government budget.



22
Fiscal Impact on the Government
45.  The VCSP is primarily concerned with providing public goods and services that justify the
use of public funds. The fiscal impact of the project on both central and local government budgets
will be measured in terms of net expenditures and revenues in the "with" and "without" project
scenarios. In absolute terms, there should not be a significant change in public finances during the
project's life. However, decentralization and local community participation in public investments
are expected to have a positive impact by increasing the efficiency of revenue collection and
expenditures.
46.  During the first phase, it is anticipated that CRDs' contribution to the financing of
subprojects will be limited to 20% of cost. At a later stage, following implementation of the fiscal
reform, CRDs will be expected to assume greater financial and management responsibility for the
use of local resources. Starting in the second phase of VCSP, implementation of the fiscal reform
will contribute to improved coherence between the volume of resources available to local
governments/CRDs and the responsibilities devolved to them under the decentralization process.
Overall, it is expected that in the long term, economic benefits of the VCSP will largely offset any
small initial negative impact on the central government's budget.
C. Technical
47.  Under  the  VCSP, responsibility  for subproject identification, preparation  and
implementation rests with communities and local governments. The issue of technical capacity and
the quality of subprojects is addressed along three axes.
(a)   The guiding premise of the VCSP is that there is considerable latent technical and
managerial capacity at the local level. The pilot activities, conducted during VCSP
preparation, have shown that this capacity is released by empowering communities
through a participatory process. In addition, because the planned investments are
mostly simple infrastructures, local artisans and entrepreneurs have sufficient
technical knowledge and experience to implement and manage them.
(b)   The VCSP will provide a certain amount of technical assistance by training
community leaders and local elected officials and by posting Community
Development Agents (ADCs: Agents de Developpement Communautaire) and
Animators at the CRD and District levels, respectively.
(c)   The VCSP will facilitate community access to technical assistance by earmarking 8
percent of the cost of each subproject for contracting external expertise from local
artisans, NGOs, universities, private sector service providers, and the public sector.
In addition, technical criteria and standards are being developed for each subproject
type based on existing norms. These norms are being incorporated into the Project
Implementation Manual.
D. Institutional
48.  Various assessments conducted by national and international consultants have drawn similar
conclusions regarding the state of rural development and decentralization in Guinea.  The



23
fundamental tenets of these analyses are that excessive centralization of decision-making
undermines the ability of communities and local govemments to manage their own affairs. Local
development is also seriously hampered by inadequate fiscal transfers, cumbersome procedures,
lack of credible financing, and severely constrained opportunities for resource mobilization by
local governments. Institutional capacity is weak at all levels-national, intermediate and local.
Inadequate sharing of information on policies, laws, and procedures further compounds the
problem. Finally, considerable confusion stems from unfinished public sector and decentralization
policy reforms. The broader institutional framework for decentralization is in place, but the process
appears to have stalled. There is a pressing need to define the direction in which Guinean
decentralization will evolve, to clarify the responsibilities, status and structure of the various levels
of government, and to enforce laws that have already been enacted.
49.  The VCSP will begin to address the deficiencies of the current situation in the following
way:
50.  Deficiencies in the Decentralization Process. Phase I will finance a number of activities
geared towards strengthening the decentralization process. This will include streamlining and
harmonizing the legal and regulatory framework, particularly as it relates to the district, CRD,
Sous-Prefecture and Prefecture. A national Decentralization Forum for policy development will
also be established.
51.  Lack of Resources at the Local Level. The project will review  the system  of
intergovernmental fiscal relations and the state of local budgets in order to formulate reforms to be
implemented during Phase II. The reforms will seek to broaden CRD's revenues by reviewing the
tax base and formulating a system of inter-governmental fiscal transfers. The system of transfers
will take into account inequities between regions and between CRDs.
52.  Lack of Institutional Capacity. The program  will increase the capacity of central
government to make policies, regulate, and monitor local development. Local governments and
community leaders will receive training to improve their ability to plan and manage local
development. In addition, a number of animators and community development agents will be
recruited to assist the process. The forthcoming capacity building project will also support
government at the prefecture level and complement VCSP capacity building activities.
53.  Lack of Accountability and Transparency. The program will implement a number of
activities and mechanisms to make local government more representative and accountable to their
constituencies. In particular, the government will enforce the legal provisions that broaden each
CRD council's membership to include representatives from community socio-economic groupings
in addition to elected officials. This council will be responsible for prioritizing subprojects. In
addition, during Phase I, the project will conduct a study to establish a mechanism to review any
matters involving abuse of power or conflicts between local and central authorities.
E. Social
54.  The social assessment undertaken during preparation and the pilot projects currently under
implementation in five CRDs have yielded a wealth of information on the potential social impact
of the VCSP and how to foster equitable and sustainable local development. The LIF will be



24
implemented in a demand driven manner that enables local communities to take greater control and
authority over their own affairs. The approach is highly innovative because it gives direct financial
control to communities for buying professional services and skills to help them plan and
implement a subproject they have chosen.
55.  One of the critical issues in bringing the entire community together to select, finance, and
implement subprojects is how to ensure an equitable and representative decision-making process.
Since most Guinean cultural groups are very stratified-organized around caste, age, kinship, and
gender divisions-the LIF will use participatory planning and animation techniques to ensure that
marginalized groups are not excluded from the decision-making process. Moreover, all committees
at the local level will be mandated to include representation from vulnerable groups. The
Government strongly supports this strategy.
F. Environmental Assessment
Fnvironmental Category:   [ I   A     [x]  B      [J   C
56.  The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category B and an
Environmental Management Plan that provides support for a series of practical actions to address
potential environmental issues has been prepared. The small-scale community infrastructures to be
constructed under the program will have limited negative environmental impacts. To mitigate
potentially adverse environmental impacts, agents de developpement communautaire (ADCs) will
be trained in environmental management through on-the-job training programs. They will help
CRDs screen subprojects for environmental impacts and integrate required mitigation measures
into subproject design. Regarding the rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance component, an
Environmental Mitigation Unit (EMU) will be established within DNGR to monitor environmental
effects of project activities, propose and implement appropriate mitigation plans. The EMU will
provide support to all subprojects constructed under the project.
G. Participatory Approach
Identification/Preparation    Implementation
Beneficiaries/community groups          COL                    COL
Intermnediary NGOs                      COL                    COL
Academic institutions                   CON                    COL
Local government                        COL                    COL
Central Government                      COL                    COL
Other donors                            COL                    COL
COL = Collaboration, CON = Consultation
Primary Beneficiaries anid Other Affected Grouips
57.  In preparing the CAS, the government initiated a bottom-up consultative process in its
formulation of the National Development Strategy. This involved over 3,000 consultations with
beneficiaries and other stakeholders from civil society, village communities and women's groups



25
(with a combined membership of over 1,000 women) in all four regions of the country. This spirit
of consultation has been carried into the design and preparation of this project, which has also
involved active participation by key stakeholders from rural communities and local government.
Local NGOs, supported by locally-based international NGOs and the African Development
Foundation, led the consultative process during project preparation. ADF and the international
NGOs participated directly in the identification of the project and are currently implementing five
pilot projects in each region of the country. These pilots are testing proposed project procedures.
Other Key Stakeholders
58.  The preparation of the project has been based on a collaborative process involving local
teams comprising consultants, government officials from all relevant ministries, and CRD
members and presidents who have been working with an international support team. This broad-
based team has used a series of surveys and workshops with communities, with ADF and the
NGOs responsible for the five pilots, and with the key stakeholders at the central level. The
surveys and workshops solicited views, ideas and opinions on the design and implementation of
the project. Resulting discussions, in particular during the validation workshop in Dalaba in June
1998, helped refine the project design and incorporate additional flexibility and scope for testing
different approaches. The workshop involved government agencies, respected individuals from
local civil society, NGOs, donors, and locally elected officials. This process has ensured that the
views of all key stakeholders were taken into consideration during the formulation, thereby
encouraging long-term commitment and partnership.
VII. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
A. Sustainability
59.   This project seeks to ensure sustainability by institutionalizing the process of community-
based development. To that end, the VCSP relies on the CRD as the local body for promoting
rural development. By strengthening CRD capacity, setting up systems for government transfers,
and creating a conducive institutional framework, the VCSP will ensure the sustainability of the
institutional structures and fiscal resources after this program comes to completion at the end of the
12-year APL time horizon. Sustainability is further enhanced because: (i) recurrent costs for
community program administration will be relatively low, as the project implementation relies on
existing institutions, competitive contractual arrangements and simplified and standardized
preparation, costing, and evaluation procedures for subprojects; and (ii) mechanisms to ensure
transparency and accountability have been incorporated in the project's implementation
procedures.
60.   Sustainability at the level of the subproject also depends on the degree to which the
beneficiaries have ownership of the subproject. This sense of ownership should result from the
program's participatory procedures and mechanisms that transfer decision-making and resources to
the local level.
61.  Empirical studies of collective action demonstrate that sustainable local institutions evolve
when individuals organize around issues of common interest. Moreover, they remain organized



26
only if tangible benefits continue to emanate from their collective action. This project's strong
focus on capacity-building will increase the ability of the key actors to organize and to plan,
manage and sustain their own development efforts.  The clarification of the roles and
responsibilities of each party involved in village development will enhance the sustainability of the
effort and will serve to improve the collaboration between decentralized service providers and the
broader civil society.



27
B. Critical Risks
(Reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1A):
Risk                   Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex JA, cell 'from Outputs to Objectives"
Insufficient govemment commitment to         M       a) Involve high-level representatives of
fiscal, administrative, legal and political             government and civil society in all
measures to ensure that decentralization will           aspects of project preparation and
be truly effective.                                     implementation.
b) Govemment has adopted a Policy
Letter for Local Development that
commits itself to decentralization.
The local banking system is unable to handle  M      Evaluate suitability of rural credit which
transfers of funds to CRDs under the LIF.            is well represented in rural areas and
banking system and other non-banking
financial support systems and investigate
innovative solutions: Only CRDs with
access to a sound banking/financial
system will be eligible to participate
during the first phase.
Annex JA, cell 'Yrom Components to Outputs"
Limited availability of budget and resources  S      Special supervision arrangements made
for supervision will be insufficient to assist       and adequate budget provided, including
the Project Coordination Unit in a timely and        possible funding through bilateral and
substantive fashion to respond to problems           other donors.
arising from such an innovative program
Slow decision making and lengthy processing  M       Delegate powers to CRDs, but with the
of subprojects at the central level                  regional project offices closely
monitoring and coordinating. Maintain
flexibility, but active supervision
schedule.
Interference and rent-seeking in the         M       Develop procedures and mechanisms
processing and financing of micro-projects          that encourage transparency and
under the LIF.                                       accountability. Ensure that all concerned
parties are informed of the rules and their
rights. A grievance process will also be
established.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



28
C. Potential Controversial Aspects
62.  The VCSP preparation process has been highly participatory and has involved a wide range
of stakeholders. As a result, the risk for unforeseen controversial aspects has been greatly reduced.
Nevertheless, two potentially controversial issues have been identified:
0  A history of state-subsidized infrastructure programs could mean that communities may
be unwilling to contribute towards the costs of a subproject. Furthermore, other donor-
financed programs may offer a higher level of subsidy than the VCSP, creating undue
competition for community participation. The requirement for financial participation
will self-select communities and ensure the commitment of those willing to participate
in the program. Above all, the VCSP has been conceived as a national umbrella
operation that provides a common framework and helps harmonize donors'
interventions in local development.
0   The VCSP expects prefectures to play a role in monitoring subprojects and ensuring
that eligibility criteria are applied. For this additional task, they will receive a fee
equivalent to 2% of the subproject cost from government. Although, having a project
provide remuneration for public services might be a contentious issue, similar
arrangements exist in other countries and have proven to strengthen quality control and
performance.
VIH. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
A. Conditions for Board Presentation
63.   The Government of Guinea has submitted a letter of decentralized rural development policy
(Lettre de politique de developpement rural decentralise LPDRD) satisfactory to IDA.
B. Conditions for Effectiveness
(a)  Nomination of key staff with qualifications satisfactory to IDA;
(b)  Appointment of independent auditors acceptable to IDA to audit the Village Support
Project (VCSP) accounts each fiscal year;
(c)  The Borrower has established an accounting and financial management system
satisfactory to IDA;
(d)  The Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA at all times;
(e)  The Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein an initial amount
of $300,000 in the project account;
(f)   The Borrower has established the PSC and the PCU with membership, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to IDA; and



29
(g) Cross-effectiveness with IFAD loan agreement.
C. Assurances Obtained at Negotiations
(a)  The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(b)  The Borrower will, by October 31st of each year, review with IDA the progress
achieved in the execution of the project;
(c)  VCSP annual work plans and budgets approved by the PSC will be provided to IDA and
other participating donors by December 31st of each year;
(d)  The Borrower will maintain a project account and sufficient counterpart funds will be
provided in a timely manner to cover recurrent costs as agreed in the annual work
program review with IDA;
(e)  Program accounts and all separate accounts for each component will be audited annually
by independent auditors under terns and conditions acceptable to IDA;
(f)   The review and approval of subprojects to be financed under the LWF will be done in
accordance with criteria and procedures set out in the Program Implementation Manual
(PIM) acceptable to IDA;
(g)  A mid-term review of the project will be carried out jointly by the Government, IDA,
and the other donors by December 31, 2001, or at a later date approved by IDA;
(h)  T'he Borrower will maintain TSC and PCU throughout the Project execution period with
membership and functions satisfactory to IDA and with staff whose qualifications and
experience are at all times satisfactory to IDA; and
(i)   The Borrower will carry out studies required to (i) ensure the sustainability of the LIF,
and (ii) strengthen the institutional and legal framework for decentralization.
D. Readiness for Implementation
(a)  The preparation of a program implementation plan, including the first year annual work
plan, has been prepared; and,
(b)  The procurement plan for the first year activities was completed prior to negotiations.
E. Compliance with Bank Policies
The project complies with all applicable Bank Po
Task Team Leader: Bachir Souhlal
4Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Paul Chausselpssaid
Sector Manager/Director: Maryvon(         said       /
Country Manager/Director: Mamadou Dia



30
ANNEX 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Work - Justice - Solidarity
COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Conakry, December 30, 1998



31
1.   CONTEXT
The advent of the Second Republic in Guinea on April 3, 1984 marked a radical change in
State/citizen relations and in the way the country's social and economic development was to be
pursued and managed. The all-powerful, omnipresent State was to give way to a "State at the
service of development", working in partnership with civil society, in a liberal economic
environment, with decentralized, contract-based planning. A series of reforms in economic
policy and in the institutional fabric would help this new vision of economic and social
development to materialize.  The reforms were accompanied by a re-targeting of public
investment toward rehabilitation of basic economic and social infrastructure and toward a
reduction of the huge gaps between urban and rural life, particularly in respect of access to basic
social services.
However, overall economic growth and that of the agricultural sector in particular has
remained too slight to have had a visible impact on poverty, which remains dire, especially in
rural areas. Furthermore, even though the re-targeting of public investment may have increased
the availability of basic social infrastructure at the local level, access to essential social services
continues to be severely restricted, notably in rural areas. The same applies to basic economic
infrastructure, particularly road systems in rural areas, which are still far from meeting local
needs, despite progress made in rehabilitating and maintaining them. In light of these findings,
the Government has decided to rethink its strategry for rLral development and to focus on poverty
reduction.
2.   ACHIEVEMENTS AND CONSTRAINTS
2.1   Achievements
(a)   Macroeconomic framework and overall economic context
The main results of the economic reforms undertaken since the mid 1980s have been:
* liberalization of the economy,
* introduction of a regulatory framework tailored to the needs of a market economy,
* restoration of key macroeconomic variables,
all of them prerequisites for sustainable economic growth. Annual inflation was reduced from
37% in 1987 to 2% in 1997. The budget deficit was scale& back from the equivalent of 9.8% of
GDP in 1986 to 7.2% in 1996. The current account deficit fell from 13.4% of GDP in 1998 to
8.9% in 1995. The reforms thus enabled economic growth to resume, with real GDP rising by an
average 4% per year beginning in 1986, and by 4.6% a year from 1991. This translated into
annual GDP per capita growth rates of 1.2% and 1.8%, respectively.



32
(b)  Institutional framework
Guinea's principal achievements in the area of decentralization have been:
* promulgation of laws and regulations governing the organization and operation of
local government;
* establishment of local government districts all over the country, in both urban areas
(38 urban municipalities plus the City of Conakry, with its own special legal status)
and rural areas (303 rural development communities, or CRDs);
.  increasing involvement of the CRDs in local development, with some of them
participating fully in the planning and  implemnentation of local social investment
projects and contributing to the mobilization of funds for local development
(decentralized  taxation,  voluntary  contributions  by  communities,  expatriate
associations, NGOs, projects).
The regulations governing associations have been updated to allow greater freedom of
association, and to relax and simplify the rules concerned with their establishment and
operations. Community-based associations of one kind or another (NGOs, cooperatives, and
others) have mushroomed as a result.
(c)   Education sector
Primary education: Implementation of the education sector adjustment program (PASE)
led to the construction of 1,500 classrooms between 1990 and 1994. An equal number of
classrooms were built thanks to voluntary community contributions and support channeled
through NGOs, projects, and expatriate associations. Classroom construction continued at a
similar pace between 1995 and 1997. A school furniture, textbook, and supplies program has
helped to gradually enhance the quality and conditions of work in the classroom. The overall
result was a major increase in the gross school attendance rate from 28% in 1989 to over 50% in
1997, while enrollment in the first year of primary school rose from 39% in 1991 to 49% in
1996. In addition, the content of primary school education has improved significantly, thanks
largely to the introduction of training modules in the following areas of (i) population education,
(ii) environmental education, and (iii) health and hygiene education.
Functional literacy: The adult functional literacy rate rose from 28% in 1984 to 33% in
1995 thanks to the establishment of: (i) demand-driven local community literacy centers, (ii)
vocational literacy training centers; and (iii) second-chance schools for school drop-outs as well
as young people who have not attended school before, in the age range 12-17 years. These are
facilities that target women and young people in particular.



33
A committee on gender equity, established in 1994, is responsible for sensitizing
communities, local authorities, and traditional and religious leaders, to the need to increase
school attendance by girls, in particular those belonging to the most disadvantaged social groups,
especially in rural areas. These activities led to a doubling of school attendance by girls between
1991 and 1996.
(d)   Health sector
At the national level, vaccination coverage rose from under 5% in 1988 to 62% in 1996.
The oral rehydration therapy usage rate rose from under 10% to over 60%, while government
health care coverage rose to 80% in 1997. These major steps forward were achieved largely as a
result of renovation of most of the country's hospitals and the construction of 349 health centers,
some of which were built (and directly financed or cofinanced) by community groups, with
technical assistance from local health districts. A nation-wide cost recovery scheme is now fully
operative and accepted by the general public: funds collected are deposited in bank accounts in
the names of the particular health care centers and managed by committees elected by the
beneficiary communities. Technical management is provided by the head of each center, who is
appointed by the Health Director for the prefecture in which that center is located.
Responsibility for certain local services, such as prenatal care and nutritional surveillance,
assisted births, and the distribution of essential preventive supplies and medications (iodized salt,
contraceptives, etc.), has been transferred to the communities.
(e)   Agriculture sector
Performance in the agriculture sector (farming, livestock, fisheries, forestry, etc) has
improved markedly in the past few years, with value added growing on average by 4% a year
since 1992. This is partly due to policy reforms geared primarily to gradual withdrawal by the
State from production and marketing activities, to the liberalization of both domestic and
external trade in agricultural products, and to the easing and simplification of both the tariff
structure and the procedures for importing and exporting agricultural products.  At the
institutional level, notable developments have included enactment of land tenure code and
adoption of a national environmental action plan.
Introduction of a national agricultural extension program has greatly strengthened support
for small farmers. In the area of rural infrastructure, strengthening of rural engineering and
water supply services has led to improved access to many previously isolated rural areas through
rehabilitation of almost 6,000 km of rural roads and building of numerous crossing structures,
and to creation of 7,000 rural wells in village communities. At the same time, arrangements
were set up providing for regular maintenance of these infrastructure facilities by their
beneficiary communities.
2.2   Constraints
Despite these achievements, various constraints continue to limit the impact of efforts by
the authorities and civil society to reduce poverty and improve the standard of living of rural
communities. Those constraints may be summarized as follows:



34
(a)  Insufficient participation by inhabitants of rural areas and by civil society in general in the
design, implementation, and management of local development programs in rural areas. This
often results in a quantitative and qualitative mismatch between services provided and
inhabitants' priority needs. It also leads to under-valuation of the comparative advantages of the
various stakeholders in the public, private, and community-organization sectors.
(b)   Ongoing shortcomings in the regulations governing decentralization, and in their
application. In particular:
*  lack of clarity regarding roles, functions, and spheres of competence, particularly
those of CRDs and local representations of central government, resulting primarily in
heavy-handed supervision by the latter;
*  lack of information on, and training in, applicable regulations among elected officials
and representatives of local state service agencies, resulting in abuse and a series of
disputes;
*  complex and cumbersome procedures affecting the taxation and budgetary aspects of
community development, resulting in low tax collection and delays in program
execution.
(c)   Support for local development still suffers from serious shortcomings, ascribable to the
persistence of:
*  poorly integrated sectoral policies and fragmented programs and projects, which make
it difficult to establish coherent, well-coordinated and complementary links among the
kinds of measures (especially in the education, health, infrastructure, and farming
sectors) that are essential to the well-being of rural communities;
*  poor distribution of decision-making capacity, technical and management skills, and
equipment;
*  failure to provide enough human resources to run the social infrastructure already in
place, especially in the areas of education and health.
(d)   The technical and management skills of associations and private sector institutions are
generally weak.
(e)   The financial resources earmarked for local development are still very limited at both the
community and stakeholder levels, with:
* very little funding from decentralized tax collection;
* community-based contributions limited by low income levels;



35
*  transfers from private individuals (expatriates) and support channeled through projects
and NGOs are not only modest but also poorly targeted, benefiting only certain areas,
villages, or social groups;
*  State funding that is merely minor and irregular, owing mainly to national budget
constraints.
3.   ISSUES
3.1   Poverty in Guinea is essentially a rural phenomenon
Analysis of the poverty profile generated from the findings of the Comprehensive
Household Budget/Consumption Survey (EIBC) of 1995 revealed that 40.3% of the total
population was living below the poverty line. For the rural population, the figure was 52.3%,
compared to 15.4% for the urban population. Regional disparities are also stark, with poverty
rates of 62% in Haute Guinee, 50.6% in Moyenne Guinee, 41.5% in Basse Guinee, 32.6% in
Guinee Forestiere, and 6.7% in the city of Conakry. Almost 87% of the poor live in rural areas,
68% being subsistence farmers. The social and economic development of Guinea presupposes a
substantial reduction in poverty, particularly in ruiral areas.
3.2   Human development indicators are extremely weak for rural areas, where access to
essential social services is very limited
The EIBC underscores the fact that in 1995 the average gross primary school attendance
rate in rural areas was 27% (only 17% in the case of girls), compared to a national average of
45% (29% for girls). The adult functional literacy rate was 12% (2% for women) in rural areas,
compared to a national average of 22% (10% for women). In 1966, EPI (Expanded Programme
of Immunization) coverage was 36% in rural areas, compared to a national average of 53%.
Almost half the rural population (46%) lived too far (over 5 km) from a primary health care
center and only half the rural population had access to clean water.
Access to basic and vocational education, finctional literacy programs, and to basic,
preventive, and primary care health services, is a prerequisite if the rural population is to
contribute fully to the social and economic development of the colntry and to benefit from that
development equitably.
3.3   Basic economic infrastructure is inadequate and in poor repair
Road network density ratios are low compared to other countries in the region, with only
8.5 km per 100 km2 and 3.4 km per 1,000 inhabitants; over half the classified road network
cannot be used all year round; and over 55% of classified roads are not in good repair.
Furthermore, the vast majority of rural communities have no access to either modem means of
communication or electric power.



36
The limited availability and deteriorated conditioni of basic economic inlfrastrlctulre
constitute a major obstacle to produictive inivestmenit in ruiral areas atnd to initegration of the
rural population into the market ecoonomy. They also make it nmich more difficul/t to raise ruiral
incomes and to ensure equitable distribuition of the fruits of growth.
4.  CHALLENGES POSED BY COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT
4.1  Immediate challenges
The rural development issues briefly outlined in Section 3 reflect the major concerns of
rural communities as revealed during consultations carried out within the framework of
preparation of the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Guinea. Both communities and
civil institutions expressed the desire to be closely involved in the development effort and their
willingness to make a more effective contribution to it. Guinea's rural strategy should therefore
aim to respond to these concerns.
The challenge here is to achieve ambitious targets in terms of improving living conditions
and standards among the rural population, while keeping within the bounds of what the country
can afford, without resorting to excessive foreig-n borrowing or upsetting key macroeconomic
balances. It is a challenge that can be met only if the country focuses primarily on continuously
improving social efficiency and the economic effectiveness of all community-based development
efforts.
The pursuit of greater social efficiency implies, first, that infrastructure and services must
be. better tailored to priority needs as perceived by the rural world itself. For that to happen,
communities themselves-either directly or through their decentralized institutions, associations,
and private entities-have to be made fully accountable for setting priorities where community
development affairs are concerned. It also implies that the State must increasingly adopt the role
of a guarantor of social equity in development, through appropriate transfers of financial
resources and management and technical skills to grass-roots rural communities and the most
disadvantaged sectors of society.
The pursuit of greater economic effectiveness derives from the need to maximize the
economic and social impact of rural development programs in an environment characterized by a
dearth of financial resources and a shortage of human skills. Experience has shown that the
economic efficiency of development programs can be greatly enhanced by a real and effective
synergy links rural communities fully involved in the practicalities of their own development
process, a motivated and effective public administration providing the necessary backing, and
associations and other private institutions capable of providing services upon demand. Such
synergy is strengthened when distinct roles and mandates are based mainly on the comparative
advantages of each of the players in the public, private, and community-organization sectors.
Experience also shows that when the population and its decentralized institutions are the heart of
local development processes, major economies are achieved with respect to financial, human,
and management resources, while transparency in the use and handling of those resources is
significantly enhanced.



37
4.2   Outlook through to the year 2010
Guinea's vision of rural development from now to the year 2010 is expressed, first, in
ambitious quantitative targetsfor improvin7g ruiral living standards. These goals are to ensure
that:
*  the great majority of the rural population emerges from the vicious circle of poverty.
The proportion of those living below the poverty line is projected to drop from 52.5%
to 40%, and of those living in extreme poverty from 18% to 12%;
*  the great majority of those living in rural areas have access to basic social services.
Projections in this regard are as follows: average gross enrollment in rural primary
schools will rise from roughly 30% to 80%, and from roughly 20% to 70% in the case
of girls; the adult functional literacy rate will rise from 10% to 40%; primary health
care coverage will rise from 46% to 95%; immunization coverage will reach 90%; and
90% of rural communities will have easy access to clean water;
-  rural-community access to transportation services is projected to improve to the point
where all CRDs in Guinea are linked to the national road network, and the number of
landlocked communities within CRDs has been cut by over half
Where the institutional aspect of community-based ruir al development processes is
concerned, Guinea has the following goals: Ruiral population groups should beconme the main
promoters and owners of ruiral development projects at the village-community level, workinig
primarily throuigh their decentralized institutions (district councils anid CRDs) and their
associations and in an atmosphere of effective partnership wvith the regional plannling alithorities
atnd the local agencies of the central government. This implies that rural population groups and
their community-based institutions will have:
* power to set community development priorities as regards social infrastructure, and to
initiate the creation and enhancement of a local environment that encourages
production initiatives;
*  ability to plan community investment programs and organize their execution;
*  capacity to raise the funds needed to put this infrastructure into place;
*  the skills required for transparent and rational management of public resources at the
community level.
As regards the other players in rural development, this vision implies that:
. the regional planning authorities will no longer encroach on the jurisdiction and
prerogatives of local governments, but instead will support them, and will lighten their
supervision, gradually replacing it with ex post monitoring;



38
*  technical agencies will gradually withdraw from their support and service roles, and
instead assume an oversight role, becoming providers of advice on policy matters,
compliance with regulations, and adherence to infrastructure technical standards and
sector priorities.
*  private, professional, and community-organization institutions will do their utmost to
create wealth, and to provide services on a contractual basis in connection with the
creation, maintenance, and management of social and economic infrastructure in rural
communities;
* mechanisms and entities will be set up, and become fully operational, in such areas as
consensus-building, decision-making, programming and follow-up, and monitoring of
transparency.
4.3   Strategy on community-based rural development
In addition to creating an economic environment that will lead to strong and sustainable
growth, the Government is pursuing a dual strategy that seeks: (1) to re-focus development
processes and the institutional framework that supports community-based rural development on
communities themselves; and (2) to introduce sectoral policies and programs that will strengthen
community-based rural development.
(1)   Re-focusing of development processes and the institutional framework supporting
community-based rural development
This re-focusing of rural development processes on communities, their local government
authorities, and community associations and private institutions is justified by the fact that the
limits of centralized management of development processes have become apparent, inasmuch as
such management leads to:
*  a qualitative and quantitative mismatch between support and services provided and
priority needs as perceived by the communities they target;
*  wastage of human and material resources in data collection and analysis, cumbersome
and ineffective decision-making processes, and over-bureaucratic implementation and
management procedures;
*  underestimation of the competencies of the various players at the local level, as well
as of the availability of local labor and materials at low opportunity cost.
This re-focusing will mainly involve:
* strengthening the skills, capacity, and resources of the decentralized rural communities
in order to enable them to respond more effectively to the priority needs of the rural
population for basic social and economic infrastructure;



39
* establishment of an operational framework for consensus-building, decision-making,
monitoring and evaluation, and transparency, bringing together all the players
involved in community-based rural development, with an emphasis on vulnerable
groups;
* establishment of a local development funding mechanism to transfer additional
resources directly to rural communities.
(2)  Introduction of sectoral policies and programs to strengthen community-based rural
development
This will be done, first, by continuing with and expanding institutional and policy reforms
throughout the economy, but with particular emphasis on the agricultural sector, in order to
stimulate stronger sustainable and equitable growth, a prerequisite if rural poverty is to be
reduced. Supporting measures will focus on social sector policies and programs, with the aim of
increasing the rural population's access to basic social services at the lowest possible cost.
4.4 Implementation methods and instruments
Implementation of the first component of this strategy will be accomplished mainly
through the Village Communities Support Program (VCSP), currently being finalized with the
participation of the main community-based rural development players and with assistance from
the country's development partners. The VCSP, which will provide program guidelines for
community-based rural development, has been designed as a long-term program, divided into
three four-year phases. The first phase will target 100 CRDs and will cover: (a) improvement and
consolidation of the regulatory and institutional framework for community-based rural
development; (b) establishment of a Local Investment Fund (LIF) to channel additional funds to
about one fifth of the CRDs in the country for financing basic social infrastructure; and (c)
improved access for isolated rural communities to the national roads network, on the basis of
repairs at critical points and establishment of mechanisms to ensure regular maintenance of
infrastructure built by Program beneficiaries. The second phase will proceed further with reform
of the institutional framework, particularly in the area of tax decentralization. It will also expand
institutional support and access to LIF financing for all CRDs in the country, besides extending
the range of eligible projects to include production-related community infrastructure from which
returns can be expected only in the long term. The third phase basically consolidates the actions
undertaken in the second phase. By the end of the third phase, the CRDs will be the cornerstones
of local governance, capable of responding effectively to community aspirations where local
development is concerned. All CRDs will have access to a wider range of infrastructure. They
will be in a position to participate in the management of other aspects of rural development
(natural resource management and promotion of local economies), and will raise the resources
needed to fund their activities. The use of local resources may also be extended to cover the
funding of community technical assistance needs (extension agents, researchers, and other
specialists).



40
In putting the second component of this strategy into effect, the Government will pursue
overall economic policy reforms conducive to stronger, sustained growth. Implementation of the
National Capacity Building Program will improve basic public services, with special emphasis
on expanding community access to high-quality social, education, health, and rural development
services. This Program will be accompanied by far-reaching institutional and policy reforms in
such sectors as rural development, education, health, and economic infrastructure sectors.
5.   MEDIUM-TERM PRIORITY ACTION PLAN
5.1   Medium-term objectives
The top medium-term priority is obviously to lay and reinforce sustainable institutional
and regulatory foundations for community-based rural development aimed at poverty reduction.
Quantitative targets for the period up to the year 2002/3 are:
*  reduction of the absolute poverty rate in rural areas from 52.5% to 48%;
*  improved access for the rural population to basic social services, so that immunization
coverage increases from 36% to 70%, primary health care coverage from 70% to 85%,
and access to clean water from 50% to 75%;
*  improvement of basic economic infrastructure, so that: (i) all CRDs in the country are
linked to the national road system; (ii) the number of isolated communities is cut by
increasing the proportion of roads that can be used all year round from 50% to 70%;
(iii) all rural communities gain access to modern means of communication, especially
radio and telephone; and (iv) rural communities enjoy greater access to modern and/or
renewable sources of power (electrification).
These targets constitute an essential intermediate stage on the critical path toward
Guinea's long-term vision of community-based rural development. They will be achieved
thanks to a medium-term priority action program, based on the dual strategy outlined above: (1)
re-focusing of development processes and the institutional framework supporting community-
based rural development on communities themselves; and (2) introduction of sectoral policies
and programs designed to strengthen community-based rural development.
5.2   Re-focusing development processes and the institutional framework supporting
community-based rural development
This re-focusing will be accomplished mainly through the first phase of the Village
Communities Support Program (VCSP). The key priorities will be: (i) to improve the regulatory
and institutional framework for decentralization; (ii) to strengthen the capacity of CRDs to
design, carry out, and manage community-based rural development programs, and to mobilize
funds for local rural development needs; (iii) to equip CRDs and village communities with
effective mechanisms for consensus-building, decision-making, programming and follow-up,
and monitoring of transparency that bring together all stakeholders in the community-based rural



41
development process; and (iv) to establish a Local Investment Fund (LIF), cofinanced by the
Government and its development partners, to transfer financial resources to rural communities on
a scale in keeping with their own contributions and the financial status of their local government
authority.
(1)   Improving the regulatory and institutional framework for decentralization:
The existing institutional and regulatory framework for decentralization is characterized
by (i) a lack of clarity with regard to the respective roles, missions, and powers of regional
planning officials, prefects, sub-prefects, and CRD elected officials, (ii) shortcomings in the
application of existing regulations, and (iii) impracticalities in the current procedures for settling
jurisdictional conflicts, all the more frequent because the jurisdictions of sub-prefects and CRDs
continue to overlap. The Government's aims here are to:
* establish mechanisms for regular renewal of elected local-government community
councils;
* rationalize the regulations governing decentralization, in order to clarify the roles,
functions, and powers of decentralized entities and regional planning authorities,
particularly with regard to the supervision of CRDs by prefects and sub-prefects;
* issue supplementary regulations, especially in connection with the remedies available
to local elected officials in the event of jurisdictional conflicts;
* reform decentralized taxation so as improve revenue collection, raise the percentage
that reverts to local government, and simplify administrative procedures;
- establish an observatory to monitor decentralization, consensus building, and
execution of decentralization policies,
* organize an information and training course on local governance, targeting the main
stakeholders in decentralization, specifically: the central government staff responsible
for regional planning and for supporting local governments, prefects and sub-prefects
and their staff, and local elected officers of district councils and CRDs.
(2)   Building up of CRD capacity:
Besides the information and training programs mentioned above, additional support
programs will be introduced for the benefit of CRDs and community-based associations. CRDs
included in the VCSP will have a community delegate, whose job will be to support locally
elected CRD officers and CRD community development councils in the design, implementation,
management, and monitoring of community-based rural development programs. The community
delegate will also serve as a kind of interface between the CRD, the Local Investment Fund, and
the local branches of central government agencies. Facilitators trained on the job will assist
village communities with identification of local development priorities, and organization of the
creation and regular upkeep of community infrastructure.



42
Support will be provided to CRDs seeking to increase decentralized tax revenue and to
raise additional financial resources, particularly from expatriate associations. In order to ensure
transparent administration of the decentralized tax system, tax collection accountants will
gradually be seconded to the CRDs.
(3)   Setting up effective mechanisms for consensus building:
The components of the plan to set up effective mechanisms for consensus-building,
decision-making, programming and follow-up, and monitoring of transparency will consist
primarily of:
*  the above-mentioned decentralization observatory;
*  establishment, in each CRD, of a community development forum grouping elected
local officials and representatives of councils of elders, associations and private
institutions, and vulnerable groups (women and youth, in particular), with a view to
arbitrating development program priorities in the CRD;
*  establishment, in each CRD, of an elected transparency committee;
*  support for the formation of works, maintenance, and infrastructure management
committees.
(4) Establishment of a Local Investment Fund (LIF):
The LIF will serve as a supplementary financing mechanism for micro-projects for
the creation or rehabilitation of basic social and economic infrastructure - micro-projects
identified, prepared, and executed by rural communities themselves. Communities and CRDs
will both make contributions in cash and kind to these ventures. Infrastructure eligible for LIF
funding during the first phase of the VCSP will mainly comprise classrooms, health posts, water
supply points, and latrines. A proportion of these funds will be channeled toward an Innovation
Fund to finance pilot schemes and to test ways of financing other types of public infrastructure.
All donors will be invited to use the LIF as a mechanism for transferring the financial resources
they earmark for community-based rural development.
5.2   Measures in support of community-based rural development
(1)   At the overall economic policy level:
The idea is first to continue with, consolidate, and expand institutional and policy reforms
throughout the economy, in order to promote stronger sustainable and equitable growth, a
prerequisite for development leading to a reduction in rural poverty. The objectives of the
reforms will be:



43
* to maintain a balanced and stable macroeconomic framework;
* to rationalize overall and sectoral economic policies so as to further promote
productive private investment of the kind that fosters growth and job creation,
especially in rural areas;
. to enhance basic economic infrastructure, particularly in the transport, power, and
communications sectors, both quantitatively and qualitatively.
(2)  At the sectoral policy level (in education, health, and agriculture):
The overall measures indicated above will be accompanied by institutional, policy,
planning, and management reforms in the education and health sectors, broadly aiming to:
* increase budget allocations to these sectors, and improve the management and use of
these resources;
- promote a more concerted effort to improve the distribution of decision-making
powers and technical and management capacities, as well as of human and material
resources, while simultaneously strengthening the technical and management
capabilities of the local branches of central government agencies;
* introduce human resource management systems in such a way as to stimulate the local
branches of central government agencies into providing high quality demand-driven
public services, in coordination with community-based institutions and associations;
* transfer to local government and grass-roots community institutions the responsibility
for public services of interest to local communities, services which they are in a
position to provide at lower cost.
Education: The plan is to consolidate and expand the reforms undertaken during the first
education sector adjustment program (PASEI), especially those related to primary education and
functional and vocational literacy programs. A better match between the contents of training
programs and the needs of beneficiary rural communities will be sought through more effective
participation by the latter in defining the objectives to be pursued in the training programs, and
regular assessments of the impact of those courses on target groups. Investment programs will
aim to maximize coverage of the rural population and to reduce inter-regional and gender
disparities. Mechanisms will be devised to involve communities in the selection, evaluation,
and, if need be, the recruitment of teachers, in order to narrow and eventually eliminate the
marked gaps between the number of equipped classrooms and the number of teachers.
Health:    The plan is to:
* consolidate and strengthen achievements in community management of health centers
and community-based health care;



44
*  provide support upon request to rural communities with community-based health care
planning, management, monitoring and evaluation;
*  enhance the quality and extend the coverage of health education and family planning
programs in rural areas, especially in preventive medicine, by using rural radio
stations, markets, mosques, and other meeting points for women, men and young
people.
Agricultural: Given its enormous potential and importance as the chief source of employment
and income for the vast majority of those living in rural areas, this sector, and its subsectors, are
called upon to play a key role in improving living standards and reducing poverty in rural areas.
The Second Agricultural Development Policy Letter recently approved by the Government has
already paved the way for faster growth of the value added in this sector. However, there is an
urgent need to define an institutional policy for the sector in line with the principle of re-focusing
community-based rural development processes on rural communities themselves and their
decentralized institutions. The main thrust of such a policy can be summarized as follows:
*  to complete the withdrawal by the State from all production and marketing activities
which the private sector is in a position to take over;
3  to identify, with the help of specialists in this field and the decentralized institutions,
those powers suitable for gradual transfer to the latter, and the procedures and
schedule for this process;
*  to re-focus the activities of the government agencies responsible for agriculture in the
broad sense on the State's oversight function, especially in the areas of policy design;
policy monitoring and evaluation; regulation and control; and natural disaster
management.
In addition, the plans for reorganization of the government agencies responsible for the
agricultural sector in the broad sense, which are currently being formulated, should ensure that
decentralization is accompanied by an effective deconcentration of decision-making functions,
human resource capacity, and material resources - initially, at least, at the prefecture level. The
reorganization should also take into account the transfer of powers to specialists in this field and
to decentralized institutions.
Letter sent by H.E. M. Cellou Diallo, Ministre du Plan et de la Cooperation
Conakry, December 30, 1998



Annex IA
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Project Design Summary
Goal-Purpose-Output relation of the Village Communities Support Program (VCSP)
Reduce poverty, promote sustainable growth
C,<'                     and improve the well-being of the rural
GO9                             population ill Guinea
|                                         Promote economic and social
Strengthen local governance and                              empowerment of the rural population,
including women, youthi and
civil society in rural Guinea
,?                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~marginaliz ed groups
o/ o             Set-up and operationalize an effective and efficient system for increasing rural acccss to basic infrastructure
coO
Support to the Local Development Process                      Local Investment Fund
1. Overall policy, legal, fiscal, and institutional           Demand-driven Village Investment Fund and
frameworks strengthened to enable decentralization            Innovation Fund set-up and operating
2. Capacity of key line ministries, governmental              Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Rural Roads
institutions and regional authorities improved to             Environmentally-friendly rural roads rehabilitation
support decentralization                                      and maintenance program being executed
3. Capacity of CRDs, local institutions, and rural
communities strengthened to identify, plan,
implement, operate and maintain basic infrastructure
and services



Annex 1A
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Project Design Summary
Sector-related CAS Goal:            1. Improvement in key poverty indices *  Poverty studies and surveys    Political stability exists in the
To reduce poverty, promote sustainable  (e.g. increase rural GDP per capita,  .  Annual UNDP Human       country
growth, and improve the well-being of   food security, literacy, incidence of  Development Reports      The agricultural sector conthiues
the rural population by empowering      disease, infant and child mortality)  .  National statistics    to grow, at least 4% per year
local institutions and communities  2. Mobilization of national and local   .  National and local budgets
resources for rural development
Long-term Program Objectives:
*  Strengthen local governance and    1. New, demand-driven decision-    .  Beneficiary assessments and   GOG remains committed to
civil society in rural Guinea       making processes and structu.res for  citizen satisfaction surveys    decentralization, and strengthens
*  Promote social and economic          rural development cstabUished and   .  External financial audits  policies for decentralized and
empowerment of rural population,    operational                         of national, regional, and  participatory rural development
including women, youth, and other  2. Greater transparency and          local budgets
marginalized groups                 accountability at all levels     .  Aniual VCSP progress reports Rural populations respond to new
3. Broader access to higher quality,    .  Periodic reports by      opportunities for expanded
lower cost, sustainable basic       prefectures, CRDs and service economic and social participation
services                            providers
4. Enhanced local capacity to mobilize a  Mid-term and final project    Consistent tangible progress
the resources for the establishment,  evaluations               toward goals
rehabilitation, operation, and  *  Statistical records of
maintenance of basic community      infrastructure use
infrastructure
5. Broader representation of
previously under-represented
groups (women, youth, migrants,
the poor) to give them a voice in
local affairs



Project Objectives
*  Set up and operationalize an    1. Central government agencies and    .  External financial audits of    Banking system operational at
effective and efficient, decentralized  decentralized services are     national, regional, and local   local level
system for local development       effectively supporting local       budgets
development efforts            *  Review of diagnostic studies,  Participatory approaches adopted
2. Additional CRDs are prepared for    PIAs and training programs   by all project stakeholders at
*  Increase access of rural population  mobilization under an eventual  .  Periodic DNGR reports      central and local level
to basic infrastructure and services  Phase II                     .  Annual VCSP progress reports
3. CRDs plan, execute, maintain, and  .  Periodic reports by CRDs and  Local governments
evaluate basic infrastructures, and  service providers        representatives have been elected
can design comprehensive Local    *  Mid-term and end of Phase I  in a transparent manner
Development Plans                  project evaluations
4. Improved access by roads to rural   .  Ongoing social assessment at
areas, increased reliability of feeder    the CRD level
road system, and reduced
transportation costs
Project Components                                                                                                                        -
Project Outputs:
A. Local Investment Fund           1. Contractual agreements signed with  *  PlAs                     MID, VCSP Coordination units
Village Investment Fund and            70 CRDs                         *  Analytical accounting system   and DNGR provide timely review
Innovation Support Fund set- up and    2. CRDs successfully raise the 20%    .  Annual audits         and response to CRDs requests
operating                              local community contribution    *  Community Forum meeting
(including labor, material and     minutes                     Timely availability of budgetary
funds) for micro-projects      a  Diagnosis PIAs               resources to provide matching
3. Funds are passed in transparent and  *  Quarterly progress VCSP  funds to implement CRDs
timely manner to the local level, and    regional unit reports  requests
from local level to contractors, for  *  Semi-annual VCSP progress
approved community activities      report
4. CRDs successfully complete micro-
projects funded under their PIA
5. Maintenance fund, equivalent to 1%
of the value of completed micro-
projects, established in 70 CRDs



B. Support to local development          Review of decentralization's legal
processes                                and regulatory texts completed by   . Legal studies
1. Overall policy, legal, fiscal, and    mid-term, and changes promulgated * "Journal Officiel", ministerial    Efficient coordination of agencies
institutional frameworks strengthened to  before end of project             decrees, and other legal texts    responsible for program
enable decentralization              7. New system for fiscal transfers, and  * VCSP progress reports      implementation in the three
local tax collection and utilization is . Election observation reports  components
tested                           * CRD and service provider
8. Laws, decrees, other texts on      reports
decentralization translated into local * Specific and technical studies
languages, distributed and
explained to prefectures and CRDs
2. Capacity of key ministries,       9. Training to strengthen capacity of   . VCSP financial reports      Availability and quality of private
governmental institutions, and regional  national, regional and decentralized  * Analytical accounting system  services providers
authorities improved to support          services is provided based on    * Annual audit
decentralization                         continuous skill-gap analysis    . Organizational diagrams and    Democratic process remains
10. Decentralization Forum established    work description of decentralized functional (transparency and no
and functioning effectively        public services                political interference)
11. DNGR maintenance unit            * Diagnosis and PlAs                                                   oo
restructured and MID agencies    * VCSP progress reports
responsible for decentralization  * Annual training programs
rationalized
12. Quality and timely provision of
support by decentralized services,
prefectures, and CRDs for local
development are improved



.   ;  -or  act Indicators       Monitoing and  valuation          Criticaw tio
3. Capacity of CRDs, local institutions,  2. Training to strengthen local  .  Skill-gap analysis reports
and commnunities strengthened to       capacity provided, based on     *  Studies
identify, plan, implement, evaluate, and  continuous skill-gap analysis  *  Annual Training Programs
maintain basic infrastructure and  3. Community Forums convene         X  Community Forum meeting
services                               regularly, and maintain transparent  minutes
records of their deliberations  *  Annual budget of CRDs
4. Participating CRDs prepare      *  Training inaterial
diagnostics and PlAs in
participatory manner
5. Participatory tools for PDL
designed/tested
4



C. Maintenance and Rehabilitation of   6. Maintenance strategy formulated
Rural Roads                           and implemented                 .  Mid-term and end of project
Environment-friendly rural roads   7. Contractors will rehabilitate 90    evaluation reports
renovation and maintenance program     kms. They will also spot-improve   .  Beneficiary assessment of
being executed locally                 150 kms and maintain 500 kms of    services providers
priority feeder roads per year  .  VCSP progress reports
8. Locally-selected maintenance
committees (CVEP) are operational
in participating communities
9. Environmental mitigation plan
designed                                   .
Project Components, Sub-           Project Inputs:
components:                        1. US$ 9.96 million                *  Financial reports and audits
1. Local Investment Fund                                              .  CRD management and
1.1 Village Investment Fund                                              procurement, and financial
1.2 Innovation Fund                                                      reports                                                        >
.  VCSP progress reports                                          0
. Annual work program
2. Support to the local development  2. US$10.53 million              *  Financial reports and audits   *  Support to the M&E system
process                                                               *  VCSP progress reports
2.1 Improvement and enforcement of                                    .  Annual work program
regulatory framework
2.2 Formulation of a fiscal
decentralization strategy and
execution of reforms
2.3 Capacity strengthening of central
and deconcentrated government
services involved in decentralization
(DND, DNAT, Prefectures)
2.4 Capacity strengthening of CRDs
2.5 Information and awareness program



3. Maintenance and Rehabilitation of   3. US$11.06 million         Financial reports and audits
Rural Roads                                                        VCSP Coordination Unit, MID
3.1 Institutional support to DNGR                                  and DNGR management and
3.2 Elaboration and implementation of a                            procurement reports
rural roads maintenance strategy                                VCSP progress report
3.3 Implementation of priority                                     Annual work program
rehabilitation program
4. Overall program management    4. US$5.66 million                Financial reports and audits
4.1 Establishment of a project                                     VCSP progress report
management unit                                                 Annual work program
4.2 Implementation of a monitoring and
evaluation system
Li



52
Annex 2
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Detailed Project Description
The project (Phase I of the PACV) will include four components: (i) Local Investment Fund; (ii)
Support for Local Development; (iii) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads; and (iv)
Program Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
PROJECT COMPONENT 1 - US$9.96 MILLION: LOCAL INVESTMENT FUND (LIF)
Description and Organization of the Component
1.    The purpose of the Local Investment Fund is to stimulate local development by transferring
grants directly to Rural Development Communities (communautes rurales de developpement -
CRDs). The LIF has the following fundamental characteristics:
*  participatory identification and selection of micro-projects;
*  mandatory local contributions;
*  transparent management of resources;
local control of all construction work performed under contract; and
*  local responsibility for maintenance.
2.    The Local Investment Fund has two components: (i) a Village Investment Fund (VIF) which
constitutes 95% of the component's funds and, (ii) an Innovationi Fund (IF) representing 5% of
funding.
3.    During Phase I, the VIF will fund basic infrastructure identified by the communities (village
access roads, small bridges and drifts, health posts, schools, latrines, and water points). It is expected
that each community will receive the same yearly allocation which will be disbursed in installments.
Approximately 70 CRDs will benefit from funding during Phase I. The access of the communities
to this fund will be based on clear and specific eligibility criteria to be detailed in a Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) and binding for all participating CRDs.  For each type of
infrastructure, the VIF will contribute 80%, and the CRDs and the beneficiary populations a
minimum of 20% of the cost in the form of labor, materials and/or money.
4.    An action research set-up will be created to improve, on a continuous basis, the
implementation procedures for the FIV and to prepare the modalities for broadening the menu of
micro-projects eligible for funding to community productive investments. The set-up will include
three test operations to be carried out under IFAD's Pilot Initiative on Productive Community
Investments (IPICI) in "Guinee Forestiere", "Moyenne Guinee", and "Haute Guinee"; and a fourth
test operation to be carried out by the African Development Foundation (ADF) in "Guin6e
Maritime". Findings from the two-year test operations on community productive investments will
be examined during the VCSP mid-term review to determine the opportunity and modalities of
funding these types of investments. In addition, these pilots will finance technical support for the
implementation of these investments and other action-research activities in critical areas of



53
community participation and representation, local planning, etc. These pilot activities should
allow the program to identify complementarities between various types of community-based
infrastructure and develop a Project Implementation Manual for productive-type investments.
a) Identification and Selection of Subprojects
5.    Through a service provider, and in cooperation with the CRDs, the VCSP will contract
Community Development Agents and community outreach workers who will be in charge of
informnation and participatory appraisal activities at the village and district level.  Outreach
activities will help the community's different social and economic groups identify their priorities
for basic infrastructure.
6.    The priorities identified by the population will be reviewed and consolidated at the district
level prior to being submitted to the CRD's Community Council for final selection. The
Community Council which is comprised of all the elected local officials and representatives of the
CRD's different social and economic groups, is presided by the President of the CRD and is its
decision-making body. The Council will be in charge of approving the Annual Investment Plans
detailing the costs of each micro-project, implementation procedures and the contribution of the
community.
7.    The CRD will contract for the necessary technical assistance to develop the projects'
technical documents.  These contracts can be made with small engineering offices, NGOs or
deconcentrated public services. Each CRD can spend up to 8% of the cost of a micro-project to
pay for these services.' In case of agreements with the deconcentrated technical services the
modalities will be specified by an overall agreement between the project and these services.
8.    The AIP will be forwarded to the Prefecture and VCSP's regional office to ensure
compliance with the micro-project's technical specifications and eligibility criteria. These two
instances have, however, no authority to decide whether the micro-projects are appropriate. If the
normative control is positive, the national coordination unit will disburse funds to the CRD. If the
control is negative, the CRD will be inforned of the reasons so that another application can be
prepared.
b) Implementationi and Maintenance of Subprojects
9.    CRDs will manage and supervise VlF's capital investments. They will mobilize local
contributions and negotiate contracts with service providers for the implementation of the micro-
projects.
10.   The maintenance of micro-projects will be under local responsibility and will be made
possible through the creation of an Infrastructure Maintenance Committee (IMC) which will
coordinate the maintenance activities of the CRD and will organize maintenance committees for
the different micro-projects. The CRD will establish a budget line for the maintenance of the
' The 8% will be taken from the financing envelope of the micro-project, which is provided at 80% by the VIF and at
20% by the beneficiaries.



54
infrastructure for which it will be responsible. A maintenance fund equivalent to 1% of the total
cost of the micro-project will be established and will demonstrate the willingness of the
beneficiaries to maintain the infrastructure.'
c) Monitoring Annual Investment Plans
11.   The Prefecture will ensure compliance with the Project Implementation Manual.  A
technical annex will specify the responsibilities of the Prefecture's deconcentrated technical
services. These services will ensure that subprojects have met all eligibility criteria and standards.
In addition, they will also verify that the proposed health and educational facilities are consistent
with national standards and guidelines. The deconcentrated services will prepare an activity report
twice a year to be submitted to the regional authorities, the appropriate technical ministries, and
the coordinating unit. This should improve coordination and planning between the regional and
national level. In exchange for services rendered, the Prefectures will receive from Government a
fee equivalent to 2% of the VIF allocation to the CRD.
Implementation of the Component
12.   Management of the LIF at the national level will be the responsibility of a Project
Coordinator who heads the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). Funds for the LIF will reside in a
special account at a commercial bank in Conakry, from which transfers in local currency will be
made to individual accounts of qualifying CRDs.  The special account will be under the
responsibility of the PCU. The CRDs will be responsible for the correct use of the transferred
funds as well as for the funds coming from the CRDs and from the beneficiaries. CRDs will open
accounts at branches of local commercial banks following approval by the PCU and the World
Bank (IDA).
13.   The CRDs will be responsible for implementation of community infrastructure micro-
projects qualifying for LIF financing along the following principles: (i) identification, selection,
operation, oversight and maintenance, by and for the benefit of village communities;
(ii) contractual implementation of works by local artisans, private enterprises, or by the
communities themselves; (iii) responsibility for technical supervision and monitoring of micro-
project implementation shared by CRDs, territorial administration and deconcentrated sectoral
services. In these cases, the CRD will be assisted by Community Development.
14.   In line with the provisions of the current law on decentralization, the CRD Council (le
Conseil Communautaire), will be expanded by adding representatives of civil society - in
particular women, youth, and other key persons involved in the development process - to the
current elected members (two per district). It will decide annually on the micro-projects to receive
funding from among the priority projects proposed to the CRD by the communities, and in general
coordinate development initiatives. Through a service provider and in cooperation with the CRD,
the VCSP will recruit a Community Development Agent to assist the CRD in providing support
for the local sub-project process, from "animation" through project execution. He/she will
combine technical and "animation" skills and will be a conduit for information between the CRD,
' The 1% will be part of the beneficiaries contribution (20% of investment cost).



55
LIF management, and the communities, and act as an honest broker and advisor to the
communities. The capacity of the communities to manage and finance the ongoing operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure established will be strengthened, and the means/organizational
arrangements to take on the new responsibilities created.
15.   Over a one-year period commencing in January 1998, project concepts and approaches are
being tested in five pilot CRDs through sub-contracts to NGOs and ADF with relevant field
experience in participatory techniques and community development. Based on the lessons learnt
during these pilots, the project approach will be reviewed, and the details of its implementation
adjusted prior to credit effectiveness to better reflect local realities; these will be reflected in an
Operations' Manual which forms part of the ongoing process of project preparation.
PROJECT COMPONENT 2 - US$10.53 MILLION: SUPPORT TO THE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS
Description and Organization of the Component
16.  In its efforts to make decentralization and participation effective tools for local
development, the program  faces three serious challenges: (i) the appropriateness of the
institutional framework, (ii) the financial resources of the local communities, and (iii) the human
resource capacity at the community level. Phase I therefore includes a component dedicated to
creating conducive conditions for local development.
17.   The activities of this component will focus on improving the institutional and regulatory
framework and equipping Guinea with the tools to analyze and implement local development;
increasing local resource mobilization; and improving the capacity of local participants to take
charge of their own development and sustain their investments (maintenance and management).
18.   This component will have the following sub-components: a) Improving the legal and
regulatory framework and its enforcement; b) Fiscal and financial decentralization; c) Providing
support to CRDs; d) Capacity building at the national and deconcentrated levels; and e) Education
and information.
19.   The Ministry of the Interior and Decentralization, through the services of the National
Directorate for Decentralization, will be in charge of implementing this component.
a) Improving and Enforcing Laws and Regulations
20.   A number of studies have indicated that the decentralization process is incomplete and
should be improved. The purpose of this component is therefore to streamline the legal and
regulatory framework and to improve its implementation. This includes revising legal texts and
promulgating missing legislation to establish a consistent environment for local development. A
dissemination strategy and information campaign will be developed and implemented.
Furthermore, a series of studies will be conducted and mechanisms will be devised to improve the
application of legislation.



56
21.   The current legislation on decentralization and deconcentration will be thoroughly
reviewed with the help of reputable experts. Under the guidance of the National Directorate for
Decentralization (DND1) and the National Directorate for the Administration of the Territory
(DNAT2) and in consultation with the line ministries of Mines, Environment, Urban Development,
and Finance), the consultants will make recommendations to streamline and update Guinea's legal
framework on decentralization. These texts will then be discussed and adopted by the National
Assembly and subsequently published and disseminated to those concerned. DND and DNAT will
organize training workshops to make these new provisions known. Finally, the main texts on
decentralization will be translated in the local languages and made available to CRDs.
22.   At the same time, a consulting firm will conduct an organizational audit of the Ministry of
the Interior and Decentralization (MID)3. The purpose of this audit will be to define the
organization, duties and resources of the MID in terms of its mandate for promoting local
development. To this end, the audit will review the profile, qualifications and performance of
staff and match them against the new organizational requirements. The consulting firm will be
asked to review in particular MID's monitoring, support, and control responsibilities.
23.   Finally, a study will be conducted to identify the features of a grievance system and
propose appropriate procedures to implement it.
24.   International and national consultants will be recruited to support this component.
b) Fiscal and Financial Decentralizationi
25.   To permit local government to carry new responsibilities, it is necessary to channel
adequate resources. The purpose of this component is to improve the CRDs' capacity to mobilize
financial resources (local and transferred) thus enabling them to fulfill their assigned
responsibilities for local development. To achieve this, the VCSP will conduct a comprehensive
review of local finances concerning: (i) the relationship between CRDs and taxpayers; (ii) local
taxation and its cost-effectiveness; and, (iii) the relationship between CRDs and the Government.
Immediate steps can then be taken to improve local finances and, in particular, to formulate far
reaching reforms for financial decentralization.
26.   A consulting firm will be hired to assist in the implementation of this component based on
the following plan of action:
* conduct an analysis through surveys in the country's 303 CRDs;
* disseminate the analysis to allow a national dialogue;
* formulate reforms, prepare a framework for legislation and fiscal instruments; and
* disseminate and validate these reforms to all concerned.
'Division Nationale de la Decentralisation (DND)
2Division Nationale de l'Administration du Territoire (DNAT)
3 Ministere de l'Interieur et de la Decentralisation (MID)



57
27.   The complexity and the challenge of such a study requires that it be monitored and
properly managed by an international expert in cooperation with a local professional.
28.   These reforms will be implemented during Phase II of the project. Should the mid-term or
the annual reviews show that progress in the formulation of reforms is faster than expected, their
implementation may be advanced.
c) Providing Support to CRDs
29.   This component strives to improve local governance and the capacity of local elected
officials and communities to promote a participatory and equitable local development. To achieve
this goal, outreach, training, exchange, and networking activities are planned which aim to
strengthen CRDs' capacity to conceive, plan, prepare, and implement community development
projects. The VCSP will finance the assistance of Community Development Agents who will help
the communities in their development activities. These field agents will also act as liaison
between the service providers, the communities, the CRDs, and the VCSP.
30.   The VCSP will sub-contract with local organizations to provide technical, administrative,
and financial training to CRDs' local elected officials and staff. In addition, local organizations
will also organize workshops for elected officials, community leaders, and deconcentrated
personnel to discuss decentralization issues as well as the rights and responsibilities of all
stakeholders at the local level.
31.   Finally, the VCSP will facilitate the creation of consultation fora and networks where
elected officials will be. able to meet and share their experience. The project will also support the
establishment of an association of CRD presidents and a unit to coordinate the training of local
elected officials. Such an association will help local government take part in the dialogue at the
national level aimed at improving community life. Visits from African experts from neighboring
countries will enrich this process.
d) Capacity Building at the National and Deconcentrated Level
32.   This component seeks to reinforce the capacity and competence of those institutions and
staff responsible for the drafting and implementation of decentralized rural development policy.
To reach this goal, staff at the national and deconcentrated levels will receive training from
national and international organizations.  The organizational audit carried out under sub-
component (a) will redefine the functions of the different departments. A minimum of logistical
support will enable the DND and DNAT to better fulfill their roles of follow-up and training.
Furthermore, the above-mentioned coordinating unit for training will not only coordinate training
activities but also define and implement quality standards.
33.   A national Decentralization Forum will be created which will enable MID to engage policy
reflection and effectively lead the local development process. This Forum will bring together
officials from different ministries, staff from deconcentrated services and representatives from
decentralized organizations. The Forum will provide exchange of information, guidance and
studies. It can formulate policy and propose actions which will then be presented to the inter-



58
ministerial steering committee for validation. The discussion topics, which will be defined later,
may for example deal with institutional anchorage, administrative boundaries, allocation of the
head tax or the sectoral competencies of the CRDs. The Forum will be equipped to carry out well-
defined studies and organize round tables. It is also envisioned that contractual arrangements to
conduct studies will be made with the university.
34.   This component will receive financing for national and international technical assistance,
workshops, and operating equipment.
e) Information and Communication
35.   This sub-component will inform the public about the VCSP and its activities. It will also
train VCSP's staff in local development methodologies for rural areas and sensitize them to the
approach of the project. The project will fund training activities and workshops to be conducted
by international and national technical assistance providers.
Implementation of the Component
36.  Implementation of this component will be the responsibility of the Ministry in charge of
decentralization, currently the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization. Most of the planned
studies, training and communication/"animation" activities will be contracted out to qualified
national and intemational service provider, NGOs, and/or private sector consulting firms.
PROJECT COMPONENT 3 - US$11.06 MILLION: MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION OF RURAL
ROADS
Description and Organization of the Component
37.   This component will develop a strategy for the management of the rural roads network,
implement a priority maintenance and rehabilitation program and support the reorganization of the
Maintenance Unit of the National Directorate of Rural Engineering services (DNGR).
a) Definition and Implementation of Maintenance Strategies
38.   The project will develop a management strategy for the rural roads network. An extensive
review of the institutional, financial and technical aspects of this network is currently underway in
conjunction with the World Bank and the French Development Agency (AFD). This initiative
will continue through a series of pilot activities which will subsequently be evaluated and scaled-
up. A management framework, consistent with the on-going decentralization process, and based
on the realistic mobilization of internal and external resources will be developed and implemented.
39.   One of the conclusions of the above-mentioned review is to manage the rural roads
network as a three-tiered hierarchy which assigns the following responsibilities: (i) CRDs
(community and village network), (ii) Prefecture (prefectoral network) or any other intermediate
decentralized level, and (iii) DNGR (network of non-rehabilitated and non-classified roads). This
classification of roads reflects a willingness to assign responsibility to different levels and to
decentralize the duties of DNGR's portfolio.



59
40.   The VCSP will fund local and intemational consultants, small equipment and training for
Village Road Maintenance Committees (CVEP-Comites Villageois d'Entretien), and training for
DNGR staff at the central level, regional (BTGR') and prefectoral level (SPGR2).
b) Priority Program: Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance
41.   DNGR will contract with small and medium size enterprises for the gradual improvement
of rural roads previously rehabilitated by DNGR, using engineering for development techniques
wherever feasible. With available financing this will allow for the treatment of a cumulative 150
km of critical spots per year and provide periodic maintenance work for about 500 km annually.
Rehabilitation will be limited to approximately 90 kms and needs to be justified by eligibility
criteria. The programming of works will be based on a rural roads database developed by DNGR
and will be supplemented by multi-criteria analysis. This database will be made more operational
through project assistance.
42.   The CRDs of Phase I will have priority for periodic maintenance and rehabilitation.
Environmental aspects will systematically be taken into consideration (planting of trees,
restoration of quarries, etc.).
43.   The project will fund civil engineering construction and training.
c) Institutional Support/Reorganization of the Maintenance Unit
44.   DNGR is in transition to become a "service provider" with a decentralized structure which
will enable it to respond more efficiently to the needs of the community. To support this
restructuring effort, an organizational audit of DNGR's Division for Maintenance and Local
Government Assistance (DEAC3) will be carried out. This evaluation will review the staff of
DNGR, BTGR and SPGR in terms of profile, qualifications and performance. Recommendations
will then be made to decentralize and redeploy these services. Training and technical assistance
efforts will be aimed primarily at the prefectoral services (SPGR) to improve their capacity of
providing assistance to the communities.
45.   The project plans to purchase vehicles and equipment and cover the cost of technical
assistance and training.
Implementation of the Component
46.   The execution of this component will be the responsibility of the Direction Nationale du
Genie Rural within the Ministry in charge of agriculture, currently the Ministry of Agriculture
(DNGR/MA). DNGR will be responsible for the definition and oversight of the overall strategy
for component implementation to be validated at the regional and local levels. Works for
rehabilitation and for critical point treatments will be contracted out to qualified companies.
'Bureaux Techniques du Gdnie Rural (BTGR)
2Svices Prefectoraux du Genie Rural (SPGR)
3Division d'Entretien et d'Appui aux Collectivites (DEAC)



60
DNGR's regional services will be in charge of the contractual arrangements. Maintenance of
district level roads will be the responsibility of local maintenance committees to be trained for
these functions by DNGR and the BTGRs. An environmental mitigation unit will be established
within the Rural Works Division to monitor/mitigate environmental effects of micro
infrastructures, propose and implement appropriate mitigation measures.
PROJECT COMPONENT 4 - US$5.66 MILLION: PROJECr COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
Description and Organization of the Component
47.   The overall management and coordination of the project will be entrusted to a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Plan. It will be a lightweight structure with most
of the day-to-day management of project activities being the responsibility of executing line
ministries. Its main focus will thus be coordination, liaison, supervision, monitoring, and longer-
term planning and policy support. In addition, it will assure overall financial management and
accounting. It will also have direct responsibility for overseeing the operation of the LIF, whose
day-to-day management will be handled by four regional offices. This will reduce time delays and
bring VIF operations closer to the CRDs and communities. While the regional coordinators and
the Community Development Agents will monitor VIF activities and ensure the correct use of VIF
funds, they will have no power to reject or change micro-projects proposed by the CRDs, unless
they do not conform to the agreed criteria. The decision on which priority micro-projects to be
submitted for funding will rest totally wth the CRDs.
48.   To facilitate the programming, coordination and monitoring of VCSP's operations, the
Coordination Unit will establish a VCSP Management Committee which will convene once a
month to review the progress of the project, ensure complementarity and an efficient coordination
of the activities of the different project components, and consolidate programs, budgets, as well as
quarterly and annual progress reports.
49.   The PCU will be the secretariat of the Steering Committee and will therefore prepare
documents commensurate with its functions. The Coordination Unit will be in charge of preparing
consolidated biannual activity programs and related annual budget proposals. These will be based
on the annual programs and budgets prepared by the executing agencies of the different project
component. The consolidated budgets and programs will be submitted to the Steering Committee
for approval. Once approved, they will be submitted to the co-financiers of the project.
50.   Project oversight and orientation will be the responsibility of a Project Steering Committee
(PSC) composed of representatives of the implementing agencies and the key stakeholders. The
PSC will organize at least one annual joint meeting with the Government and the donors
participating in the project's financing. The meeting will: (i) review the proposed annual work
project; (ii) review the implementation status and progress toward achievement of project's
objectives; (iii) decide on necessary corrective actions relative to project implementation; and
(iv) coordinate the various projects in the area of decentralized rural development.



61
The PSC's composition will be as follows:
*  a representative from the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization, who will be the PSC's
president;
*  two representatives from the Ministry of Plan and the Ministry of Agriculture, one of
whom will be the PSC's vice-president;
*  one representative each from the Ministry of Finance, Education, Health, and Public
Works;
*  three representatives from civil society (NGOs and other private institutions);
*  four representatives of CRD presidents, one from each of the four natural regions.
Financial System and Audit
51.   Special accounts will be established for each component. The services involved in the
different components will maintain separate financial records in compliance with generally
accepted accounting principles and will prepare separate financial statements. The accounting
information will be consolidated at the end of each fiscal year. The financial services of the each
executing agency will be in charge of preparing the financial records of its component. The
Administrative and Financial Officer of VCSP's Coordination Unit will consolidate the financial
statements for the activities funded by the World Bank. The officer will make the necessary
arrangements to conduct the annual audit of VCSP's Coordination Unit and the various executing
agencies. The Government will ensure that the external auditors are independent and approved by
the World Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation
52.   The objective of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is to respond to the internal
management and supervision needs of all the project's stakeholders, including the executing
agencies responsible for implementing the different project components, CRDs for the micro-
projects, the Steering Committee and donors, including the Government. In addition, this system
will have to meet the specific needs of an APL. As such, the M&E system shall, on a regular
basis, provide pertinent information on performance indicators, trends, and triggers for passing
from one phase to the next.
53.   To this effect, the functions of project monitoring and evaluation will need to be properly
separated. Monitoring is essentially an internal management tool and will therefore be developed
and used by the executing agencies.  Evaluation on the other hand should be conducted
independently by external service providers.
54.   The monitoring system will be organized as a network with each executing agency in
charge of monitoring its own activities. The executing agencies will be connected to one another
and to the PCU which will maintain a consolidated system. As one of the divisions of the PCU,
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will be headed by a national M&E specialist, recruited under
contract by the PCU. The national expert will process and analyze the information submitted by



62
the different executing agencies and by the regional M&E specialists, and will prepare a
consolidated report. The expert will also prepare the VCSP progress reports.
55.   The national M&E specialist will be in charge of: (i) developing and exploiting a data
collection system appropriate to establish the performance indicators of each project component,
(ii) compiling and consolidating on a quarterly basis monitoring information including data related
to expenditure and disbursements; and (iii) preparing consolidated quarterly implementation
reports for the overall project.
56.   Progress reports will be submitted twice a year. Each executing agency will be required to
submit a biannual progress report for its component to the PCU no later than one month following
the end of each semester. The national M&E specialist will incorporate these individual reports
into a consolidated progress report for the entire project.
57.   Independent performance evaluations of the project will be conducted every two years.
During Phase I, these performance evaluations will focus on: (i) the assessment of the effect of
project activities on the beneficiaries with particular focus on vulnerable groups; and (ii) an
operational audit of the project. These two evaluations will be based on data provided by the
evaluation system as well as on surveys and interviews of beneficiaries and the different partners
participating in project implementation. These evaluations will highlight lessons leamed which
will be used to improve the efficiency of project implementation, to make adjustments to the
Operations' Manual, and to identify improvements for content and implementation procedures for
Phase II.
58.   The mid-term review and an evaluation at the end of the project will be conducted jointly
by the Government of Guinea and the co-financiers of the project. These reviews will be based in
part on the results and recommendations of the evaluations indicated above and will help make
adjustments resulting in a more efficient implementation of the project. The mid-term review will
also evaluate the pilot operations conducted by IFAD.



63
Annex 2A
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Organizational Chart: VCSP Management
Ministry of Interior and
Ministry of Plan and                 Decentralization              Ministry of Agriculture,
Cooperation                        (M)                         Water and Forests
(MPC)                                                            (MAEF)
Presdency
Members            |             Members
Other Ministries
Steering Committe  - Members            Civil Society
(CP)CD
Secretariat-
Managernent Cormittee
. .        National Directorate for          Na0ional Directorate for
National Coord          Decentralization & National Directorate
Committee               for Territorial Administration      .     Rural Engineeing
(UNC)                        (DND & DNAT)                       (DNGR)
....................     ...   .......   ............   ..........................   ........................ 
Regional Coordination Units
(URC)
,.......................... ........
Prefectures
ontracts w/ FIV                   _I
Rural Development                 [
Communities    .................. .. I   Sous-Prefectures
(CRD)
I_
Service
Providers
. Informaton Transfer
Institutional or Contractual Relation



Annex 3
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%         % Total
(GNF Million)                    (US$ '000)               Foreign       Base
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign       Total      Exchange       Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Work
1. Rural Road Maintenance&Rehab.            3156       4725    7881       2630       3938       6568            60           19
2. Office Rehabilitation                     219         328      547       183        274        456           60             1
Subtotal Civil Work                           3375       5053    8428       2813       4211       7024            60           20
B. Vehicles                                      -         797     797          -       665        665           I(0            2
C. Equipment & Goods                             -         885     885          -       738        738           10(            2
D. Village Investment Fund (VIF)              5809       3866    9675       4841       3221       8063            40           23
E. Innovation Fund                             424        282      706       353        235        588            40            2
F. Consulting Sernices and Studies               -       4519    4519           -      3766       3766           10()          11
G. Support to thelparticipation process       1817        453    2270       1514        378       1892            20            5
H. Training, Workshops, and Information       4891        1220    6111      4076        1017      5092            20           15
I. PPF refimancing                               -        1778    1778          -       1482      1482           1((            4
Total Investment Costs                        16316       18855   35171'   13597        15712      29309            54           85
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                   2614           -    2614      2178           -      2178              -           6
B. Vehicle Maintenance and Operation           342         513     855       285        427        713            60            2
C. OtherRecurrent Costs                       1893        1060    2953      1577        883       2461            36            7
TotalRecurrentCosts                            4849        1573    6422       4041       1311       5351            24           15
Total BASELINE COSTS                           21165       2(0427   41592    17638       17023     34660             49          100
Physical Contingencies                         761         875    1636       634        730       1364            53            4
Price Contingencies                           1919        1280    3200      1600       1067       2666            40            8
Total PROJECT COSTS                            23846       22583   46428    19871        18819      38690            49          112



Annex 3A
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$ '000)
Local Development Support                            Rehabilitation/
Improvement &      National &             Work-         &            Program
Enforcement      Deconcentra.  Support  shops    Maintenance    Management    Monitoring
Fiscal      Of Laws &         Capacity       to       &          Rural       Coordination        &            PPF
LIF   Decentral.    Regulations       Building      CRDs    Info        Roads            Unit        Evaluation   Rcfluaiicing   Total
L Investment C05t5
A. Civil Work
1. Rural Road Maintenance & Rehab          -         -  -                  -               -        -          7603.1       -                -             -            7603.1
2. Oftice Rehabilitation                   -         -  -                  -                -       -           531.8       -                -             -             531.8
Subtotal Civil WVork                       -         -  -                  -               -        -          8134.9       -                -             -            8134.9
B. Vehicles                                -         -  -                      243.1         86.6   -           197.1            153.3          46.0       -             726.2
C. Equipment & Goods                       -         -  -                       79.7        478.5   -            70.8            159.4           35.0      -             823.5
D. V illage Investment Fund (VIF)      9265.3                   -                       -      -    -              -                -                      -            9265.3
E. Innovation Fund                      685.4        -               -                         -    -              -                -             -        -             685.4        a'
F. Consulting Services and Studies         -  1234.1        258.8              188.6         12.8   -           608.9           1137.2          575.1      -            4015.5
G. Support to the participation process           -            -                  -         202-      43.8         -                              -        -            2063.8
H. Training, Workshops, and Information    -   363.9         165.8            1026.8       1722.9   538.5      1409.2               -           289.2      -            5516.3
1. PPF refinancing                         -      -            -                  -            -       -           -                -                         1482.0   1482.0
Total Investment Costs                    9950.7 1597.9        424.6             1538.3       4320.8   582.3    10421.0            1449.9         945.3          1482.0   32712.8
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                                -      -            -                67.5       1018.8      -           -             918.3          375.6             -     2380.2
B. Vehicle Maintenance and Operation       -      -            -               336.4           -       -         200.3           199.3           69.9             -      805.9
C. Other Recurrent Costs                   -   425.4           -                29.4        201.4      -         434.1          1486.1          215.1             -     2791.4
Toal Recurrent Cos0t                         _   425.4            -               433.3       1220.1               634.4           2603.7         660.6             -      5977.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                       9950.7 2023.4        424.6             1971.6       5540.9   582.3    11055.4            4053.5        1606.0          1482.0   38690.0
Taxes                                   497.5   39.5           8.3              89.8        246.9    29.1        518.9           140.1           51.0             -     1621.2
Foreign Exchange                       3939.2 1432.3         291.5             923.9       1376.4   115.1       6265.0          2174.6          818.9         1482.0   18119.0



66
Annex 4
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Economic Analysis
1.    The Village Communities Support Program (VCSP) seeks to strengthen local governance in
rural Guinea and promote social and economic empowerment of the rural population, including
vulnerable groups. Upon completion of the VCSP final phase, local communities and their
representative local governments will have developed the capability to identify, implement and
manage their own infrastructure and service needs. For an APL operation such as the VCSP,
detailed economic analysis is required for the first phase. Operations in the first phase of the VCSP,
however, are largely directed towards institutional strengthening and provision of basic
infrastructure via demand-driven community funds. They do not lend themselves to detailed ex-ante
cost-benefit and rate of return calculations. Instead, a qualitative analysis is required to discuss the
economic rationale for undertaking the operation and its benefits and costs.
I. Linkages to CAS and Macro/Sectoral Framework
2.    The proposed Village Support Program  (VCSP) is fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which focuses on three objectives:
(a)  promotion of a broad-based private sector led and equitable growth with a focus on
the rural sector;
(b)  enhanced service delivery for poverty reduction; and
(c)  improved governance and institutional capacity.
3.    Accordingly, the Village Support Program is included in all three scenarios (base case, low
case and high case) for Bank's support to Guinea during the CAS period (1998-2000). The VCSP
has also received adequate sectoral support in the Agricultural Development Strategy (LPDA2) and
is fully consistent with the Government's Decentralized Rural Development Policy Letter.
4.    In the first phase of the program, the targeting of basic services (potable water, health,
education) most needed by the poor will contribute to poverty alleviation, while the choice of labor-
intensive implementation and the use of local entrepreneurs in the provision of these services will
create employment and increase rural income. In turn, better access to health care, education, roads
and thus markets will raise productivity and increase market incentives. Thus, along with capacity
building to strengthen Government's ongoing efforts to achieve fiscal, administrative and political
decentralization, the first phase will pave the way for income-generating activities, which will be
the focus of the second and third phases of the program. VCSP/ VIF funds will be used mainly for
the provision of public goods and services which justifies the use of public funds to finance the
proposed Program. For income-generating and productive activities to be gradually introduced
during Phase II, targeting mechanisms towards the poorest segments of the population and
increased cost-recovery will be sought. IFAD and ADF will pilot adequate mechanisms and
eligibility criteria for those initiatives during Phase I.



67
5.  The macro-economic and sectoral pre-conditions are satisfactory for the program. Since mid-
1990, macro-economic management (foreign exchange, trade regime, and control of inflation) has
improved significantly and the government's commitment to poverty reduction is reflected in
efforts made towards prioritization of public expenditures through the institutionalization of a
Medium-Term Expenditures Framework (MTEF). Since the late 1980s, the Guinean government
has started to implement a policy of political decentralization and, to a still limited extent,
administrative deconcentration of public services.
6.   Over 1990-1995, Guinea has achieved an agricultural rate of growth of at least 4% a year
and tangible results are beginning to show in poverty reduction.  Although the minimum
framework exists for the program to be launched, it remains unsatisfactory to achieve the
impressive results expected from Guinea given its enormous potential. Most needed would be a
strategy that would help the Government move from a narrow and public sector dominated focus
on agriculture to a more decentralized and cross-sectoral approach to rural development. The
VCSP would give a strong emphasis to empowering local communities, local governments, and
other key stakeholders to enable them to play an increasing role in the identification, design,
implementation and management of rural development projects, and contribute more efficiently to
national economic growth.
1I. Analysis of Alternatives
7.  Four alternatives have been considered for the program. They were rejected as ineffective.
(    The traditional approach of integrated rural development keeps the responsibility for
planning and implementation essentially in the hands of central government. This
approach fails to generate community ownership, thus leading to inferior operation and
maintenance of investments. The coordination and top-down implementation of
multiple small-scale public infrastructure works is generally too complex and suffers
from a lack of adequate and timely information, poor incentives, and inadequate
resources. This approach has typically fallen short of expectations.
0    Another option consists of series of separate sub-sector national projects. Although,
this option could achieve some efficiencies in execution, it lacks the potential synergies
of an integrated community-based development.  It would be difficult to foster
ownership by communities since they would not be making the key decisions regarding
prioritizing micro-projects. Furthermore, such an approach would neither encourage
nor support the emergence of efficient and accountable local government.
0    The AGETIP-type approach relies on contractors to realize economies of scale in
executing standardized types of infrastructure. However, the very speed and efficiency
in realizing such infrastructure is particularly ill-suited for scattered rural infrastructure
investments in local communities. In addition, AGETIP does not foster local
empowerment and capacity building and, therefore, limits community ownership and
the long-term sustainability of investments.



68
O    Finally, the classic community-based project, of which IDA has now accumulated a series of
successful experiences was considered. Despite their success, these projects have suffered
from two major problems. Firstly, they have proved difficult to scale-up. Secondly, they
have not been sustainable because institutional changes (such as fiscal decentralization and
evolution of accountable local government structures) that improve the way government
operates have not been introduced. The VCSP builds upon these small-scale initiatives, but
offers a more systemic means of bringing about sustainable change on a large scale.
III. Fiscal Impact and Recovery
8.    The VCSP involves increased public spending and private benefits. It affects both the size
and structure of investments at the levels of central government, local government and direct
beneficiaries. The demand-driven and innovative nature of the program is not conducive to ex-ante
quantitative analysis of these impacts. The monitoring and evaluation, coupled with poverty
assessments and other studies, will provide data to shed light on these issues. Still, a qualitative
analysis can suggest, ex-ante, the positive direction of fiscal impact and cost recovery.
9.    Central Government: Through borrowing from IDA and IFAD, the central government
will increase the level of public spending on the provision of public goods (roads, education,
health) at the local level. On the other hand, cost recovery through tax collection is likely to be
limited in the short-term. The first phase will indeed target social services rather than income-
generating activities.  Tax income on inputs consumption for VIF investments and from
incremental economic activities will be small and the starting low-income level of poor rural
households precludes any short-term prospect for sufficient cost-recovery. In the second and third
phases, however, funding of income-generating activities are expected to raise incomes. Moreover,
in the long run, through increased productivity of better educated and healthier economic agents,
the contributive capacity of rural population to tax income will gradually increase and vastly
improve cost recovery.
10.   In comparison with alternative approaches, given similar levels of investment, the fiscal
impact of VCSP on central government will be highly positive. For the same benefits accruing to
beneficiaries, unit investment cost is likely to be lower because local participants will likely choose
the most cost-effective scheme. Also, for a given investment scheme, effective willingness of
beneficiaries to contribute will reduce central government's outlays. In comparison with alternative
approaches, the recurrent costs that would have been borne by central government will be paid for
at the local level. Overall, because of decentralization, efficiency of public expenditure will be
improved, which would help reduce the strains on the central budget and contribute to
sustainability.
11.   Overall, in the long run, economic benefits of VCSP will largely offset its initial small
negative impact on central government's budget.
12.   Local Governments: The VCSP will have a positive fiscal impact on the size of
CRDs' investments. Fiscal decentralization shifts more resources from the central government
to local governments. In addition, because of enhanced CRDs' credibility vis-a-vis the local
population, local governments will increase collection of local taxes, whose base is expected



69
to expand through funding of income-generating activities, particularly in the second and
third phases. However, because local governments are expected to balance their budgets,
transfers from central government and collection of local taxes will all be spent on public
goods at the local level. As with the central government, efficiency of public expenditure will
be improved at this level.
13.   Direct Beneficiaries: Given the demand-driven nature of the program, the financial
impact on beneficiary communities will be positive, particularly for the income-generating
investments of the second and third phases. In the first phase, the financial impact remains
positive, though quantitative estimates are difficult and some of the benefits will flow in the
long run. Better access to water and health will increase productivity and thus financial
rewards; better access to roads by improving market access will also boost financial inflows
to local beneficiaries. Labor-intensive implementation of basic infrastructure will also
increase income through additional employment. In the case of education and, to some
degree, or health service, the financial benefits will be realized in the long run.
14.   In the first phase, beneficiary communities will contribute, at least 20 percent (in kind
or/and cash) of total investment cost of basic infrastructure micro-projects. Such a
contribution is in line with, though somewhat higher than, current practices for construction
of basic rural infrastructure under ongoing traditional projects. It is high enough to provide
incentives for increased ownership and sustainability of micro-projects, while being
sufficiently modest to encourage participation by poor communities. The average investment
is expected to be less than US$15,000 to US$20,000. Beneficiaries would assume
responsibility for operation and maintenance of basic infrastructure funded under VIF, in line
with current policies and practices. Corresponding recurrent costs to the beneficiaries would
usually be modest, in the range of 5-10 percent annually of the micro-project investment cost.
15.   In the second phase, beneficiaries' contribution to income-generating investments will
be substantially higher than for basic infrastructure and may reach or exceed 50%. In
addition to assuming full responsibility for operation and maintenance of these activities, cost
recovery at community level would be sought to help promote sustainability, generation of
resources at the local level, and better accountability. The experience gained from pilot
activities to be conducted in the first phase of VCSP under separate IFAD-funded projects
would help to detennine the best means to apply these principles
IV. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
16.   To reiterate, the demand-driven and adaptable nature of this program does not lend
itself to quantitative economic analysis particularly in the first phase, which focuses on
provision of social services. Without a priori knowledge of the type, magnitude and exact
location of micro-projects, it is not possible to quantify both their costs and benefits to
conduct either a cost-benefit analysis or least-cost analysis. However, the economic rationale
of the project remains strong and it is possible to demonstrate that (a) the VCSP will generate
substantial economic benefits; and (b) compared with alternative approaches, the VCSP
improve cost-efficiency and sustainability. It is worth underlining that a highly participatory



70
process during preparation, including the implementation of pilots, has provided key field
information for a realistic design of the VCSP.
17.   Economic benefits. In the first phase, expected major economic benefits will flow
from the following: Maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads will increase access to
markets and social services, such as health and education care. Better access to markets will
generate economic benefits from market transactions, whereas access to social services
increases productivity, which in turn contribute to increase income. Improvement of access
roads will account for a major share of demand under VIF. Investment in education and
health care services contribute to poverty reduction in the short-term and, in the long-term, to
economic development in rural areas. Investment in safe drinking water, by improving the
health of rural population, as well as a reduction of the time spent, especially by women, in
transporting water will contribute to poverty alleviation and the productive capacity of rural
people, particularly women. The VCSP will also contribute to employment and income
generation in rural areas, both directly (through involvement of local artisans and village
workers in the construction of basic infrastructure funded under VIF) and indirectly (through
the new and/or additional economic opportunities generated by road improvement and
improved capacity for economic activity due to better health and water supply).
18.   Experience of investment funds under similar decentralized rural development
projects in Latin America and Asia has shown that communities generally choose investments
which can be expected to have a very high rate of returnt, such as water supply, rehabilitation
of roads and schools. In addition, the VIF Operational Manual will include simple eligibility
criteria for specific investments to ensure that they are economically justified (e.g. number of
people served by spot improvement of a village access road, distance from next water point
for construction of a well or borehole, etc.).
19.   Starting in the second phase of VCSP, productive activities to be funded under VIF
will make a direct contribution to revenue earnings, and hence poverty alleviation, in rural
areas.   This development will be deferred until the second phase of VCSP because
productive investments are more complex to implement than basic small scale infrastructure.
They have higher requirements for technical assistance and targeting mechanisms towards the
poorest segments of the population need to be developed.
20.   Cost-efticiency and sustainability. The design and set-up of VCSP will promote
enhanced cost-efficiency and sustainability. These efficiency gains will be derived mainly
from local community empowerment and decentralization. In particular, recent project
evaluations indicate that cost-sharing arrangements, along with active participation of
beneficiaries in micro-project selection and implementation bring the decision-making closer
to the beneficiaries. Such conditions not only create incentives for keeping investment costs
within reasonable boundaries and monitoring the quality of service delivery, but they also
increase substantially the likelihood of micro-project sustainability. The VCSP will also
promote cost-efficiency through contractual, rather than hierarchical, relationships of
beneficiaries both with administrative staff in charge of managing the VIF and with other
technical support agencies. The standardization of micro-projects documents, technical
designs and unit costs will simplify the preparation and evaluation of micro-projects under



71
VIF, facilitate procurement, provide a technical and financial reference for local communities
and reduce the over-design of micro-projects. Such standardizing encourages participation by
poorer communities and reduces bottlenecks in micro-project cycle
V. RISK ANALYSIS
21.   There are four chief risks that might jeopardize the achievement of the project's
objectives. The first would arise if the Government were to waver in its commitment to
promote effective decentralization. To mitigate the risk, project support will be provided for
the formulation and implementation of decentralization reforms. The second risk involves the
possibility of excessive interference and abuse of power by territorial administration officials.
Measures to reduce the risk include training and information activities, the establishment of a
grievance process, and the contracting of their services for additional tasks required by the
VCSP. The third risk pertains to possible fraud and lack of transparency in the management
of funds at the local level. Direct involvement of beneficiary communities in implementation
and funding of micro-projects, tight project controls on the use of funds, penalties for fraud,
and information campaign will greatly reduce this risk. Last, the VCSP needs to ensure an
equitable and representative decision-making process. To that effect, the program will use
participatory planning and animation techniques in order to include vulnerable groups in
decision-making processes. Moreover, all committees at the local level will be mandated to
include representation from vulnerable groups.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
22.   Institutional Capacity:  The program  is designed to fit the country's existing
implementation capabilities while simultaneously strengthening weaker ministries. Program
implementation responsibilities are shared between several ministries under the overall
coordination of the Ministry of Plan.
23.   The institutional arrangements for the program's implementation are considered to be
appropriate because the Ministry of Plan is very experienced in program management and has
strong leadership. The Ministry of Agriculture has also been working for years with the Bank
and is currently implementing two other Bank projects. The Ministry of Interior and
Decentralization currently has the weakest capacity. However, the component they will be
responsible for implementing also includes specific activities which are designed to
strengthen the implementation and managerial capacity of the ministry itself (training,
technical assistance, and equipment). Furthermore, during preparation, the Ministry of
Interior and Decentralization has shown ownership and eagerness to respond to CRDs' needs
by improving their managerial capacity.
24.   At the local level, CRDs and communities will be directly in charge of implementing
micro-projects. Major field activities proposed under the program have evolved from pilots
undertaken during preparation and/or donor financed projects. As such, they are tailored to
local implementation capacity.



72
25.   Institutional Constraints and Project Impact: Various assessments conducted by
national and international consultants have concluded that excessive centralization of
decision-making and resources undermines community and local government's ability to
manage their own affairs. Local development is also seriously hampered by inadequate fiscal
transfers and cumbersome procedures.
26.   The VCSP will begin to address the deficiencies of the current situation and, in
particular, Phase I will finance a number of activities geared towards strengthening the
decentralization process. This will include streamlining and harmonization of the legal and
regulatory framework, in particular, as it relates to the district, CRD, Sous-Prefecture and
Prefecture. The project will also review the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations and
the state of local budgets in order to formulate reforms to be implemented during Phase II.
The reforms will seek to broaden CRD's revenues by reviewing the tax base and formulating
a system of inter-governmental fiscal transfers. The system of transfers will take into account
inequities between regions and between CRDs. Last, the program will implement a number
of activities and mechanisms to make local governments more representative and accountable
to their constituency.
VII. POVERTY ANALYSIS
27.   Poverty in Guinea remains an overwhelmingly rural phenomenon. Poverty rates are
estimated at over 52% in rural areas against 25% in urban areas. The Village Support
Program will be implemented exclusively in rural areas, with a main focus on basic
infrastructure of collective interest. It will thus have a significant impact on poverty.
28.   The economic benefits derived from the VCSP will reach all segments of the rural
population including the poorest. Although the VCSP does not attempt to specifically target
the most disadvantaged or vulnerable groups, targeting to the rural poor will be achieved
indirectly through: (a) the kinds of projects financed under VIF (e.g., small, inexpensive
projects for improvement of village roads, water supply, school classrooms);
(b) participatory processes at community level designed to ensure that the views and priorities
of all segments of the rural population are represented in the selection of investments to be
funded under VIF; and (c) the choice of labor intensive methods for micro-project
implementation that will result in employment generation for the poor. The M&E system
will place due emphasis on assessing vulnerable groups' satisfaction with project impact.
Vulnerable groups, including women's groups, are to be specifically targeted within the pilot
productive micro-project component.
29.   These initiatives, combined with better provision of services and increased ease of
marketing agricultural surpluses, through improved accessibility, will have a direct impact on
poverty reduction.



73
VIII. ENVIRONMENTAL IMEPACT
30.   The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category B and an
Environmental Management Plan has been prepared which provides support for a series of
practical actions to address potential environmental issues. The small-scale community
infrastructures to be constructed under the program have limited negative environmental
impacts. To mitigate, potentially adverse environmental impacts, ADCs will be trained in
environmental management through on-the-job training programs. They will help the CRDs
in environmental screening of micro-projects and integrating required mitigation measures
into micro-project design. With regards to the rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance
component, an Environmental Mitigation Unit (EMU) will be established within DNGR to
monitor environmental effects of project activities, propose and implement appropriate
mitigation plans. The EMU will provide its support to all micro-projects constructed under
the project.
Monitoring of Development Impact
31.   Detailed performance indicators related to the overall social and institutional capacity
development impact of VCSP are discussed in this project appraisal document and in the
program logical framework.
Overall Assessment of the Project
32.   Overall, the VCSP is a sound instrument to meet the stated objectives of the Country
Assistance Strategy. Strengthening the capacity of village communities, home to the bulk of
the Guinean population, is a highly efficiency avenue to achieve broad-based poverty
reduction and growth. While not quantifiable ex-ante, the economic, social, and institutional
benefits for this operation are considerable; making the VCSP a fully justifiable and
worthwhile undertaking.



Annex 4A1
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Anticipated Socio-Economic Effects of the Project by Component
Project components      Activities        Key Beneficiaries      Short & Medium Run               Long run
Rural Roads       Rehabilitation and spot  Rural communities,   Facilitate access to local  Same
improvement           farmers, merchants   markets, health centers, schools  Same
Maintenance           Environment         and other joint services     Same
Reduce time and cost of
transportation of people and
goods
Improve urban-rural linkages
Improve environmental
conditions following
rehabilitation                                           -
Stimulate other agricultural
activities
Village Investment  Village access roads  Rural communities.  Facilitate access to local  Same
Fund              Schools                farmers, merchants   markets                     Same
Health centers        Children and women  Reduce time and cost of
Drinking Water and                        transportation of people and  Increase income generation
sanitary facilities                       goods                        capacity
Increase primary school      Increase income generation
enrollment                   capacity
Improve health status       Same
Save time and effort to be used   Increase income generation
for income generation        capacity
Stimulate other rural activities



Annex 4A2
Evolution of Subproject Financing
Phase I                 Phase II                Phase III
Village Investment Fund                85%                   40%-80%                 20%-60%
CRDs' Contribution2                    5%                    20%-50%                 20%-60%
Beneficiaries Contribution             15%                   10%-30%                 20%-50%
-J
A system of tasfer will progressively replace tihe program fund.
2 (CRDs' revenues come from local taxes and transfers).



76
Annex 5
Guinea - Village Communities Support Program
Financial Summary
Year Ending December 31 (US$m)
Initiation Period          Operational Period
VCSP              VCSP II           VCSP III
(1999-2002)        (2003-2006)        (2007-2010)
Project Costs
Investment Costs                32.7                58.8              73.9
Recurrent Costs                  6.0                11.2              14.1
Total                           38.7                70.0              88.0
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA                        22.0                35.0               42
IFAD                             7.0
AFD                              3.8
ADF                              1.9
Government                       4.0
Total                           38.7                 70                88
Main assumptions:
(i)    Cofinancing amounts for VCSP I are based on best estimates - to be confirmed
in first quarter 1999 when other participating donors complete processing of
their parallel financed components of the program.
(ii)   The amount to be financed in VCSP II and III are indicative and will be
finalized based on the experience of the preceding phase and when
commitments from cofinanciers are confirmed.



77
Annex 6
Guinea - Village Communities Support Program
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
1.    The project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table A.
2.    All IDA and IFAD financed civil works, equipment and materials will be procured
in compliance with IDA procurement Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits published by the World Bank in January 1995 and revised January and
August 1996 and September 1997. Procurement of consultant services and technical
assistance will follow Bank's Guidelines for the selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers published by the world Bank in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997. IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for all procurements
under International Competitive Bidding. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and
estimated schedule of major procurement is presented in Appendix 1.
3.    Civil Works. Procurement arrangements for civil works (rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural roads) based on National Competitive Bidding will amount to
US$4.2 million equivalent. Civil works contracts not exceeding US$500,000 are not likely
to attract foreign contractors, thus International Competitive Bidding will not be
applicable. Contracts for civil works will be administered (Maitrise d'Ouivrage) by a
government agency, the Direction Nationale du Genie Rural. Small works for rural road
maintenance and spot improvement estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$3.3 million, will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors invited to bid. The award will be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates he has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.    Contracts for Goods. Equipment, materials, vehicles, motorcycles, computers,
and furniture will be grouped to the extent possible into bid packages of at least
US$100,000 equivalent. Those exceeding US$100,000 will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB), using World Bank standard bidding documents
for procurement of goods (published in January 1995 revised in January and August 1996,
and September 1997). Contracts for office equipment, vehicles and materials locally
available which are costing less than US$100,000 equivalent but greater than US$30,000
equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$0.6 million will be procured through NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Small quantities of goods such as office supplies,
consumable materials and spare parts, which are normally available off-the shelf at
competitive prices and which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000, will
be procured through prudent national shopping, based on price quotation obtained from at
least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$0,2



78
million over the four first years of the project. As the case may be, such goods may be
procured from UN agencies (UNIPAC or IAPSO).
5.    The Local Investment Fund (LIF) will use a matching-grant mechanism for
transferring resources to rural development communities (CDRs: Communautes rurales de
Developpement). The use of the matching-grant will be based on the Operations' Manual
to be acceptable to IDA at all times and will be directly managed by the concerned CRDs
and not by the public services. The program will assist eligible communities in the form
of grants payable in tranches as described in the PIM under contractual arrangements
between the community and the Ministry of Plan. In choosing this approach, the National
Coordination Unit will evaluate the organizational capacity of the beneficiaries, and will
assess the cases where assistance by an NGO and/or small services providers is required to
handle the construction of micro-projects on behalf of communities.
6.    Consultant Services. Consultant services financed by IDA will normnally be
selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will
be based on Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the
proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. For audits of a standard
nature, the Least-Cost Selection will be the most appropriate method -- the firm with the
lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark.
Services for small studies and seminars which can be delivered by Individual
Consultants will be selected through comparisons of qualifications among those
expressing interest in the assignment or through direct approach on the basis of work
programs and terms of reference whenever possible in a competitive way from a short list
of candidates drawn from a roster of individual consultants. Training and advisory services
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 will be contracted using Selection Based on
Consultants' Qualifications. Local community support services, such as technical
assistance and training, may be procured through Single Source Selection, provided the
contractor has demonstrated experience and comparative advantage to carry out the tasks.
7.    Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of
national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at
competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts,
they will not be excluded from consideration.  The standard request for proposals
developed by IDA will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will
be used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by
firms or individual consultants.
8.    IDA Reviews. Prior Bank review will be required for all goods and works contract
value at more than US$100,000 and US$100,000 respectively. Prior Bank review will also
be required for consultant services contracts value at more than US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals. The prior review process will cover about 47 % of the total
value of the amount contracted for goods. Contracting of civil works will follow NCB
procedures. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will
apply to about one in three contracts. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be



79
reviewed and agreed upon with IDA. Bank's staff will also review the selection process for
the hiring of consultant proposed by the Borrower. Prior IDA review may include budgets,
short-lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, and negotiated
contracts. The exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of
such contracts, regardless of their value, to single source hiring, to assignment of a critical
nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value
above the above-mentioned prior thresholds. Documents related to procurement below the
prior review thresholds will be maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by auditors
and by IDA supervision missions.
9.    Capacity Assessment, and Proposed Management Arrangements. National
Bidding Procedures for public sector procurement in Guinea have recently improved.
Practices were slow under the previous IDA - financed projects. A revised procurement
code was issued in June 1997. The introduction of simplified procedures and training of
staff supported under an IDF Grant has improved the current situation. Assurances have
been provided at negotiations that, during annual reviews, an assessment of the
effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance will be carried out as they relate to
the program's procurement experience. Procurement will be handled by executing
agencies that have already gained experience under previous IDA financed operations in
Guinea. An evaluation of the capacity of the newly recruited procurement management
staff will be carried out before credit effectiveness to assess any need for training or
recruitment of ad-hoc external services.
10.   During negotiations: The Government submitted a draft procurement plan for the
first program year and provided assurances that standard bidding documents to be used
under NCB procedures for civil works and goods will be submitted for IDA's approval.
During negotiations, an agreement was also reached on the proper monitoring of
procurement. The Government gave assurance that it will: (a) use IDA's Standard
Bidding Documents for ICB and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (c) apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the above documents; and (d)
review the procurement plan and procurement arrangements each year at the annual review
with IDA and other donors.  During implementation, all bidding documents, bid
evaluation reports, and draft contracts transmitted to IDA for review will contain an
updated copy of the procurement plan. Procurement information will be collected and
recorded as follows:
(a) prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and
(b) annual reports to IDA by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances
for contingencies; (ii) revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including
experience with completion time and completion costs for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.



80
11.   The government gave assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary
measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time
periods:
Procurement Phases                     Maximum Number of Weeks
* Preparation of bidding documents     4 (12 for large contracts)
* Preparation of bids by bidders       4 (6-10 for ICB)
* Bid evaluation                       2 (4 for large contracts)
* Signature of contracts               2
* Payments                             4
Disbursement
12.   The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be
disbursed over a period of four years (from 1999 to 2003), with a closing date of June 30,
2004. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Table D. All applications to
withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for contracts not
subject to prior review by IDA. For the rest, disbursements will be made against
statements of expenditure (SOEs) certified by the head of each executing agency.
Supporting documentation will be retained by the executing agencies and will be available
for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and program  auditors.  The
accountant of the Project Coordination Unit, under the guidance of its Administrative and
Financial Director, will provide technical assistance and monitoring of each executing
agency's project accounts on a monthly basis.
13.   To expedite disbursements and ensure that project funds will be available when
needed, the Government will open one Special Account for each executing agency (total of
3 Special accounts) in a commercial bank, acceptable to IDA. The authorized balance of
special account A under the Ministry of Plan, Special Account B under the Ministry of
Interior and decentralization and Special Account C under the Ministry of Agriculture will
be US$500,000, US$300,000 and US$300,000 respectively, representing IDA's
anticipated share of eligible expenditures for 4 months. Replenishments of Special
Accounts will be made on the basis of monthly applications supported by full
documentation of SOEs as required and verified by the PCU's Administrative and
Financial Director.
14.   The Government will open in a financial institution, a Project Account to cover its
counterpart contribution to the project, to be used exclusively to meet expenditures under
the program. The Borrower will deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of
US$300,000 equivalent in Guinean Francs. The establishment of this account with an



81
initial deposit of US$300,000equivalent in Guinean Francs will be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness.
15.   Consolidated project accounts will be established and maintained by each of the
executing agencies, which have developed the required experience under on-going and/or
previous operations. As soon as possible after the end of the financial year, but no longer
than six months after its completion, the Government will present audits reports of the
special accounts and the projects accounts and the project accounts with a special opinion
on the use of the special accounts and the SOEs. The audit reports will furnish as part of
the management letter an opinion on the use of, and procurement methods for IDA-
financed operating costs. The government's performance in auditing projects accounts has
generally been acceptable and the government is in full compliance on other projects, and
the quality of the audits has also been satisfactory. The contracting of auditors, on multi-
years contract, acceptable to IDA, and a certification by auditors that each project entity's
accounting system is operational, is a condition of Credit Effectiveness.



82
Annex 6A
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for the First Four Years of the Program
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties, and contingencies)
Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB          Other     N.B.F
1. Works
1.1 Rehabilitation and maintenance  -             4.2         3.3        0.10      7.6
of rural roads                                   (2.7)       (2.2)                (4.9)
1.2 Rehabilitation of Office Space                            0.5        -         0.5
(0.3)               (0.3)
2. Goods
2.1. Vehicles                        0.7                                 -         0.7
(0.5)                                         (0.5)
2.2. Equipment and materials         -            0.6         0.2        -         0.8
(0.4)       (0.1)                (0.5)
3. Services
3.1. Consultants                     -            -           4.5        0.3       4.8
(2.9)                (2.9)
3.2. Training                        -            -           4.9        2.2       7.1
(3.2)                (3.2)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1. Incremental operating costs     -            -           5.8        0.1       5.9
(3.8)                (3.8)
4.2 Matching funds (1)               -            -           6.7        3.1       9.8
(4.4)                (4.4)
4.3 PPF Refmancing                   -            -           1.5        -         1.5
(1.5)                (1.5)
Total Costs                          0.7          4.8        27.4        5.8      38.7
Total Costs Financed by IDA (2)     (0.5)        (3.1)      (18.4)               (22.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; Other procedures for
equipment includes Limited International Bidding and Local Shopping
Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
(1) Matching Funds: to match small civil works contracts, small equipment and materials, and services
for village-based micro projects
(2) IFAD financing done on pari-passu basis. IFAD contributes to 25%, or about US $ 7 million



83
Annex 6B
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure   Contract Value            Procurement Methods        Contracts Subject to
Category    (Threshold)                                           Prior IDA Review
1.. W.orks .---       F- : .-:F.:_ICB    _NCB   Other             ..              =..      ...
above US$500,000          N/A                        N/A
above US$100,000                   X                 Prior review. Aggregate amount:
US$ 1,200,000
below US$100,000                   x
above US$50,000
below US$50,000                           X
D   -Goods  :--             -   : ::_                                        _   _  _   _  _:
above US$100,000          X                          Prior review. Aggregate amount:
.________________________            _________  U S$   700,000
below US$100,000                   X      -
above US$30,000
below US$100,000                          IAPSO or
UNIPAC
below US$30,000            -              x
below US$5,000 direct                     X
purchase from manufacturers
or authorized dealers
3. Seri                                 Selection Methods                              ......
All terins of reference or sole source contracts are subject to IDA prior review
Audit        N/A                        Least Cost Selection      Prior review. Aggregate amount:
US$ 200,000
Firms        Above US$ 100,000          Quality and Cost Based    Prior review + Review of
Selection (QCBS)          Technical Evaluation Report before
opening financial proposal.
Aggregate amount: US$ 2,000,000
Above US$100,000 Below    Least Cost Selection (LCQ)   Prior review + (i) Notification of
US$200,000                                           Technical Evaluation scores, (ii)
combined Evaluation Report.
Aggregate amount: US$ 3,000,000
Below US$100,000           Consultants' Qualifications
(C)_
Individuals   Above US$50,000           Section V of Consultants   Prior review. Aggregate amount:
Guidelines                US$ 1,000,000
Below US$50,000
N/A                        Single Source Selection   Prior review. Aggregate amount:
US$ 800,000
G~~~i  ttal.i~~~~~~~4.ct.t.~~~~~~r    I                  ...~~~~~....R$.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I              ..'... ..
lThe value share of the contracts subject to prior review with respect to total project cost is relatively lower
than 80% which is usually expected for most operations because of a large number of small contracts
spread geographically in remote areas to be generated under this project.



84
Annex 6C
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                             Amount in        Amounts in    Financing
US $ million          SDR          Percentage
1. Civil Works                                      4.20              3.00         70%
2. Equipment, vehicles, and materials               1.20              0.90         75% of
foreign
expenditures
and 70% of
local
expenditures
3. Consultant's services                            6.00              4.20         75%
4.   Grants for micro-projects                      3.20              2.30         75% of
amounts
disbursed
5.  Operating Costs I/                              3.80              2.70         70%
6. Refunding of the Project Preparation             1.50              1.10
Advance
7. Unallocated                                      2.10              1.50
Total IDA credit                                   22.00              15.70
1/     Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of program implementation,
management and supervision, including office supplies, office equipment and vehicles operation and
maintenance, contractual services and travel and allowances including those for trainers and trainees, but
excluding salaries of officials of the borrower' s civil service.



85
Annex 6D
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ million)
IDA            1999   2000   2001    2002    2003
Fiscal Year
Annual        2.00   5.00    5.00    7.00    3.00
Cumulative    2.00   7.00   12.00   19.00   22.00
Cumulative     9%    32%    56%       89%    100%



86
Annex 7
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. ProjectBudget (US0200,000)                         Planned                 ActualS ,
(US$200 P000)          (US$200t000)u
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)            8 months               8 months
First Bank mission (identification)                    10/98                   10/98
Appraisal mission departure                            06/98                   06/98
Negotiations                                           10/98                   11/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                          08/99
Prepared by: Ministry of Plan and Cooperation
Preparation assistance: PPF (US$1.482,000) and Japanese PHRD (US$400,000) 
Ba)tik staff wvho iworkedl on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Bachir S,ouhlal                               Team Leader
Mohanunted Bekhechi                           Senior Counscl
Mati:tit Gbetibouo                           Agricultural Economist
Alexandra Goffin                               COSTAB Specialist
Susanno Holste                                Infrastructure Specialist
T. Mpov-Kamulayi                              Senior Counsel
Sylvie Marzin                                 Country Portfolio Manager (IFAD)
Suzanne Piriou-Sall                           RD/Decentralization Specialist
Robert Robelus                                Environmental Specialist
Guillemette Rohan                             Task Team Assistant
Josef Toledano                                Agricultural Services Specialist
Lucie Tran                                    COSTAB Specialist
David Webber                                  Senior Financial Management Specialist and
Disbursement Officer for Guinea



87
Annex 8
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Financial Management
1.    PACV will establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which
will provide PACV and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and
expenditures. The financial management systems will include accounting, financial
reporting and auditing elements.
Accounting
2.    The PACV will operate on a decentralized basis with four components (a) the
Local Investment Fund (LIF); (b) Support for Local Development; (c) Rural Roads; and
(d) Program Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. The three operational components
will be managed by separate project implementation units set up in separate ministries -
for instance, the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation will manage the Local Investment
Fund; the Ministry of Interior and Decentralization will manage the Support for Local
Development component; and, the Ministry of Agriculture will manage the Rural Roads
component.
3.   IDA has had experience with decentralized projects in Guinea with the current
agricultural projects. The experience is that, overall, the accounting is adequate for the
projects' and IDA's purposes, however, there is a need to have close monitoring to
maintain controls and to build financial capacity. T his experience is taken into
consideration in the PACV project.
4.    Detailed procedures have been developed for project accounting for eaci
component. The objective of the detailed procedures is to ensure consistent financial
reporting. The underlying systems take into account the specific needs and circumstances
for each component including accounting procedures at the Regional and CRD level.
5.   Internal accounting controls for the project are set out in detail in the financial
procedures of the Project Implementation Manual and are satisfactory for providing
reasonable assurances that accounts are properly recorded and resources safeguarded.
6.    The accounting systems for the implementation units for the components will
computerized using the TOMPRO software. TOMPRO is used in several other IDA
financed projects in French-speaking West Africa and has been found to be satisfactory for
Borrower and IDA purposes. The version of TOMPRO to be used is the latest version
which is Y2K compliant.
7.    The chart of accounts for the project is based on the Plan Comptable National of
the Republic of Guinea with supplementary accounts to allow reporting to the
requirements of each of the Donors.



88
Financial Reporting
8.    The CRD's (the base accounting unit) will provide quarterly activity reports to the
Regions together with quarterly financial reports of the activity of the LIF.
9.    The Regions will submit quarterly financial reports with supporting documentation
to the PCU.
10.   The PCU will consolidate the financial reports of the operational components.
11.   The annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles in Guinea and with FARAH, which has been
accepted by IDA for projects in Guinea. The financial statements will include at least a
statement of sources and uses of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the special
accounts, a balance sheet and required notes to the financial statements.
12.   The financial statements will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year.
Auditing
13.   The financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA. The selection of the auditor is a condition of effectiveness.
The auditor will provide an opinion on:
ta) the project financial statements
(b) statement of expenditures
(c) special accounts
A management report on Internal Controls outlining any recommendations for improving
internal accounting controls identified as a result of the financial statement audit.
Stafring
14.   A  Finance and Administration Manager will be appointed in the PCU  in
accordance with detailed terms of reference that have been developed.
15.   An accountant will be appointed to the PCU to keep the detailed accounting
records
Project Management Reports
16.   The Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in Bank group
projects, the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative assists projects



89
to put in place sound financial management, procurement and output monitoring systems.
Where appropriate, if these systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis
of agreed quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of
individual invoices or statements of expenditure.
17.   Appraisal for the PACV was before July 1, 1998, the date set by the Board for the
implementation of LACI, therefore the process does not apply to the project. The LACI
concepts have, however, been taken into consideration in project preparation.
18.   An assessment has been made that the PMR procedures will not be appropriate for
PACV initially. There is a need to ensure that the systems put in place are operating
smoothly. The monitoring and evaluation process will include output monitoring reports
which are consistent with the PMR requirements.
19.   The financial, procurement and output monitoring systems will be reviewed as part
of the mid-term review at the end of the second year to assess whether it will be
appropriate to move to PMR disbursements at that time.



90
Annex 9
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Project File
Table of Contents
o  - Rapport de Mission. Volet C Infrastructure de base et pistes rurales. (May 1997)
o  - Etude relative a la mise en oeuvre d'un systeme de gestion de l'entretien des Pistes
rurales (July 1997)
o  - Participation des beneficiaires a l'elaboration d'une strategie d'assistance a la Guin6e
(October 1997)
o  - Decentralisation et developpement rural (September 1997)
o  - Review of Local Finances and Self-Financing Capacity of CRDs (January 1998)
o  - Fonds d'investissement villageois: Perspectives de statutjuridique (February 1998)
o    D6veloppement villageois et decentralisation: Problemes juridiques (February 1998)
o  - Appui en fiscalite locale (April 1998)
Q  - Monitoring, Evaluation and Management Information System (May 1998)
o  - Community Organization Structures and Participatory Processes (May 1998)
a    Profil socio-economique et etude sur la participation et la prise de decision dans les
projets
communautaires dans trois regions naturelles de Guinee (May 1998)
o  - Appui Institutionnel: Formation (May 1998)
o  - Fiches et modeles economiques de microprojets (May 1998)
o  - Experiences de microprojets, politiques sectorielles et implications pour le PACV
(May 1998)
o  - Role of NGOs (May 1998)
o  - Economic and Financial Analysis (May 1998)
o  - Rapport de diagnostic participatif pour les CRD pilotes (June 1998)
o  - Guide d'animation villageoise pour les CRD-pilotes (June 1998)
o  - Evaluation environnementale et plan de gestion environmental (June 1998)
o  - IFAD Pilot Program for Productive Micro-projects (June 1998)
o  - Composante C: Cartes des CRD et des infrastructures existantes (June 1998)
o  - Projet de politique de developpement rural a la base (July 1998)
o  - Appui au processus de decentralisation (August 1998)
o  - Rapport d'evaluation (September 1998)
o  - Program Implementation Plan (November 1998)
o  - Detailed Cost Tables (December 1998)
o  - Letter of Decentralized Rural Development Policy (January 1999)



l l
Annex 10
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Loan or      Fiscal                                                        Original Amount in USS Millions          Difference Between      Last ARPP
expected           Supervision
and actual           Rating b/
disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit No.    Year       Borrower              Purpose           IBRD      IDA      Cancellations    Undisbursed   Original  Revised   Dev Obj. ImpProg
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 43
Active Loans
GN-PE-1059      IDA 21120    1990    Govt Of Guinea   Second Urban                0.00      57.00        0.00            4.08         .60      0.00        S          S
GN-PE-1043      IDA24160    1993    GovemmentOf    Powerl                         0.00      50.00        0.00            5.00        3.65      3.65        U          U
Guinea
GN-PE-1068      IDA 24070    1993    Govt Of Guinea    Agr.Export Promotion       0.00     20.80         0.00            12.07        8.43     0.00        S          S
GN-PE-1070      IDA 25740    1994    Govemment         Health/Nut.Sctr.           0.00     24.60         0.00            14.70        3.00     2.70        S          S
GN-PE-1087      IDA 27190    1995    Govemment         Equity And School Im       0.00      42.50        0.00            28.53       12.60     0.00        HS         S
GN-PE-1078      IDA 26530    1995    Govemment         Financial Sector           0.00      23.00        0.00            1.56         1.02      0.00       S          S
GN-PE-1077      IDA 28740    1996    Government        Min Sect nv Promot         0.00      12.20        0.00            7.74         3.19      0.00       S          S
GN-PE-1081      IDA 28390    1996   Government         Agric Services             0.00      35.00        0.00            22.57        .98       0.00       S          S
GN-PE-1090      IDA 27870    1996   Govenmment         Higher Education Man       0.00      6.60          0.00           4.82         2.99      2.28       U          U
GN-PE-1075      IDA N0170    1997   Government         Third Water Supply         0.00      25.00         0.00           23.98        .79       0.00       S          S
GN-PE-49690    IDA 30210    1998    Government         Pub.Exp.Mng.Adj.Crd        0.00      70.00         0.00           24.40        3.09      0.00       S          S
Total                                                                             0.00     366.70         0.00          149.45       40.34      8.63
Active Loans         Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):          211.85               810.18             1,022.03
of which has been repaid:             0.00                 92.03               92.03
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:          366.70               671.82             1,038.52
Amount sold         :                    0.00                  0.00                0.00
Of which repaid    :0.00                                      0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed           :           149.45                 .14                149.59
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satislactory, U  unsatisfactory, flU  highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



92
Annex 11
Guinea: Village Communities Support Program
Country at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Guinea     Africa   income       Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                         6.9       614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     570        SOO       350
GNP (Atlas method., USS billions)                       4.0       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                          2.6       2.7       2.1
Labor force (%)                                         2.3       2.6        2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199147)                                 capta             I           enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povety line)
Urban population (% or totalpopulation)                 31         32        28                       I
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        46         52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               120         90        78
Child malnutrition (% of chiadren under S)              24                   61               Access to safe water
Access to safe vwater (% ot population)                 62         44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    64         43        47
Groas primary enrollment (% oschool-age population)     48         75        91                   Guinea
Male                                                  63         82       100                  Low-income group
Female                                                34         67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic rattios
GDP (US$ blDions)                               ..      1.9       4.0       3.9
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                           14.9      21.1      21.7                      Trd
ExportsofgoodsandservIces/GDP                          31.1      17.1       17.7                     rae
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             18.0      18.0       18.7
Gross national savings/GDP                              8.4      13.4       13.7
Current account balance/GDP                            -6 .6     -7.7       -7       Domestic                     n
Interest payments/GDP                                   0.7       2.1       2.1                                  Investment
Tolaldebt/GDP                                          91.7      80.6      79.9      Savings
Total debt service/exports                             11.9      17.2       15.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                        54.3
Present value of debVexports                                    284.1
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97      1996      1997   1998-02
(average annualgrowfth)
GDP                                           4.0       4.6       4.5        5.6                   Guinea
GNP per capita                                 1.8      1.6       1.1        2.6              -- Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 2.8      -1.8      -2.3       4.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                              ____
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(X of GDP)
Agrculture                                             23.9      21.8       22.4     20
Industry                                               34.6      33.1      35.1     o0
Manufacturing                                                    4.9       4.3
Services                                               41.5      45.1      42.5       0
92   93    4 9               7
Private consumption                                    70.6      74.9      74.3    -¶0
General government consumption                         11.4       7.1        7.0                    GDi    - O  GDP
lmports of goods and services                          28.1      20.2      20.8
(average annual growth)                   197646  1987-97        1996      1997      Growth rates of exportsand imports (%)
AgrouRture                                              7.9       4.5       5.1    20
Industry                                                1.9       9.0       4.3
Manufactunng                                   ..     1.8        2.5       4.5    lx
Services                                                3.1       2.2       3.8
Private consumption                             .       3.8       5 9       6.8      o
General govemment consumption                           2.5      -5.2       -1.9
Gross domestic investmeni                       ,,      5,5       3.5        2.6    10
Imports of goods and servioess                          1.1      -1.9       3.1                   Exports    110lmports
Gross national product                                  4.8       4.5        4.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicator In the country On bold) compared wIh its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



93
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       30        32      2
Implicit GDP deflator                           .        ..       3.0       3.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               I x.
Current revenue                                 ..    13.4       10.1      11.5            92   93   94    95   96   97
Current budget balance                          .       0.1       1.3       2.7                   GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         .      -9.8      -8.9      -8.7      -_D_  _ e__ator                       _
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976     1986       1996     1997   | Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    590         696      797   |1000
Other metals                                  ..    381         324       342
Aluminum                                               73       104       113   1 750.
Manufactures..                                          .         ..I
Total imports (cit                                     422        714       779      50 
Food7                                                            76        7       25
Fuel and energy                                       5           7        9 
Capaitagoods                                  ..       50        78        83        0 
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..    106          93        93
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      70         97        96                E Exports     * mports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                          .      152         96        97     _
B3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                          598        746      821  °0
Imports cf goods and services                  ..      540        866      926
Resource balance                                ..      58       -120     -105
Net income                                      .     -13         14       -159
Net current transfers                           ..     -32        -36      -37
Current account balance                         ..   -126        -305     -301
Financing items (net)                            .     200        254      324
Changes in net reserves                         0      -74         51      -24    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          0        0        170      225
Conversion rate (DEC, locaY/US$)             21.4    346.0    1,004.0   1,096.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          824    1,764      3,196     3,120
IBRD                                         66       61         0         0
IDA                                           1      160       863       922
Total debt service                             38       72        131       125                                   :922
IBRD                                          8       12         0         0
IDA                                           0        2         11       10
Composition of net resource flowsv
Official grants                               2       42        122      129
Official creditors                           29      148        122      227         E: 1,244                     C 108
Private creditors                            12        1          0        9
Foreign direct investment                     0        8         40       43
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0       50         54       95      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 1       36         47      109      B- IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          2        8          4         4     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    -1       28         43       105
Interest payments                             6        6          7        6
Net transfers                                -7       22         36        99
Development Economics                                                                                                 10/1/98



lBRD 29659
1'4                                                     12                                                        1                          GUNE
14'    5 ENEGAL   12t  [t                         VILLAGE SUPPORT PROGRAM
51 ' ' 'b  ,PROGRAMME D'APPUI AUX COMMUNAUTES VILLAGEOISES
GUINEA-                    .            K     CoCA' r                                         F                                                              N
L g A C A   ((  °   t R  p u U     ,    >\                                                                                         N o o s I
12             BISSAU                  N                                         '-  o                     '>                           /                         O
,i  ,y    NCFAO                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12'
H R OKolCmb AR., ,7  't82'°% AN½T0   AF.o       /I 7 isi                                                     7C ) '  L oMol-    ; ~ - -    o    |            M       A       L    I
/ < ; , ~ ~      ~     ~   I .C        C in u t              a     'o' .                0 A A S AA0                             / .o                     , 7 /.............  ' -            
, NI  +°-.~   TC>yaA A79 -                      77\' 'h+'  D                                                            ' s o
C  E A  N   C L     D       N ~ ~ ~~~~~Z~7o )                                     ,,/ 5     Col&  *C  ~<uin CANUCCAY   Alvd                Nkom.ckdo                ANNU,_
lo, ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~   '  d      (F U 0               K'      'L      TE         '       0 A~   T'     9           "'     '                       -<     r    (  '-    -  e  ,     ,        C    T
NAO  hto   -                                                              '7 'S -= jKsueoloo-ulo                        ;}s   Airaor         |      -F
THE - -  F3 pA    L                    I -mNC/UE !n'-IF-F   ,o u           lem e ; °S .ro. ~ 7,c-   -  k                                                                       .. 
K                A      %.t'3A        >KCg~A    '                             *            ~                    0ATON                                              ALC    APA   sf st  r-s
M M k 7 -  U 3 E R IAc ,_KC #\>                           .       _ _                                                                       K F AbFEC TD R  -8E E T R SL I B E R I Ai 2 t - O l D ,   .t i  o d n l i p   n h  t o
/    y   }  C   '\~ ~   ~   B O  O N     0C,      _<         _ A _    - NT R AT O A  BOUN ARIE                                             '/ o                  /                              n s eI g lso s  fo y lr   ,
S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~A IKBi                                                                                               MO0'               (AI 8=N) oudre
7       /                                                            cAq, OTOC-ICT
7-N                                        0              7~~~                                          ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )   ' '                                  '
'CEAN~       ~~~~~~    ~~~~~                              -k-AK     C                                                                         D2    Cs  NA' AhA ~C" \-
N. ~ ~          ~              ~             ~             ~            ~                     -
I C   ~ ~    ~     kht Cx0,/SE R                                                                                                         >'    OAC 
I.A.-Tj~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~AM~I                                                                                      ANO~
L___________LEONE                                                                                                           Ac "AbO~C                                         o 
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                     '  c4        ?RM4a-  - .'                                 0
__________________________________ ~~~~~~~NMPILOT PROJECTS                                                                        -b CSA,LRCA>.-  AMdA.M,,                                              D'IVOIRE
MAURITANIA                                                                              0~~~~~ROP  EOES0         7OM,d                             -i            0A,R
TAKURITANIA                           a~~~~~~~~~~~ CRE IT RURAL                                                               CE-AA,'~P   7K77    OEYC- 
' V ,              I                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~REDIT RURAL       F-gc-A  ECOOFAA Di   MCET                                                 MC"
'I,  /\,-                                  C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CREDIT MUTSEL                   kb                                    D) 
SENRGAL    -<CREDIT MUTUEL0  c,                                                                                                 /*C5' 
THE    ~                                 AIB BANKSQ"UE" 
GAMBIA ZIm~~~~~~~~7§~~~   -\                              *   ~~~NATIONAL CAP TALF
7)             A                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPITALEESAISTESRIDNS-
C' ~~~~~~'                            16 ~~~~~~ADMINISTRA VR REGIONAL CAP TAOL0
OISSAU 7'                    / R~~~~~~~~URKINLA                  CAP.A E DEWNITERE RESDENT                                                                     OK0-                     0S5K                              R
GiUINEA                    F   -    ASO                 0   PRRFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                  gNqDLCL
C-6 y                                                            PRPECTURIES                                   J                                     r   ?yCD%72A               A
SIERRA                           jCHET LIEU DEEC, R. D                                                                                            C7't"'                                     TEs, _CP 77C O-7CR by h
A A    CCTR D IVOIRE  Jo                          IMITE DE C R.D.                                                                   ,40p7,ivU~l The ,A,ccKIA W)dc,,A-CA
A  )              A                                                                                                             1,~~~~~~~~~~   -   '7         '              oM- --C-CRABONDAIEST F  -AIM,FF7C,A7,
UBERIA"'                          - - -   ~~~~~~~~~~PREPECTURE BOUNDAR7ES                                                         a                                     UeF9 C o 'pI    c AOC
IIMITES DES PREFECTUIRESLIBERIAV                                                      --
*  I                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL ROLUNDARIRS                                                   s ocITe'CIRiLDC7AA7LAA7
-' N      i-'             '                      - - -  T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RONEIERES INTERNATIONAIES                                                                                      -y C Acd-.-IsoeCCA7c
L                                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTORER 1998



