                                           Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 34752-GN




                                        PROJECTPAPER


                                              ONA

                     PROPOSEDADDITIONALFINANCINGGRANT

                                     INTHEAMOUNTOF

                   SDR 5.0 MILLION(US$7.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                                    REPUBLICOF GUINEA

                                              FORA

               VILLAGE COMMUNITIESSUPPORT PROGRAM-PHASEI


                                        December21,2005




Environmentally and Socially SustainableDevelopmentIV
CountryDepartment 11
AfricaRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective November 30,2005)
                         Currency Unit = Guinean Francs
                                 US$1 = 4315GNF
                          SDR0.70443     = US$1
                           US1.41958 = SDR1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAP    Africa Action Plan
ADF    African Development Foundation
AFD    Agence Franqaise de Developpement
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CRD    Communaute Rurale de Developpement
IFAD   International Fundfor Agricultural Development
KPI    K e y Perfonnance Indicators
PDO    Project Development Objective
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
VCSP   Village Communities Support Program




                        Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                      Country Director:     Mamadou Dia
                       Sector Manager:      Mary A. Barton-Dock
                    Task Team Leader:       Abdoulaye Toure

                                    REPUBLICOF GUINEA

                  Village CommunitiesSupportProgram.                                        PhaseI
                                        Additional Financing

                                                CONTENTS


A. INTRODUCTION     .................................................................................................................             5

B
.  BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                        ....................     5

C. PROPOSEDCHANGES             ......................................................................................................             7

D. CONSISTENCYWITHTHE COUNTRYASSISTANCE STRATEGY                                                                    ........................      8

E. ECONOMICANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUNOR FINANCINGGAP                                                                       ....................     8

F EXPECTEDOUTCOMES
.                                  ..................................................................................................             8

G BENEFITSAND RISKS
 .                             ......................................................................................................             9

H FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONSFORADDITIONAL FINANCING
 .                                                                                                                                        .........9
Annex 1: Progresson Key PerformanceIndicators                           ...............................................................          10

Annex 2: Map (IBRD 29659)     .....................................................................................................              12

FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                              REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                  Village Communities Support Program- Phase 1
                                Additional Financing

                          PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET

Date: December 21,2005                      Team Leader: Abdoulaye Tour6
Country: Republic o f Guinea                Sector Manager: Mary A. Barton-Dock
Project Name: Village Communities           Country Director: Mamadou Dia
Support Program (Phase I)                   Environmental Category: B
Project ID: PO50732 (Original Credit) and
PO98959 (Additional Financing Grant)




                                                                    oYes X N o
                                                                    oYes     o N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?       Iayes XNO
Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes: The development objectives of the
project have not beenrevised.




Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o
I                             For Additional Financing
[ 3 Loan   [ ] Credit  [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$7 million equivalent
       Proposed terms: Grant




Others

A. INTRODUCTION

This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide an additional grant in
an amount o f SDR 5 million (US$7 million equivalent) to Guinea for the Village Communities
Support Program (VCSP) - PhaseI(Project ID P050732; Credit 3174-GUI).

The proposed additional grant would cover project scale-up to increase the number o f
communities benefiting from project support in order to leverage and build upon a better than
expected implementation capacity and results to date. The additional financing would also enable
preservation o f this capacity and implementation momentum while second APL phase i s under
preparation.

The Credit supporting the Project was originally extended until December 31, 2005 to support
the process leading to local elections to replace appointed rural development community
(Communaute' R u d e de De'veloppement (CRD))             leaders by democratically       elected
representatives.   These elections are planned for December 18, 2005, and were the sole
remaining trigger for the Project's second phase. At the present time, remaining IDA resources
for FY06 are, however, insufficient to finance the second phase o f the VCSP (estimated at
US$35 million); while it i s expected that sufficient FY07 resources are available.          The
Additional Financing, which would have a closing date o f June 30,2007, would thus also help
bridge the gap between the end o f the first phase and the start-up of the second phase, avoiding
loss o f momentum o f the program. Moreover, as the VCSP has been increasingly used as a
vehicle for providing services to communities, two Bank operations (the Multi-Sectoral AIDS
Project and the Education for All Project) will face implementation problems ifVCSP funding i s
interrupted.

Following Midterm Review, the Project had scaled-up its geographic coverage from the original
target o f 100 to 146 CRDs. The Additional Financing would enable the VCSP to continue
capacity-building activities, and support the implementation and updating o f local development
plans in these 146 CRDs and ensure that the new representative local governments have the
capacity to leadparticipatory local development planningand implementation processes.

The VCSP i s being implemented in partnership with the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), the French Development Agency (AFD) and the African Development
Foundation (ADF). FAD i s providing direct co-funding, while AFD and the ADF will provide
program support through parallel financing targeted at specific geographic areas (AFD in G u i d e
foresti2re and ADF in Guine'e maritime). IFAD support for the first phase will end on December
31, 2005 and will resume as part o f the second phase o f the VCSP. IFAD will not provide
financing to bridge the gap betweenthe two program phases.

B. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

The original Credit supporting the first phase o f the VCSP, inthe amount o f SDR 15.84 million
(US$22 million equivalent) was approved on February 23, 1999. The Credit became effective on
November 30,1999.



                                                 5

The original objectives for the first phase o f the VCSP were to: (i)    establish an operationally
effective decentralized system for local development; and (ii)increase access of the rural
population to basic infrastructure and services. Inorder to achieve these objectives, the Project
has sought to: (i)  establish an effective and efficient mechanism for transferring public funds to
local communities for the financing o f prioritized rural community infrastructure; (ii)   improve
the regulatory, institutional and fiscal environment and develop local capacity for decentralized
rural development; and (iii)    rehabilitate and promote regular maintenance o f infrastructure and
rural roads.

The VCSP's original objectives are still judged valid. Two changes were made to the Project
during implementation.        Firstly, following Midterm Review, it was agreed to expand the
Project's geographic coverage beyond 100 CRDs, as Government implementation capacity was
greater than originally estimated, and many CRDs had expressed a strong desire to participate in
the Project. As of June 30, 2005, 146 CRDs were participating in the Project. Secondly,
financing for the Rehabilitation and Maintenance o f Rural Roads Component o f the VCSP was
ended effective June 30, 2005, as these activities were taken over by the second phase o f the
National Rural Infrastructure Program. Progress towards achieving key performance indicators
i s summarized inAnnex 1     I




Based on such progress, the Project was rated highly satisfactory in the last Implementation
Status Report. The Project has tremendously improved the access o f communities to basic social
services, including health, education, and potable water, with the construction o f 263 elementary
schools, 155 health centers and dispensaries, and 167 water holes. In addition, the VCSP has
supported the establishment o f 46 communal forests.        The rehabilitation of rural roads and
construction o f 35 bridges has positively impacted access to markets and thereby provided a
production incentive for local economies. Progress towards the VCSP's overall objective of
strengthening local governance and promoting the rural population's social and economic
empowerment i s satisfactory. The first phase o f the VCSP has had a strong impact on local
governance, with local communities feeling increasingly empowered to hold officials
accountable for the efficient implementation o f development activities. Local tax collection has
also increased dramatically in response to the need to raise contributions for local development
activities funded by external financiers and the close involvement o f beneficiaries in the
decision-making process.         The Project experienced initial start-up delays because the
participatory approach to local development was a new concept for the country at the time,
where most development efforts were top-down, and little experience with such approaches
existed. There were also delays because the Project required not only an in-kind contribution
(15%), but also a cash contribution (5%) from communities before matching grants for micro-
projects would be provided. This relatively high contribution for social infrastructure required
that more time was needed to ensure that the process was fully participatory, lest communities
would withdraw their support. The decrease intax evasion in CRDs where the Project is active
i s testimony that it has broad community support.

One unplanned - and positive - impact o f the Project i s that it has become an efficient
implementation vehicle for other development projects, including HIV/AIDS community
mitigation activities, and health and education projects. The VCSP has shown that communities
can implement investment activities at the local level more efficiently than public services. The
Guinea Education for All Project recently agreed to carry out construction o f over 100


                                                   6

elementary schools through the VCSP as a means o f resolving certain implementation issues. In
addition, all development projects operating in rural Guinea have agreed to use the local
development planning process pioneered by the VCSP as the sole vehicle for implementinglocal
development activities.

The main outstanding issue for the VCSP concerns the local elections for the presidentsof the
CRDs, now planned for December 18, 2005. Preparation for this election i s well advanced and
slates have already been drawn up and vetted. Furthermore, an electoral committee was created
and the date was formally announced.

It is crucial for the VCSP to provide support to CRDs up to the time o f and following the
elections, Continued support will be a stabilizing apolitical influence in participating CRDs.
Past interruptions of donor support to similar development projects - albeit o f smaller
geographic size - have led to increased local tensions. Given that the VCSP covers half the
country, it could become a destabilizing factor if a longer-term interruption in financing occurs.
After the elections, continued support will be necessary to provide training to newly elected
CRD presidents, who will likely be different from those presently in place, as these have been
appointed by the central Government.          In addition, continued support to the nascent
democratization process implies continued investment support to local development to cement
achievements.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

N o new activities will be carried out under the Project, and the geographic coverage will not be
further expanded beyond the 146 CRDs presently benefiting from Project support.               The
Additional Financing will not, however, be used to finance any roads activities, as the second
phase of the Guinea National Rural Infrastructure Project i s expected to finance these.

The implementation arrangements will remain largely unchanged (institutional, financial
management, procurement, etc.). The main change concerns the financing and disbursement
arrangements. The original Project was directly co-financed usingpari passu arrangements with
IFAD. IFAD is not planning any additional financing for the first-phase VCSP as it lacks such
resources.    Hence the pari passu arrangements will not be applicable to the Additional
Financing, and IDA will increase its financing percentage o f eligible expenditures to
compensate. The authorized limited o f one of the special accounts will also be increased to
reflect experience gained duringproject implementation. The AFD and the ADF will continue to
provide funding for the VCSP. In the case o f these agencies, funding has been focused on
geographically limited areas, where they would fund all Project activities at 100percent (Guine'e
ForestiBre inthe case o f the AFD and Guine'eMaritime inthe case o f the ADF).

The new Closing Date for the original Credit and the Additional Financing would be June 30,
2007, which would coincide with the expected effectiveness date o f the second phase o f the
VCSP. The funds requested for Additional Financing would be adequate to finance Project
activities throughthe Closing Date.

The proposed activities do not trigger any new safeguard policies or raise the environmental
category o f the project. The procedures laid out in the environmental management plan o f the


                                                7

VCSP will apply to micro-projects funded through the Additional Financing. These procedures
have been evaluated at the time o f Midterm review and pre-appraisal o f the second phase and
were found to be satisfactory. In addition, capacity building was carried out as part o f project
implementation to ensure that procedures were consistently applied. As a result, the safeguards
system has worked well and no issues were identified duringProject implementation.

D. CONSISTENCY WITH THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY

The activities to be financed under the Additional Financing are fully consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), and Focal Areas 2, 3
and4 o f the Africa Action Plan (AAP).The VCSP has been a main component o fthe CAS low-
case scenario, and its implementation fully supports the three pillars that comprise the framework
for the Bank's support to the country:

     0   Fostering sustainable and equitable growth through the improved market access o f local
         communities;
     0   Improving access to and quality o f basic social services through support to socio-
         economic infrastructure and direct link with other projects in the health and education
         sectors; and
     0   Governance and institutional and human capacity building through training, support to
         decentralization, and empowerment o f local populations

E. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUN OR FINANCING GAP

No ex-ante economic analysis was carried out for the VCSP as it i s a demand-driven project in
support o f socio-economic investments. Inthe absence o f quantifiable data, the assumption was
that local populations would select those activities that were likely to provide the highest
benefits. As the Project will continue to provide such support, again, it i s difficult to provide an
ex-ante economic analysis.

Implementation experience has shown, however, that community-managed investme,nts are
implemented ina muchmore cost-effective manner than similar investmentsmanagedbypublic
agencies (40-60% less costly on average based on an analysis at Midterm Review), while quality
i s at least comparable, and ownership i s much greater. Past public investmentshave not been
maintainedby local populations inpart because these investments did not reflect localpriorities.
The participatory selection process usedby the Project ensures a highdegree o f satisfaction of
and ownership bybeneficiary populations, leadingto increased investments inmaintenance

F. EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

The targets for the project's PDO (Project Development Objective) and intermediate outcome
indicators have been revised to reflect outputs expected under the Additional Financing Grant.
The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the additional financing grant are as follows:

      0   80 percent o f CRDs have successfully raised the 20% community contribution to fund
          the implementationof their Annual Investment Plan



                                                 8

    0   60 percent o f approved micro projects are satisfactorily completed, as measured by
        technical audits

    0   60 percent o f completed investments have functional maintenance plans inplace

    0   60 percent o fnewly elected presidents o f CRDs have been trained inthe participatory
        local development process

    0   75 percent o f local developmentplans over three years old have been updated

    0   75 percent of pre-2006, project-financed, socio-economic infrastructure i s fully
        functional and action plans inplace for the remaining 20 percent

G. BENEFITS AND RISKS

The main two risks facing the VCSP will be political and conflict-related. Political parties could
try to use the VCSP as a vehicle to support future candidates. The only way to prevent this from
happening is to continue Project activities in all CRDs presently covered by the Project, making
it clear that the second phase o f the Project will be national and that CRD inclusion will not be
dependent on the membershipo fthe political party o fthe presidento fthe CRD. This is reflected
inthe communications strategy ofthe VCSP.

Guinea i s considered a pre-conflict country in which tensions are growing, not only due to the
cross-boundary impact of hostile activities (or their aftermath) elsewhere, but also from sources
within country, such as migration to coastal areas where land is becoming scarce, farmer-
pastoralist conflict, ethnic conflicts, etc. Several instruments are under preparation to try to
minimize conflict through the participatory mechanism of the VCSP, and will be available for
testing in early 2006.

H. FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

Guinea i s one of the poorest countries inAfrica and i s eligible only for grant-based support under
IDA 14. Accordingly, the Additional Financingwill take the form o fan IDA Grant.




                                                 9

                             Annex 1: Progress on Key PerformanceIndicators


                                                    PerformanceIndicators                       Situation at June 30,2005


                                        Centralized government agencies and                Satisfactory progress
Project Objectives:                     decentralized services are effectively
                                        supporting local development efforts
          Set up and operationalize     Additional CRDs are prepared for
          an effective and efficient,   mobilization under an eventual PhaseI1             Satisfactoryprogress

          decentralized system for      CRDs plan, execute, maintain, and evaluate
          local development             basic infrastructures, and can design              Satisfactory progress
                                        comprehensive Local Development Plans
          Increase access of rural      Improved access by roads to rural area,
          population to basic           increased reliability o f feeder road system, and  Satisfactory progress
          infrastructure and services   reduced transportation costs
                                        Contractual agreement signed with 70 CRDs          4greements signed with 146 CRDs
Project Components:                                                                        satisfactorily done, 204 annual
                                        CRDs successfully raise the 20% local              investment plans financed (several
1) Local Investment Fund:               community contribution                             ZRDs have benefited from support to
                                                                                           more than one annual investment plan)
          Village Investment Fund       Funds are passedina transparent and timely         Satisfactorily done, main constraint i s
          and Innovation Support        manner to the local level, and from local level    the capacity o fthe World Bank to
          Fundset-up and operating      to contractors, for approved community             replenish the Special Account ina
                                        activities                                         timely manner

                                        CRDs successfully complete micro-projects          Satisfactorily done (704 micro-
                                        identified intheir annual investment program       projects identified and successfully
                                                                                           imdemented)
                                        Maintenance fund equivalent to 1% o f the
                                        value o f the completed micro-projects             Satisfactorily done
                                        established in 70 CRDs
                                        Review o f decentralization's legal and            Review completed before mid-term
2) Support to Local Development         regulatory texts completed by mid-term and         and several texts were drafted. These
                                        changes promulgated by end o f project             texts are expected to be adopted by the
          Overall policy, legal, fiscal                                                    revised closing date.
          and institutional             New system for fiscal transfers, and local         CRDs allowed to retain local
          frameworks strengthened       collection o f tax collection and utilization i s  development tax for the purposed o f
          to enable decentralization    tested                                             financing local investments. Local
                                                                                           development tax increased from GF
                                                                                           2000 to GF 5000 and collection rate
                                                                                           almost doubled (50 pre-project to 90%
                                                                                           in2004)
                                        Laws, decrees, other texts on decentralization     Activity transferred to PRCIbecause
                                        translated into local languages, distributed and   o f better fit with objectives.
                                        explained to prefectures and CRDs
           Capacity of key ministries,  Training to strengthen capacity o f                 1275 civil servants were trained ;
           governmental institutions,   national, regional and decentralized               Activity transferred to PRCI
           and regional authorities     services i s provided based on continuous          because o f better fit with
           improved to support          skill-gap analysis                                 objectives
           decentralization             Decentralization forum established and             Forumestablished and functioning
                                        hnctioning effectively                             satisfactorily. F o r u m of CRD
                                                                                           presidents was held annually
                                                                                           startine in2001.




                                                                  10

                                                PerformanceIndicators                    Situation at June 30,2005


                                       DNGRmaintenanceunitrestructured              Satisfactorily done
                                       and MID agencies responsible for
                                       decentralization rationalized
                                       Quality and timely provision o f support     Satisfactorily done
                                       by decentralizedservices, prefectures,
                                       and CRDs for local development are
                                       improved
          Capacity o f CRDs, local     Training to strengthen local capacity        >14,0000 persons
          institutions, and            provide, based on continuous skill-gap
          communities strengthened     analysis
          to identify, plan,           Community fora convene regularly, and        Satisfactorily done
          implement, evaluate, and     maintaintransparent records o f their
          maintain basic               deliberations
          infrastructure and services  Participating CRDs prepare diagnostics       Satisfactorily done inall
                                       and annual investment programs in            participating CRDs (146)
                                       participatory manner
                                       Participatory tool for Local development     Tools available at start-up o f
                                       planning designedtested                      capacity buildingactivities
                                       Maintenance strategy formulated and          Adopted by Council o f Ministers
3) Maintenance and Rehabilitation      implemented                                  onNovember 6,2003
o f Rural Roads                        Contractors will rehabilitated 9 0 h ,     112,078 kmrehabilitated
                                       they will also spot improve 150 km'and       99.85% o f feeder roads
     0    Environment-friendly         maintain 500 kmo f priority feeder roads     maintained, while critical spot
          rural roads renovation and   per year                                     maintenance i s performed on the
          maintenance program                                                       full network
          being executed locally
                                       Locally selected maintenance                 250 established and functional
                                      Icommittees are operational in
                                       participating communities (250)'




 Depending on project activities there can be more than one committee per CRD, hence the number o f 250 for the
original 100 CRDs.


                                                          11

Annex 2: Map




   12


