Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3174 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Village Communities Support Program (Phase I))
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3174 GUI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated December 30, 1998, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve the conditions and standards of living of its population in the Borrower’s 
rural areas (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of twelve years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan in an amount of five million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 5,000,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be concluded between 
the Borrower and IFAD;  
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower intends to obtain or has obtained from other various Donors 
(as hereinafter defined) loans and grants to assist in financing the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“CRD” means Communauté Rurale de Développement; 
(b)
“MPC” means Ministère du Plan et de la Coopération, the Borrower’s 
Ministry responsible for planning and international cooperation; 
(c)
“MAEF” means Ministère de l’Agriculture, des Eaux et Forêts, the 
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for agriculture; 
(d)
“MID” means Ministère de l’Intérieur et de la Décentralisation, the 
Borrower’s Ministry responsible for interior affairs and decentralization; 
(e)
“Donors” mean any national or multilateral agency contributing, resources  
to, or technical assistance for, the Project; 
(f)
“DNGR” means Direction Nationale du Génie Rural, a directorate of MAEF 
responsible for rural roads maintenance operations;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period beginning January 1 and 
ending December 31 of each year according to the Gregorian calendar; 
(h)
“Franc Guinéen” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(i)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a 
Page  3
Micro-project (as hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project;
(j)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations; 
(k)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited into the 
Project Account, as hereinafter defined, pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(l)
“NPCU” means the National Project Coordination Unit referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
“NGO” means one or several non-governmental organization, established and 
operating in the territory of the Borrower; 
(n)
“Local Investment Fund” or “LIF” means a funding mechanism aimed at 
providing Grants to Beneficiaries for carrying out Micro-projects (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(o)
“Prefectures” means an administrative area of the territory of the 
Borrower; 
(p)
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Manuel d’Exécution du 
Projet, a manual containing, inter alia, guidelines, timetables, procedures and other 
arrangements for the purpose of implementing the Project, including the LIF, and such 
term includes any schedules and amendments to the PIM; as the same may be amended from 
time to time, in consultation with and with the consent of the Association; 
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to two letters of agreement signed 
by the Association respectively on December 12, 1997, and on December 30, 1998, and 
countersigned by the Borrower respectively on December 22, 1997, and on January 3, 
1999;
(r)
“Micro-project” means a specific activity in the areas referred to in 
Part A of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a Grant extended 
under the LIF; 
(s)
“Beneficiary” means a community or group which meets the criteria 
specified in the PIM to which or for whose benefit a grant is made a proposed to be 
made for the carrying out of a Micro-project under the Project;
(t)
“Special Account” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(u)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on the account of 
withdrawals made under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for implementation of a Micro-project, and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars three separate special deposit accounts, namely, Special Account A to be 
opened in the name of MPC; Special Account B, to be opened in the name of MID; and 
Special Account C to be opened in the name of DNGR; all in a commercial bank or any 
other bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection 
against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2009, and ending October 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2018, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
Page  5
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgement of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree the Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in Francs Guinéen in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, (the Project Account) and thereafter maintain said Project Account under 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the 
Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount equivalent to 
$300,000 and (ii) thereafter, on the first day of each calendar quarter, replenish the 
Project Account by the amounts required to finance the Borrower’s contribution for 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit, or grants and loans made available by Donors, as shall be agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association; and 
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit, or grants and 
loans made available by Donors. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
Page  6
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
Page  7
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of 
the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the 
initial amount referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has established the NPCU and the PSC in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed: (i) the National Project Coordinator and four 
regional project coordinators; (ii) the Financial and Administrative Management 
Officer (FAMO); and (iii) a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Officer; all with 
qualifications and professional experience satisfactory to the Association, and 
recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
(d)
the Borrower has established an accounting and financial management 
system satisfactory to the Association; 
(e)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
(f)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association; and 
(g)
the IFAD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been 
fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  8
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Boite Postale 579
Conakry 
Republic of Guinea
Telex:
22399 MIFIGE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Mohamed Aly Thiam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Civil works
   3,000,000
70%
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
     900,000
75% of foreign,
and materials
and 70% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services,
   4,200,000
75%
audits and training
(4)
Grants for
   2,300,000
75% of amounts
Micro-projects
disbursed
(5)
Incremental operating
   2,700,000
70%
costs
(6)
Refunding of the
   1,100,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,500,000
TOTAL
  15,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring including office 
consumables (including communication expenses), staff travel and associated 
subsistence allowances selected to the Project, salaries for incremental contractual 
and temporary staff, office rental, office supplies and maintenance, and fuel and 
maintenance for vehicles and equipment, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of a Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and 
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after December 31, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works and 
goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b) for consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for individual consultants’ services under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to 
reduce poverty among its rural populations inter alia by: (a) improving the regulatory 
and institutional framework as required to enable decentralized entities to discharge 
Page  10
their functions and responsibilities in an effective manner; (b) establish an 
efficient financing mechanism aimed at ensuring the timely availability of funding 
required for the construction and maintenance of community infrastructures at the 
local level; and (c) rehabilitate and promote a regular maintenance of community 
infrastructure and rural roads.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Mobilization of Funding for Development of Local Infrastructures 
1.
Formulation of a financing mechanism required to mobilize public funds and to 
channel them in an efficient manner towards the financing of Micro-projects to be 
identified in accordance with priorities determined by communities at the local level 
inter alia through the carrying out of research activities aimed at improving LIF 
implementation procedures and expanding the scope and types of Micro-projects 
susceptible to be funded under the LIF. 
2.
(i)
Promotion, preparation, appraisal, execution, supervision, and evaluation 
of Micro-projects to be carried out under the Project; and (ii) provision of Grants to 
finance the said micro-projects.
Part B:
Strengthening of Institutional Capacity to Foster Development at the 
Local Level  
1.
Acquisition of technical advisory services to carry out studies aimed at 
revamping the institutional, regulatory and fiscal framework with a view to devolving 
adequate powers and resources to local government institutions as required to promote 
sustainable development and economic growth at the grassroots level. 
2.
Provision of training, and technical advisory services to build the capacity of 
local communities and local governments to formulate and monitor the execution of 
community Micro-projects and maintenance of community infrastructure and facilities. 
3.
Strengthening of the operational capacity of the relevant agencies of MAEF, MID, 
MPC and of relevant local governments responsible for carrying out any part of the 
Project to enable them to discharge their responsibilities in the most efficient 
manner through the provision of training and technical advisory services. 
4.
Formulation and execution of an information/education/communication strategy 
aimed at sensitizing targeted groups on relevant factors deemed critical for ensuring 
the successful implementation of the Project through the carrying out of appropriate 
seminars, workshops and mass media information campaigns to foster wide transparency 
about Project implementation activities.
Part C:
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads 
1.
Formulation and implementation of an appropriate strategy to foster the 
rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads through the participation of local 
communities in the planning, the programming and the execution of the said 
rehabilitation and maintenance operations.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) rehabilitation works; (b) periodic and routine maintenance 
works; and (c) spot improvement works; all on rural roads.
3.
Acquisition of technical advisory services required to strengthen DNGR’s  
capacity to enable it to: (a) supervise adequately the execution of rural roads 
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance works; (b) ensure that relevant 
environmental protection and safety measures are fully integrated into the design of 
rural roads construction or rehabilitation works; and (c) provide technical assistance 
to local communities as required in their carrying out of community infrastructure 
building and maintenance works.
Part D:
Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Establishment of appropriate accounting, financial management and management 
Page  11
information systems to ensure a proper overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation 
of the implementation of the Project . 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following provisions of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Vehicles, and equipment may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the 
Page  12
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, were applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 5,000,000 required for 
Part A of the Project may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.15 of the Guidelines and modalities and procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
Page  13
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of consultant’s qualifications in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least Cost Selection
Services for audits and design and supervision of civil works estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of least cost selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for training and technical assistance to local communities may be 
procured, with the Association’s prior agreement, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants’ Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks meeting the requirements of Section V of the consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIM and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of said PIM if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring and performance indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project; 
and
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments: 
(i)
not later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 
1999, or 
such later date as the Association may agree, until 
the completion of the 
Project, the draft work program and 
related budget for the next Fiscal Year; 
and
(ii)
not later than October 31 of each year, or such later date as the 
Association 
may agree, commencing on October 31, 1999, until the 
completion of the 
Project, an annual report setting forth, inter 
alia: (A) a summary of the 
results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, and (B) progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the 
Project. 
3.
(a)
By December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 1999 or such later 
date as the Association may agree, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out an 
annual review of the Project (the Annual Review); such Annual Review shall cover the 
progress achieved in the execution of the Project including, inter alia, the proposed 
work programs and related budgets to be carried out during the following year.
(b)
Following the said Annual Review, the Borrower shall carry out the said 
work programs in accordance with the modalities and procedures approved by the 
Association and in accordance with the PIM. 
4.
(a)
By December 31, 2001 or such other date as the Borrower and the 
Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out a 
mid-term review (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). The Borrower shall 
take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of Donors, NGOs, 
and Beneficiaries in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Donors including the Association, for their review and comments, a 
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
implementation of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association 
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project and the Program, 
as the case may be, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish the PSC and the NPCU and thereafter, maintain them throughout 
the duration of the implementation of the Project, with membership, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association;
Page  15
(b)
recruit and maintain until the completion of the Project: (i) a National 
Project Coordinator, based in MPC, who shall have at all times, qualifications, and 
experience acceptable to  the Association, and who shall be responsible for the 
management and coordination of the implementation of the Project; and (ii) appoint 
four regional project coordinators who shall each have at all times qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association and who shall be responsible for 
coordinating, monitoring and evaluation of the Project operations at the regional 
level;
(c)
ensure that the position of FAMO, and the position of Project Monitoring 
and Evaluation Officer are staffed at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, with professionals with qualification and experience acceptable to the 
Association; and
(d)
take all measures required on its part to: (i) ensure that an adequate 
representation of the civil society is achieved on the Conseil Communautaire of each 
CRD to be covered by the Project activities, in a manner consistent with the Borrower 
legal framework on decentralization; and (ii) entrust each CRD with the necessary 
powers to prepare, adopt and execute its own budgets without any prior approval from 
the “tutelle” authorities.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
(i)
by June 30, 2003, design the financing mechanism referred to under 
Part A.1 of the Project and promptly submit a draft thereof to the Association for its 
review and comments; (ii) finalize the said draft by taking into account the comments 
made by the Association; and (iii) promptly thereafter, make the said financing 
mechanism operational in accordance with the modalities agreed upon with the 
Association; and
(b)
(i)
by December 31, 2002, carry out the studies referred to under Part 
B.1 of the Project and promptly, upon their completion, submit the results of the said 
studies to the Association for its review and comments; and (ii) take all measures 
required on its part to streamline and update its institutional and regulatory 
framework for decentralization in accordance with the results of the said studies and 
a timetable agreed upon with the Association. Local Investment Fund 
7.
Part A of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria, procedures, and terms and conditions specified in detail in the PIM. The 
provisions of such Manual shall not be amended or waived in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, would materially and adversely affect the execution of 
Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
8.
The first five micro-projects shall be subject to prior review and approval by 
the Association. 
9.
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-projects
Micro-projects shall be for activities in the areas of basic community 
infrastructure such as schools, heath care centers, feeder roads, water schemes and 
sanitation facilities in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and 
guidelines set forth in the PIM. 
10.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Micro-Projects
For purposes of financing Micro-projects, the Borrower shall enter into 
appropriate arrangements with Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, which shall include the following:
(a)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (i) carry out the Micro-project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental, managerial and participatory standards and to maintain adequate records 
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Micro-project; and (ii) establish and maintain a 
fund aimed at mobilizing financial resources required to ensure an adequate and 
sustainable maintenance of key infrastructure developed by the Beneficiary with the 
Page  16
proceeds of the Grant;
(b)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy, and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Micro-project; and
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Micro-project, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
in respect of Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $300,000 in respect of 
Special Account B and C, respectively, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 in respect of Special 
Account A and an amount equivalent to $150,000 in respect of Special Accounts B and C, 
respectively, until (i) in respect of Special Account A, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000, and (ii) in 
respect of the Special Accounts B and C, respectively, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions for the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR500,000, 
under the Special Account B and the Special Account C respectively. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
Page  17
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the eligible Categories, and in the 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
Page  18
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
