                                            Document of
                                        The World Bank


                                                                        Report No: ICR0000958




                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (COFN-04310 IDA-31740 IDA-H2010)




                                            ON A CREDIT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.7 MILLION
                                 (US$ 22 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                           AND AN ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.0 MILLION
                                (US$ 7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                           IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

                        VILLAGE COMMUNITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM


                                         September 30, 2008




Agricultural and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective September 2008)

                            Currency Unit =
                             1.00 = US$ [ ]
                             US$ 1.00 = [ ]

                             FISCAL YEAR

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADC     Agent de Développement Communautaire (Community Development Agent)
ADF     African Development Foundation
AFD     Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AIP     Annual Investment Plan
APL     Adaptable Program Lending
APR     Appreciation
AV      Animateur Villageois (Community Outreach Agent)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBG     Compagnie de Bauxite de Guinée
CC      Conseil Communautaire (Community Council)
CDL     Contribution de Développement Local (Local Development Contribution)
CNC     Cellule Nationale de Coordination (Project Coordination Unit)
CRD     Communauté Rurale de Développement (Rural Development Community)
CVEP    Comité Villageois d'Entretien des Pistes (Village Road Maintenance
        Committee)
DNAT    National Directorate for Territorial Administration
DND     Direction Nationale de la Décentralisation (National Directorate for
        decentralization)
DNGR    Direction Nationale de Génie Rural (National Directorate for Rural
        Engineering)
DPC     Diagnostic Participatif Communautaire (Participatory Community
        Diagnostics)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GNF     Guinean Franc
GoG     Government of Guinea
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMDL    Impôt Minimum de Développement Local (Minimum Local Development
        Tax)
LDP     Local Development Plan
LIF     Local Investment Fund
MAEF    Ministère de l'Agriculture, des Eaux et Forêts (Ministry of Agriculture, Water
        and Forestry)
MATD    Ministère de l'Administration du Territoire et de la Décentralisation
        (Ministry for Territorial Administration and Decentralization)

MPC       Ministère du Plan et de la Coopération (Ministry of Planning and
          Cooperation)
MTR       Mid-term Review
MTP       Ministry of Public Works
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PACV      Village Community Support Program (Programme d'Appui aux
          Communautés Villageoises)
PACV I    Village Community Support Project Phase I
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PNIR2     National Rural Infrastructure Project Phase II
PRCI      Programme de Renforcement des Capacités Institutionnelles (Capacity-
          Building for Service Delivery Program)
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC       Project Steering Committee
PSO       Project Specific Objective
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
TTL       Task Team Leader
URC       Unité de Coordination Régionale (Regional Coordination Unit)
US$       United States Dollar
VIF       Village Infrastructure Fund
WB        The World Bank


                       Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                     Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                      Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
                 Project Team Leader: Jane C. Hopkins
                    ICR Team Leader: Martien Van Nieuwkoop

                                                 Guinea
                    Village Communities Support Program -Phase I




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information .....................................................................................i
   B. Key Dates ..............................................................................................i
   C. Ratings Summary        ................................................................................i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................ii
   E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .........................................................viii
   H. Restructuring .......................................................................................viii
   I. Disbursement Graph ................................................................................ ix

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 39
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 44
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
 MAPIBRD 33414 ...............................................................................48

A. Basic Information

                                                                     GN-Village
                                                                     Community Support
Country:                Guinea                 Project Name:
                                                                     Program - Phase 1
                                                                     (APL) - IDA Credit
                                                                     COFN-04310,IDA-
Project ID:             P050732                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     31740,IDA-H2010
ICR Date:               09/30/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                    Borrower:             GOVT OF GUINEA
Original Total
                        XDR 15.7M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 20.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Plan
PACV-CNC
DND, MATD
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
African Development Foundation (ADF)


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/30/1998     Effectiveness:       11/30/1999         11/30/1999
Appraisal:             06/15/1998     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/23/1999     Mid-term Review:                        11/25/2002
                                      Closing:             06/30/2004         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory



                                               i

Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory             Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                    Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 39                 10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector              5                 25
Other social services                                              5                 25
Roads and highways                                                35                 15
Sub-national government administration                            16                 25


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                                 Primary           Primary
Gender                                                          Secondary         Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                               Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                               Secondary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Ishac Diwan                         Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:           Karen Mcconnell Brooks              Jean-Paul Chausse
Project Team Leader:      Jane C. Hopkins                     Bachir Souhlal
ICR Team Leader:          Martien Van Nieuwkoop
ICR Primary Author:       Stanislaw Manikowski




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objects are to: (i) establish an operationally effective and
efficient decentralized system for local development; and (ii) increase access of the rural
population to basic infrastructure and services.

  Specific operational objectives are to (i) establish an effective and efficient mechansim
for transferring public funds to local communitiies for the financing of prioritized rural
community infrastructure; (ii) improve the regulatory, institutional, and fiscal
environment and develop local capacity for decentralized rural development; and (iii)
rehabilitate and promote regular maintenance of infrastrcuture and rural roads.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Centralized government agencies and decentralized services are effectively
                supporting local development efforts.
Value
quantitative or No                         Yes                               Satisfactory

Qualitative)                                                                 progress

Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004                        12/31/2007

Comments        Central government agencies took the lead in local development activities and

(incl. %        carried out studies leading to the establishment of a comprehensive

achievement)    decentralization framework; deconcentrated technical services are working in
                cooperation with CRDs.
Indicator 2 :   Legal and regulatory framework for decentralized rural development is revised.
Value
quantitative or No                         Yes                               Achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The Code des Collectivités Locales, voted in May 2006, is a comprehensive legal

achievement)    framework clearly defining the roles and responsibilities of actors at all levels.

Indicator 3 :   CRDs plan, execute, maintain, and evaluate basic infrastructures, and can design
                comprehensive local development plans (LDP).
Value
quantitative or 0                          70                 100            159
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004         06/30/2004     12/31/2007
Comments        159 CRDs developed participatory LDPs and prioritized annual investment


                                                 iii

(incl. %        programs. All LDPs drafted before 2003 have been updated. A total of 1084
achievement)    microprojects have been implemented by the beneficiary communities.
Indicator 4 :   Improved access to basic infrastructure in rural areas.
Value
quantitative or No                        Yes                               Achieved
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                      Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised     Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of CRDs who have signed at least one contractual agreement for
                financing.
Value
(quantitative   0                         70                  100           159
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004          06/30/2004    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   CRDs have successfully raised the 20% local community contribution for micro-
                projects.
Value
(quantitative   No                        Yes                 80%           97%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004          06/30/2007    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        A quantitative target (% of CRDs) was specified in the Additional Financing

achievement)    Grant Agreement which was signed on 01/30/2006.

Indicator 3 :   CRDs manage micro-project funds in a transparent manner and according to the
                defined procedures.
Value
(quantitative   No                        Yes                 60%           95%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004          06/30/2004    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        A quantitative target (% of CRDs) was specified during the MTR (11/25/2002).
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   CRDs have successfully completed micro-projects financed in their annual
                investment program.
Value
(quantitative   No                        Yes                 70%           91%



                                               iv

or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004          06/30/2004    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       A quantitative target (% of micro-projects successfully completed) was specified

achievement)   during the MTR (11/25/2002).

Indicator 5 :  CRDs have established a maintenance fund equivalent to 1% of the value of the
               completed micro-projects.
Value
(quantitative  No                          Yes                 70%           100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004          06/30/2004    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       A quantitative target (% of CRDs) was specified during the MTR (11/25/2002).
achievement)

Indicator 6 :  New legal and regulatory texts for decentralization are completed and submitted
               to the National Assembly for review.
Value
(quantitative  No                          Yes                               Achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The new Code des Collectivités Locales was adopted and enacted in May 2006.
achievement)

Indicator 7 :  Percent of targeted central and deconcentrated institutions who have received
               planned training.
Value
(quantitative                                                  70%           71%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                  06/30/2004    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was specified during the MTR (11/25/2002). Initially the indicator

achievement)   was more broadly defined.

Indicator 8 :  Decentralization Forum established.
Value
(quantitative  No                          Yes                               Achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 9 :  Percent of institutions trained who feel their understanding of decentralization
               issues and capacity to support CRDs has improved.
Value
(quantitative                                                  80%           95%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                  06/30/2004    12/31/2007
Comments       This indicator was specified during the MTR. The beneficiary survey found that
(incl. %       95% of the individuals trained were using the knowledge acquired.



                                               v

achievement)

Indicator 10 : Percent of targeted CRDs who have receieved training according to the local
               training plan.
Value
(quantitative                                                  65%            100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                  06/30/2004     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was specified during the MTR (11/25/2002). Initially the indicator

achievement)   was more broadly defined.

Indicator 11 : CRD community councils convene on a regular basis (at least four sessions per
               year)
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                                 Satisfactory
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       According to figures from the beneficiary assessment, more than 80% of CRDs

achievement)   hold four community councils a year.

Indicator 12 : Participating CRDs prepare diagnostics, local development plans and annual
               investment programs in participatory manner.
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                                 Achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       All 159 participating CRD successfully carried out diagnostics, drafted local

achievement)   development plans and annual investment programs in a participatory manner.

Indicator 13 : Rural road maintenance strategy formulated and implemented.
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                                 Achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The new maintenacne strategy was adopted by the Council of Ministers on

achievement)   November 6, 2003.

Indicator 14 : 90 km of dirt roads rehabilitated, 150 km of critical spots treated and 500 km of
               priority rural roads maintained.
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                                 Achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                  06/30/2004                          12/31/2007
Comments       85 km of dirt roads were rehabilitated; critical spot improvements were carried
(incl. %       out on 170 km; 1,735 km of priority rural roads were maintained ; 182 meters of
achievement)   small bridges were built.

Indicator 15 : Locally selected village road maintenance committees (CVEP) are established
               and operational in participating CRDs.
Value          No                         Yes                  250            250



                                               vi

(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004        06/30/2004       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       A quantitative target (# of CVEPs) was specified during the MTR (11/25/2002).
achievement)

Indicator 16 : An environmental mitigation plan has been elaborated and is being implemented
               for the roads component.
Value
(quantitative  No                          Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/30/1999                   06/30/2004                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 17 : Percent of newly elected presidents in targeted CRDs trained in the participatory
               local development process.
Value
(quantitative  0                           60%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/30/2006                   06/30/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Indicator added under Additional Financing Grant.
achievement)
Indicator 18 : Percent of local development plans over three years old that have been updated.
Value
(quantitative  0                           75%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/30/2006                   06/30/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       All local development plans drafted prior to January 1, 2003 were updated using

achievement)   lessons learned from their implementation.

Indicator 19 : Percent of pre-2006 project financed socio-economic infrastructure fully
               functional.
Value
(quantitative  0                           75%                                92%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/30/2006                   06/30/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       92% are fully functional and action plans are in place for the remainder.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/23/1999           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00


                                               vii

  2   06/30/2000         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     1.30
  3   12/22/2000         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     2.33
  4   03/02/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     2.47
  5   06/28/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     3.25
  6   06/28/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     3.25
  7   12/26/2001         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     4.72
  8   04/08/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     5.41
  9   10/10/2002         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     7.38
  10  04/09/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory     9.85
  11  12/01/2003         Satisfactory          Satisfactory    14.55
  12  05/28/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory    17.04
  13  12/15/2004         Satisfactory          Satisfactory    19.34
  14  06/29/2005      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory    20.71
  15  12/30/2005      Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory    21.02
  16  06/30/2006         Satisfactory          Satisfactory    23.76
  17  02/05/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory    26.56
  18  12/02/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory    28.96
  19  12/31/2007         Satisfactory          Satisfactory    29.18



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

From independence in 1958 through 1984, Guinea had a high degree of state control over the
economy. This top-down, centralized and bureaucratic command approach resulted in economic
stagnation, deterioration of basic infrastructure, and reduced availability and quality of social
services, especially in rural areas. Major political changes in 1984 paved the way for a series of
important institutional and policy reforms. Economic reforms were initiated that sought to
stabilize the macro-economic environment, disengage the state from production and commercial
activities, liberalize markets and prices and foster private sector growth. Institutional reforms
focused on adopting a legal framework for decentralization and updating the legislation
pertaining to NGOs, cooperatives and other forms of grassroots organizations. The
decentralization laws established 33 urban communes and 303 CRDs. Largely due to these
reforms, economic growth resumed at more than 4 percent per annum during 1986-90, and
increased to 4.6 percent per annum since 1991. Stabilization and adjustment policies supported by
the IMF and World Bank helped reduce inflation from 37 percent in 1987 to less than 2 percent in
1997. The budget deficit reduced from 10 to 7 percent of GDP and the balance of payment
deficit from 13 percent of GDP to less than 9 percent during the same period.

Despite these achievements, a number of factors continued to constrain the Government's efforts
to reduce poverty, especially in rural areas where most of the country's poor live, including: (i)
insufficient participation by citizens and civil society in identifying, designing and managing
development programs; (ii) inadequate and inefficient provision of essential public services and
infrastructure to rural populations due to fragmented sector policies and programs and limited
institutional capacity; and (iii) limited availability of financial resources for rural development.

To address these constraints, the Government elaborated a long-term rural development strategy,
as presented in a Letter of Decentralized Rural Development Policy, with the following key
features: (i) implementing the decentralization policy more effectively by strengthening elected
local government and building the capacity of decentralized institutions and deconcentrated
public service providers; (ii) promoting effective partnerships for localized rural development
between various actors to establish, rehabilitate, maintain, and operate basic social and economic
infrastructure; and (iii) establish a funding mechanism that transfers additional resources to rural
communities end helps them meet priority needs in basic infrastructure and social services.

The Village Communities Support Program (PACV) was prepared as a 12-year, three phase,
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to support the implementation of the Policy Letter. The program
was a central component of the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1997 which
focused on three priorities, including: (i) promoting broad-based sustainable growth for the rural
sector, (ii) improving social service delivery; and (iii) enhancing governance and building
institutional capacities.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The long-term vision of the program is that, upon completion of the final phase, local
communities and their representative local governments will have developed: (i) the capability to
identify, prioritize, plan, and manage their own infrastructure and service needs; (ii) the capacity
to mobilize and use transparently the resources necessary to finance the establishment,



                                                    1

rehabilitation, and maintenance of basic community infrastructure; (iii) the ability to oversee the
implementation, operation and continued maintenance of community infrastructure either by
contracting private firms or through the support of deconcentrated government services; and, (iv)
the capacity to sustain the development efforts and to enhance good governance practices.

The first phase of the program (hereafter termed the `project' and the subject of this
Implementation Completion and Results Report) was designed using lessons from a pilot phase
implemented in five rural municipalities (Communautés Rurales de Développement,-CRD), and
launched a learning process for implementing decentralized rural development by supporting
local infrastructure investments and institutional reforms. The second phase, which became
effective in March 2008, aims to expand decentralized rural development efforts nationwide,
while the third phase will seek to consolidate the Program's reforms and to ensure its
sustainability.

The project development objectives were: (i) to establish an operationally effective and efficient
decentralized system for local development; and (ii) to increase access of the rural population to
basic infrastructure and services.

Specific operational objectives were to: (i) establish an effective and efficient mechanism for
transferring public funds to local communities for the financing of prioritized rural community
infrastructure; (ii) improve the regulatory, institutional, and fiscal environment and develop local
capacity for decentralized rural development; and (iii) rehabilitate and promote regular
maintenance of infrastructure and rural roads.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. However, two PDO indicators and several intermediate output
indicators were modified based on recommendations of the mid-term review to more accurately
capture project outcomes. In addition, several intermediate outcome indicators were added in
2006 when the Additional Financing Grant for US$ 7.0 million was approved and the project
extended by 18 months. The details of the changes are provided in Appendix 1 of Annex 1.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project's primary beneficiaries were Guinea's rural population. Designed as a national
program, to expand over time to all 303 CRDs, the first phase covered more than one half (159
CRDs) and reached 2.0 million people (about thirty-five percent of the rural population) through
investments in socio-economic infrastructure. By improving their access to basic socioeconomic
services, the project had a positive effect on the well-being and productivity of the rural
population. The project's participatory processes and selection criteria ensured that the views and
priorities of the beneficiaries were fully represented. Furthermore, the beneficiaries played an
active and crucial role in planning, decision-making, and managing their development efforts.
Women, youth and other traditionally disadvantaged groups were represented on project
committees at CRD, district and community levels.

The project also targeted local and national institutions, which benefitted from capacity building
activities and therefore improved their ability to fulfill their institutional mandates in support of
rural development. These institutions included: (i) 159 local governments (CRDs); (ii)
deconcentrated technical and administrative units of the central government in 33 prefectures,
100 sub-prefectures, and numerous devolved technical service units; and (iii) central Ministries,


                                                   2

including the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture (in particular, Direction Nationale
du Génie Rural), and the Ministry of the Interior and Decentralization (in particular the Direction
Nationale de la Décentralisation-DND).

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project included four main components: (i) Local Investment Fund; (ii) Support for Local
Development; (iii) Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads; and (iv) Project Management,
Monitoring and Evaluation.

Component I: Local Investment Fund (LIF) (US$9.97 million): The Local Investment Fund was
designed as a mechanism for transferring funds to local communities to finance prioritized
community infrastructure projects on a demand-driven basis. The LIF was comprised of two
funding windows, including a Village Investment Fund (VIF) which constituted 95% of the funds
and an Innovation Fund. The VIF helped finance a predetermined menu of basic social
infrastructure, such as education, health, drinking water and sanitation facilities, and village
access roads.

Component II:      Support for Local Development (US$10.53 million): The objective of this
component was to rationalize and operationalize the regulatory and institutional environment for
local development.      For this purpose the component included five sets of activities:          (i)
streamlining of the legal and regulatory framework for decentralization; (ii) establishment of
effective fiscal and financial decentralization; (iii) the improvement of CRDs'capacity to manage
local development program; (iv) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Interior and
Decentralization agencies and services; and (v) sensitizing and training elected local officials and
CRD administrative and technical staff in the areas of local development government, planning
and financial management.

Component III:     Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads (US$11.06 million): This
component sought to: (i) improve the access of isolated rural communities to the national roads
network; and (ii) establish a sustainable rural roads management and maintenance system.
Activities targeted under this component included: (i) formulating and establishing a rural roads
maintenance strategy, including establishing and supporting Village Maintenance Committees
(CVEP-Comités Villageois d'Entretien des Pistes) to manage intra-village tracks and dirt roads;
(ii) ensuring the efficient rehabilitation, periodic maintenance, and critical spot improvement of
priority rural roads; and (iii) providing institutional support to the Direction Nationale du Génie
Rural du Ministère de l'Agriculture, des Eaux et Forêts (MAEF/DNGR), the implementing
agency for this component, which included restructuring its operations and maintenance
arrangements.

Component IV: Project management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$5.66 million): This
component covered: (i) project coordination, oversight and financial management, including
establishment and operation of National and Regional Coordinating Units; and (ii) establishment
and management of the overall monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system.

1.6 Revised Components

During the mid-term review, the Innovation Fund window of the Local Investment Fund was
dropped due to the low level of awareness, and therefore demand, from communities since
implementation efforts were primarily focused on the socio-economic investments funded by the
larger Village Investment Fund.


                                                   3

The Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads component of the project closed in 2005
since it was fully disbursed and the National Rural Infrastructure Project (PNIR2) - with a focus
on rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads - became effective in April 2005.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

The number of local governments (CRDs) initially targeted was 70. This was increased to 100 at
the time of the mid-term review due to: (i) high demand from local governments and
communities; and (ii) greater capacity for scaling-up than originally envisioned. At the end of the
first phase, 159 CRDs had been reached.

In 2005, the Government requested additional financing to address increasing demands from local
governments, provide capacity building for the newly elected local councils, and preserve the
capacity and implementation momentum until the second phase was prepared. An Additional
Financing Grant, in the amount of 7.0 US$ million, was approved on December 21, 2005.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation for PACV-I was conducted between 1998 and 1999. It took 13 months to
identify the project, finalize its design and bring it to the Board approval. The project design was
fully consistent with the Government's priorities expressed in its Decentralized Rural
Development Policy and to address the key constraints expressed therein. It was also consistent
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at the time. The project design incorporated lessons
from a pilot initiative between 1996 and 1998 in five CRDs, which yielded a wealth of
information on the potential impact of this project and how to foster equitable and sustainable
local development.

Project preparation was carried out under the full leadership of the Government and involved a
variety of stakeholders including donors, NGOs, and representatives of civil society and local
governments. Donor collaboration during project preparation was effective, and resulted in co-
financing arrangements for project implementation. In addition to the World Bank, three other
donors - the African Development Foundation (ADF), the French Development Agency (AFD)
and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) contributed to project financing.

Total project costs for the first phase was US$38 million of which IDA contributed US$ 22
million. The remainder of the project finanancing was provided through: (i) a pari-passu co-
financing arrangement with IFAD (US$ 7.0 million); and (ii) parallel financing arrangements
with ADF (US$ 1.9 million) and AFD (US$ 3.8 million). IDA and IFAD resources funded
project activities related to investment and capacity building at the local level, in addition to all
costs related to project management, monitoring and evaluation. On the other hand, ADF and
AFD co-financing exclusively financed capacity building and demand-driven investments carried
out at the local level, in limited number of CRDs (3 CRDs in Guinée Maritime for ADF and for
all CRD in Guinée Forestière for AFD).




                                                  4

2.2 Implementation

Despite a slow start, project implementation quickly gained steam although at the time of the
mid-term review, project performance still fell somewhat short of original expectations as
reflected by a disbursement rate of 41% (instead of the 63% planned). By design, the project's
implementation called for a large number of stakeholders at the national, intermediate and local
levels, and required important coordination among national institutions, the private sector and
local communities. At project effectiveness, it quickly became apparent that the required capacity
at the national level was not adequate to immediately carry out the entrusted responsibilities. For
instance, the National Directorate for Decentralization, one of the most important institutions
involved in project implementation, initially struggled to lead the implementation of project
activities related to capacity building for local governments and communities, the participatory
diagnosis, the identification and planning of micro-projects to be financed by the Local
Investment Fund. As a result, it took more time for local governments to submit their first annual
investment plans than originally envisaged.

The project's implementation also suffered from (i) civil wars in three neighboring countries
(Sierra Leone, Liberia and Cote d'Ivoire) and the resulting political instability in Guinea; and (ii)
inflation, and its effects on the project's financial planning. The temporary suspension of project
funding by AFD and IFAD also affected the speed of disbursement. In addition, the Bank's
Institutional Capacity Support Project (PRCI), designed to address capacity needs for public
services, failed to gain steam, faced several problems leading to its cancellation, which also
affected the capacity of decentralized and devolved entities to carry out their oversight and
technical control roles in the implementation of project activities at the local level.

Finally, the project's co-financing arrangements affected project implementation. First, the
suspension, on several occasions, of IFAD financing due to reasons unrelated to the project,
created a gap in financing for project activities co-financed with IDA. This gap had to be filled
with IDA funds, in order to avoid delays in project implementation. Given the agreed
disbursement procedures, this situation caused additional delays that affected the rhythm of
project implementation, in CRDs covered through IDA-IFAD co-financing and project
coordination, monitoring and evaluation activities. Second, the parallel financing mechanism also
suffered from suspension of AFD financing, which resulted in the temporary halt of project
activities in Guinée Forestière. The effects of either co-financing mechanism on project
implementation were taken into consideration in the design of the second phase.

On the positive side, the Government's commitment to decentralization agenda was positive
throughout project implementation, as evidenced by: (i) the timely provision of counterpart
funding, (ii) its active role in addressing staffing needs at the DND when such issue were brought
to is attention, including appointing a new Director whose leadership marked a new beginning for
the project in late 2001, and (iii) the regular attendance by a high number of ministers at project
supervision missions' briefings. Moreover, the Government has fully provided in a timely fashion
its counterparts funding throughout project implementation. However, it is worth noting that the
Government's inability to keep its financial obligations vis-à-vis two of the project's co-financing
agencies (AFD and IFAD) resulted in the suspension of disbursement on several occasions.
Finally, the Government's inability to consistently provide staff in a timely manner had an
impact, at times, on the functionality of some of the project financed infrastructures.




                                                   5

Project implementation also benefitted from the dynamic coordination and effective management
of the National Coordination Unit (CNC) and its subsidiary Regional Coordination Units (URC).
Local level project beneficiaries were fully involved in project implementation and are largely
responsible for the positive outcomes achieved. Likewise, at its later stage, the renewed
commitment of the DND under new leadership, and the involvement of DNGR proved vital for
project's success.

Finally, the Bank task team's flexibility and proactive support to the project implementation,
including 17 supervision missions and a mid-term review was instrumental in identifying
problems and providing timely solutions, thereby minimizing their impact on project
implementation. Examples include authorizing the appointment of better qualified personnel in
the project's counterpart institutions and the creation of a Technical Director position within CNC
after the mid-term review, which proved to be a key move in accelerating the pace of project
implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Overall, the M&E system was able to provide a relatively comprehensive picture of the project's
progress and achievements that reflected the situation on the ground in a reasonable fashion. The
project M&E system was designed with a central unit located in CNC, with relays within DND,
and the RCUs. The system achieved considerable results and provided timely information on
project performance throughout implementation. Field data were collected on a regular basis,
collated, validated by URC and transmitted to the Central unit at CNC and the project M&E
reports published on a bi-yearly basis. In addition, a beneficiary impact assessment was carried
out at mid-term and at project completion and its results were analyzed in the overall assessment
of the project's outcome.

However, weak capacity at the Project Coordination Unit made it difficult for a comprehensive
analysis of the data gathered during project implementation. As a result of this shortcoming,
important information that would have fed into decision making during project implementation
were brought up only at later stages. For example, information on the (lack of) functionality of
infrastructures resulting from project investment at the local level, were not analyzed until
towards the end of project implementation, even though all the related data were available
throughout project implementation. In retrospect, the system designed for this project was
perhaps too complex, given the weak capacity available within the PCU and other
implementation units. The design of the second phase of the project took this lesson into
consideration and made the required adjustments to ensure that the capacity gap is filled therefore
to improve the performance of the project's robust monitoring and evaluation system.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Fiduciary Compliance. During the first year and half, the project struggled to comply with World
Bank procedures. The Bank's project team took a more pro-active approach starting in 2002,
leading to closer monitoring of the financial management performance. Following the recruitment
of a new highly qualified financial director in 2002, the project's financial management capacity
improved dramatically and maintained a satisfactory performance throughout project
implementation. All required bi-annual and annual financial reports were prepared and submitted
to the World Bank in a timely fashion. Since 2002, all financial and procurement audits, which
were carried out on a bi-annual basis, were unqualified. Procurement procedures used during
project implementation for the acquisition of goods and the recruitment of consultants were in
compliance with World Bank requirements.


                                                  6

At the local level, the project increased the procurement capacity of local governments
considerably. The project developed simplified procedures for local procurement and trained a
large number of local residents at the district/village level in basic procurement principles.
Through this process CRDs were able to recruit local entrepreneurs, control their work and hold
them accountable, leading to the successful implementation of several hundred of micro-projects,
through timely delivery, with quality and at costs that are acceptable compared to investments
financed by other sources of funding using different implementation procedures. Audits were
carried out on a random sample of CRD accounts each year. Very few problems were identified
and those that were, had to do with a lack of understanding of the procedures rather than misuse
of funds.

Safeguards Compliance. The project was rated as a category B project. An environmental
assessment (EA) was carried out and identified mitigation measures to treat possible negative
environmental impacts that may occur during the implementation of some micro-projects. Two
safeguard policies were triggered for the project at appraisal: (i) environmental assessment (OP
4.01) and (ii) natural habitats (OP 4.04). To guide environmental mitigation measures, an
Environmental Management Plan was prepared. In accordance with this plan an Environment
Mitigation Unit was established within DNGR, which carried out successfully all the
environmental requirements related to the project's components. In addition, CRDs were trained
in environmental management to ensure that environment impact mitigation measures were
incorporated into the CRD's investment plans.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Consistent with the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument adopted for the design of this
project, the first phase successfully initiated a process that established mechanisms for
decentralized decision-making and resource allocation and for strengthening local communities'
capacity to manage their own affairs.

Following successful completion and compliance with previously agreed triggers, the second
phase (2007-2011) was approved on August 14, 2007 and became effective on March 26, 2008.
In addition to the IDA grant (US$ 17 million), the second phase is co-financed from several other
sources including IFAD (US$10 million), the Global Environment Fund-GEF (US$17 million),
and AFD (US$10 million).

The design of the second phase builds on the successful achievements of the first phase and aims
to scale-up its activities nationwide to cover all 303 CRDs, ensuring the necessary synergy with
other stakeholders involved in local development and paving the way for a programmatic
approach.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project's development objectives, and corresponding project design are consistent with the
Government's strategic orientation with regard to decentralization and local governments,
namely: (i) to improve the institutional, regulatory and legal framework for decentralization and
local development; (ii) to promote effective partnerships for rural development; and (iii) to
establish a funding mechanism for the transfer of additional resources to rural communities.



                                                  7

At the local level, the project successfully demonstrated the use of participatory tools as a useful
strategy to improve governance while empowering the rural populations to take charge of their
own development. In addition to improving the administrative, financial and technical capacity of
local governments, the project also empowered the beneficiary communities to identify, plan and
implement their local development activities.

At the central level, the project provided the needed capacity to central level entities to initiate
additional activities to reinforce the existing framework for decentralization, leading to: (i) the
successful organization of the first local elections since 1992; (ii) the recent enactment by the
Government of the Code des Collectivités Locales. These outcomes make a strong case for the
relevance of this project to the Government's agenda on decentralization and local government.

The project's objectives and design remained relevant as evidenced in the Government's recent
PRSP, which is organized around: (i) sustainable fast economic growth and creation of income-
earning and employment opportunities, (ii) improvement and extension of access to basic services
and (iii) improvement of governance and strengthening of institutional and human capacity.
Finally, they also reflect the priorities of the Bank's CAS, which aims to: (i) promote sustainable
and equitable growth; (ii) improve the population's access to basic social services; and (iii)
enhance governance and human and institutional potential.

The close alignment of the Village Communities Support Project with GoG's priorities and the
Bank's strategic orientations positioned it as a conduit for cooperation between different donors
as evidenced by the co-financing by other development partners, including IFAD, AFD, and
ADF. It also led to the successful pilot partnership between the Compagnie de Bauxites de Guinée
(CBG) and the PACV whereby CBG would provide funds for investment in communities
surrounding its mining sites.

Finally, the PDO and design of the second phase largely built on the first phase, taking into
consideration lessons learned during the first phase and therefore making the necessary
adjustments to ensure that the overarching goal of the APL is on track.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project development objective was largely achieved and all triggers for moving to a second
phase were met. The assessment of the project's achievements is measured against the four key
performance indicators identified in the Project Appraisal Document and updated during the mid-
term review. Furthermore, it is substantiated by findings from a technical audit of project
financed micro-projects, a beneficiary impact study and a social capital study. The technical audit
confirms the overall quality of project-financed infrastructures and that they are generally
operational, even though there is a need for more awareness regarding maintenance.              The
beneficiary impact study and the social capital assessment highlight significant impacts in terms
of social capital building (organizational and capacity development, self confidence) and
improved access to social services.

        Central government agencies and decentralized services are effectively supporting
        local development efforts.           Progress towards developing effective central and
        decentralized services in support of local development is deemed satisfactory. At the
        national level, the National Directorate for Decentralization provided leadership and
        successfully carried out the necessary activities leading to the establishment of a
        comprehensive framework on decentralization. The first phase has had a strong impact
        on local governance, with local communities feeling increasingly empowered to hold


                                                   8

officials accountable for the efficient implementation of development activities.
Implementation of the project led to unprecedented cooperation between local
governments and decentralized entities and resulted in the involvement of the latter in the
planning process and in the implementation of micro-projects executed under CRD
authority. Collaboration between decentralized services and local governments improved
following intensive training of elected officials and decentralized civil servants, although
chronic budget issues made this collaboration, at times, less effective than planned.
Collection of the local development tax increased dramatically (in some cases by as much
as 50 percent) in response to the need to raise contributions for local development
activities funded by external financiers and the close involvement of beneficiaries in the
decision-making process.

Legal and regulatory framework for decentralized rural development is revised.
This outcome was fully achieved. Project activities carried out by the DND including
several studies and workshops on the existing framework led to the development,
adoption and enactment of a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework, the "Code
des Collectivités Locales".      This recently enacted code (May 2006) confirms the
Government's commitment to decentralization and provided a clear distribution of roles
and responsibilities between local governments, central level entities and deconcentrated
administrative and technical services. Building on the success of this project, the
implementation of the improved framework will undoubtedly consolidate gains achieved
during the implementation of this project and increase the chances for sustainability of
governance within rural communities in Guinea.

CRDs can plan, execute, maintain, and evaluate basic infrastructures and design
comprehensive Local Development Plans (LDP). This outcome was fully achieved.
With project assistance, CRDs demonstrated their ability to successfully carry out
participatory planning, define their own priority needs and execute activities to improve
their living standards. In all, 159 CRDs (versus the initial and revised targets of 70 and
100) developed participatory LDPs reflecting their priorities, and over half of the initial
LDPs have been updated, taking into consideration weaknesses identified in the initial
documents. Capitalizing on the lessons learned in the first phase, the Government of
Guinea facilitated the design of a participatory planning guide, which was adopted by all
donors intervening in local development in Guinea. The local development planning
process has become accepted by all development partners and the LDP is the unique
platform used by all stakeholders supporting local development activities.

Using the LDPs elaborated through participatory processes, CRDs also successfully
identified prioritized Annual Investment Programs and implemented nearly 1,100 micro-
projects, thereby demonstrating their ability to execute activities - including financial
management and procurement related activities - to fulfill their basic infrastructure and
service needs. Based on the findings of the final technical audit, which was carried out by
an independent consulting firm, the quality of these infrastructures were in conformity
with national norms and standards, and their cost generally lower than similar
infrastructures carried out through centrally planned sector projects (see Annex 3).

Improved access to socio-economic infrastructure. The first phase of the PACV
greatly improved the access of communities to basic social services, including health,
education, and potable water, with the construction of 475 classrooms, 228 health posts,
188 water holes. In addition, the first phase supported the establishment of 47 communal
forests. The rehabilitation of over 1735 km of feeder roads and the construction 85 km of


                                         9

        dirt roads and 182 meters of small bridges positively impacted access to markets and
        thereby provided a production incentive for local economies. According to the impact
        study carried out in 2005, the annual practicability of rehabilitated roads has improved
        from seven to twelve month a year, and vehicle traffic by a two-fold on average.

There are 19 intermediate outcome indicators for the achievement of the project development
objectives as stated in the Project Design Summary (see Annex 2 for details).

For the first component objective (to establish an effective and efficient mechanism for
transferring public funds to local communities for the financing of the prioritized rural
community infrastructures), the targets on all indicators were exceeded:

    · Contractual agreements signed with at least 100 CRDs. This indicator was revised
        upward from 70 to 100 during the mid-term review. By the end of the project, the actual
        number of CRDs with contractual agreements was 159.

    · At least 80% of the CRDs have raised their 20 percent community contribution. This
        indicator was exceeded. In total, 155 CRDs out of 159 (or 97%) raised their 20%
        contribution.

    · At least 60% of the CRDs manage micro-project funds in a transparent manner and
        according to defined procedures. This indicator was exceeded; 95% of CRDs managed
        funds in accordance with agreed procedures.

    · At least 70% of the CRDs have a maintenance fund established equivalent to 1% of the
        value of the micro-project. This indicator was exceeded. All CRDs mobilized 1% of the
        micro-project value for the maintenance.

    · At least 70% of the micro-projects identified in the annual investment program have been
        satisfactorily completed. This indicator was exceeded - 91% of the micro-projects have
        been satisfactorily completed.

    · At least 75% of the socio-economic infrastructures established under the original project
        prior to January 1, 2006 are fully functional and action plans are in place for the
        remaining 25%. This indicator, added for the additional financing grant, was exceeded -
        92% of the socio-economic infrastructures established prior to January 2006 are fully
        functional and an action plan is in place for the remainder.

Regarding the second component objective (to improve the regulatory, institutional, and fiscal
environment and develop local capacity for decentralized rural development), the intermediate
outcome indicators have been largely met and in some cases exceeded:

    · New legal and regulatory texts for decentralization have been drafted and submitted to
        the National Assembly for review. The government has successfully undertaken the
        necessary studies and consultations leading to the enactment of a comprehensive Code
        des Collectivités Locales, thereby establishing the new legal and regulatory framework.

    · At least 70% of the targeted central and decentralized institutions have received training
        specified in annual plans. Training requirements were identified each year. A total of
        71% of targeted institutions have received training.



                                                 10

    · The Decentralization Forum has been established. A national decentralization forum
        was established but is not fully functional.     A forum of CRD presidents has been
        established and held regular meetings annually since 2001.

    · At least 80% of institutions trained indicate that their understanding of decentralization
        issues and capacity to support CRDs has improved. According to the beneficiary survey
        95% of the individuals trained use the knowledge they acquired

    · At least 65% of targeted CRDs have received training according to the local training
        plan. All CRDs received the planned training and more than 14,000 persons were trained
        under the project.

    · At least 60% of the newly elected CRD presidents have been trained in the participatory
        local development process. This indicator was added for the additional financing grant.
        The successful organization of local elections in December 2005 led to substantial
        turnover in the community council presidents and membership. All newly elected CRD
        presidents received training.

    · Participating CRDs prepare diagnostics, local development plans, and annual investment
        programs in a participatory manner. All 159 participating CRDs successfully prepared
        diagnostics, local developments plans and annual investment programs in a participatory
        manner. The beneficiary impact assessment found that the participation of women and
        youth was very high during the local development planning process and that 68% of the
        women interviewed were satisfied with the process (felt their voices had been heard).

    · CRD community councils convene on a regular basis (4 sessions per year). According to
        figures from the beneficiary assessment, more than 80% of the CRDs hold four
        community councils a year.

    · Update of at least 75% local development plans that are over three years old. all local
        development plans were updated


Finally, regarding the third component objective (to rehabilitate and promote regular maintenance
of infrastructure and rural roads), performance has been in line or exceeded expectations also.
The project rehabilitated and maintained 1,734 km of roads against a target of 500 km and in
addition the following indicators were met:

    · A rural road maintenance strategy has been formulated and implemented. The new
        strategy was adopted by the Council of Ministers on November 6, 2003.

    · Support for rehabilitation (90km), spot improvement (150km) and maintenance of 500 km
        of roads. 85 km of roads were rehabilitated, spot improvements were done on 160km
        and 1,735 of roads were maintained with support from the project.

    · Locally selected villages road maintenance committees (CVEP) are established and
        operational in participating CRDs. In line with agreed targets, the project trained and
        equipped 250 CVEP.




                                               11

    · An environmental mitigation plan has been elaborated and implemented. The plan was
        elaborated and effectively guided road investments supported under the project.

3.3 Efficiency

Efficiency gains, due to increased relevance of investment decisions, were expected to be derived
from the decentralized decision-making and implementation process. Experience with investment
funds for decentralized rural development projects in Latin America and Asia has shown that
communities generally choose investments which can be expected to have a very high rate of
return, such as water supply, rehabilitation of roads and schools. In addition, decentralization of
decision-making not only creates incentives to keep investment costs low and the quality of
service delivery high, but also increases the likelihood of investment sustainability. Data collected
under Phase I show that the costs of primary school construction, for example, was about 19 %
lower than those constructed under the centralized national education program (see Annex 3 for
more details).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The project improved local governance and capacity by successfully introducing participatory
development processes, providing the opportunity for local governments to "learn by doing" and
to adjust practices over time. It also successfully improved the financing system for rural
communities, contributed to launching a new decentralization framework and reinforced citizens'
participation in the management of their community. Finally, the project tested a new financing
mechanism which served successfully to transfer resources to local governments. These resources
were used by beneficiary communities to provide much needed infrastructures thereby increasing
their access to basic socio-economic services.

Factors that kept the rating from being higher included: (i) Functionality of the infrastructure: the
Government's inability to provide the required staff (teachers, nurses) resulted in a small share of
the project infrastructures (8% of schools and health posts) remaining unused to-date; (ii)
Maintenance: despite the pro-active stance on this issue, maintenance remained the project's
Achilles heel. Even though provisions for 1% maintenance funds were made for all
infrastructures, the record on maintenance remained less than satisfactory; and (iii) Incomplete
infrastructures: for various reasons, a few of the infrastructures started with project financing
were not completed at project closing.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

In addition to the intended outcomes, the project had strong impacts on the communities'
awareness of their own potential to develop their community. Its implementation altered the
beneficiary communities' perception of their role in poverty alleviation efforts. The strong
participation of different groups within the community, including women, the youth and other
vulnerable groups in decision-making at the community level, was unprecedented and altered
gender relations. Even though the number of women elected to community councils remained
low, due primarily to sociological factors, their strong representation in the various committees




                                                 12

set up at the local level and their very high participation during the local planning process1
provided them with strong voice in the identification of the communities' priority needs.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The most lasting change brought about as a result of the implementation of PACV is the
institutional development at the national level and local level.

First, at the national level, through capacity building activities, the project supported public
institutions (DNGR and DND) that acquired the technical capacity to carry out project activities
and fulfill their core institutional mandates. During project implementation, DNGR successfully
carried out the rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance component of the project while
undertaking the necessary studies to establish a long-term strategy for rural roads maintenance at
the local level. The most important institutional achievement of the project at the national level is
the added capacity of the DND, one of the key players in project implementation, to carry out its
institutional mandates leading to the enactment of the Code des Collectivités Locales, a key
instrument for setting up an effective decentralization framework in Guinea. Finally, the recent
creation of a ministry in charge of local development and decentralization in Guinea is an
encouraging sign of the sustainability of the institutional gains achieved during project
implementation.

At the local level, the project strengthened institutional capacity of CRDs leading to improved,
technical and financial management of local governments. As the new participatory processes
introduced under the project became accepted as the "only game in town", the empowerment of
citizens and their involvement in decision-making at the local level improved local governance,
through participatory diagnosis, identification of needs and priority setting reflecting the needs
expressed by the majority of the population within the local communities. The participation of
women, the youth and other vulnerable groups, especially on local technical committees, was also
highly encouraged and provided the opportunity to these groups to express their views and take
an active part in the management and development of their own communities. Finally, the
recently held local elections saw a high turnover of the membership on the community councils,
and the emergence of new leadership within rural communities, a positive sign of growing
interest by residents in the life of their communities.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Donor harmonization and public-private partnerships: The project implementation resulted in
greater visibility of the Government's harmonization agenda. In addition to IDA, AFD, ADF and
IFAD co-financed this project, setting up an unprecedented framework for donors working on
improving coordination of development assistance to the Government of Guinea. The success of
this initiative led to important progress on harmonization of practices on local development.
During the project implementation, a mining company (Compagnie de Bauxite de Guinée -
CBG), entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Project Coordination Unit and
successfully provided funds through the operational mechanisms of PACV to carry out project
activities in three communities in its mining areas. Also, the implementation of this project led to
progress on sectoral coordination in Guinea, as evidenced by a Memorandum of Understanding


1According to the April 2005 impact evaluation report (page 33 to 35, p. 62, 63) 67% of women households
participated in the process and 68% were satisfied of their participation). The report also found that 73% of women
participated in the local committees and 50% of those benefiting from training programs were women.




                                                         13

between the education sector project "Education for All" (PEPT), which transferred parts of its
school construction budget to local governments and communities using PACV established
procedures. It is worth mentioning that these funds were successfully managed at the local level,
to the satisfaction of the financing entities (CBG and PEPT).

Economic opportunities and income diversification. The project had a strong impact on the local
private sector, as most of the entrepreneurs contracted for the implementation of the micro-
projects selected by the beneficiary communities were residents from or around these
communities. This provided opportunity for non-farmers to earn revenues or for farmers who
wish to do so, to earn additional revenues therefore diversifying the revenue base within the
community. The project also resulted in the creation of a more dynamic Small and Medium
Enterprises focusing on rural communities.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Risks to development outcome and sustainability of project achievements are assessed against
institutional, economic/financial, environmental and social criteria. Overall, risk to development
outcome is evaluated as moderate given: (i) the high ownership of project at all institutional
levels (by government and beneficiaries through their organizations), (ii) the economic and
financial risks linked to sustainability of the different investments, (iii) the relatively minor
negative environmental impacts associated with the kinds of implemented micro-projects and (iv)
the high social significance of project activities (targeting poverty issues, inclusion of vulnerable
groups, and balanced gender equity).

The risk to institutional development outcome is low. At the national level, the new Code des
Collectivités Locales adopted in May 2005 and the recent creation of a Ministry in charge of
decentralization and local development confirmed the Government's expressed strong
commitment to the decentralization process, and to local development. The implementation of
this project provided a much needed boost to national institutions, which successfully carried out
activities leading to the establishment of a national framework. The Code des Collectivités
Locales clearly defined roles and responsibilities for all stakeholders in local development.

Implementation of the new framework will enhance the institutional development outcome and
sustainability of the project. It will also enable better coordination among stakeholders at the
national and local levels. At the local level, the project successfully built the capacity of CRDs
and empowered them to carry out their own development through participatory processes,
therefore boosting their institutional development. Moreover, by ensuring greater participation of
the majority of the population, including women, the youth and other vulnerable groups, the
project empowered the communities to hold their local elected officials accountable, a key factor
in ensuring improved governance and services.

The risk to economic and financial development outcome is moderate. The economic and
financial sustainability of the project's investments would depend mainly on the ability of the
beneficiaries to maintain, and keep the infrastructures functional over time. This in turn depends
on: (i) the CRD's ability to mobilize their own revenues (taxes and other revenues), (ii) the
Government's ability to provide adequate staff to manage the social infrastructures (schools and
health centers); and (iii) the size of fiscal transfers from the central government. Given that the
beneficiaries have been given the responsibility for maintaining the investments within each
CRD, large efforts during project implementation included setting up operations and management


                                                  14

committees, training its members, and providing for 1% of the cost of every investment for the
purpose. Despite these arrangements, some of the investments are not being fully maintained, and
a few are not yet functional.

Second, even though the Government had not wavered on its commitment to the decentralization
agenda during project implementation, it had not always provided in a timely manner adequate
staffing for the social infrastructures built through project investment. Moreover, the
Government's inability to carry out its financial obligations to two major co-financing institutions
of this project (IFAD and ADF) led to the suspension of project activities on several occasions.
Finally, the country's current macro-economic performance did not provide optimism as to the
central government's ability to transfer adequate resources to CRDs to carry out, in addition to
investing in socio-economic activities, required maintenance work on the existing infrastructures
therefore to ensure their functionality, and ultimately the provision of basic service to the rural
poor.

The risk to the environmental development outcome is low. Given the demand-driven nature of
the project, the environmental impact is insignificant. Most infrastructures carried out during
project implementation had minimum to no environmental impact, However, an Environmental
Management Plan designed for the purpose of screening projects for potential impacts, was
successfully implemented at the local level, therefore ensuring that no project infrastructure had a
negative impact on the environment.

The risk to social development outcome is low. The project played a major role in creating social
capital in the targeted rural communities and strongly encouraged the participation of women,
youth and other vulnerable groups. However, traditional social structures continued to hamper
these positive developments, and women's participation in the decision-making process,
particularly their participation as elected members of the community councils remained to be
improved. The project's contribution to enabling full participation of all social groups in
planning, implementation and supervision of micro-projects created a positive dynamic for good
governance and social accountability in managing the local investment fund.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Even though there was no formal quality at entry assessment carried out for this project, the
rating is based on the project's consistency with the Government's orientation regarding
decentralization as expressed through the Decentralized Rural Development Policy Letter. The
project was also consistent with the Bank's CAS, which was oriented towards promoting broad-
based sustainable growth with a focus on the rural sector, improving social service delivery; and
enhancing governance and institutional capacity, with a strong emphasis on empowering citizens
to play a greater role in identifying, designing, and implementing community-level development
projects.

The project design incorporated lessons from community-development experience in the region
and from the pilot initiatives undertaken in five (5) rural communities in Guinea to test the
operational mechanisms for project implementation. The project's preparation team, which


                                                 15

comprised a rich pool of staff with cross sectoral mix of skills, undertook a comprehensive
diagnosis of the key development constraints and the appropriate measures to address them
successfully.

Given the complexity of the situation on the ground, the project sought to empower local
communities to undertake their own development through broad participation. Therefore, the
project design included a robust capacity building component to ensure that progressively, local
communities acquire the needed capacity to identify their needs and select the appropriate
services to address their needs. In addition, the project design opted for a strong role for existing
government institutions in project, therefore building their capacity to undertake the necessary
reforms to improve the operational framework for decentralization in Guinea. Finally, the Bank
demonstrated flexibility and willingness to work with other donors in the field, which resulted in
the participation of three additional donors as co-financiers (ADF, AFD and IFAD).

The QAE for the additional financing for this project rated the project quality at entry
Satisfactory. This demonstrated the soundness of project design, given the complexity of the
situation at the time and the innovative approach considered for its implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank carried out 17 supervision missions, including one a mid-term review, with an
appropriate mix of sectoral skills. The Bank's project task team emphasized capacity building and
training in areas such as operational, procurement, and financial management in order to address
key issues hampering implementation progress, including providing support to the technical
teams and NGOs supporting local communities. The Bank's proactive stance in monitoring
project performance resulted in the improvement of the project performance in all areas
especially after the MTR, which proved instrumental in tackling a number of project performance
issues, and during which important remedial actions were proposed and implemented. However,
there has been a high turnover of project task team leaders (three over the project's lifetime).
Even though the transition between project TTLs was generally smooth, the Bank's performance
was slowed by the absence, at different stages of the project, of key Banks staff within the
Country Office including a procurement specialist, a disbursement specialist and a rural
development specialist, who are all part of the core project supervision team. In addition, the
project supervision could have benefitted from a dedicated environmental specialist on the team.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Despite the challenges of designing and implementing a complex yet innovative project, the Bank
generally took a proactive role, took remedial actions when needed, and guided the project to a
successful completion, paving the way for the second phase to be launched.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                                 16

The Government's strong commitment to the PACV, which is a key instrument for advancing the
implementation of its decentralized rural development strategy, was fully displayed throughout
project preparation and implementation. The Project preparation benefitted from a high level
participation of Government staff. The Government provided its counterpart funding in a timely
manner and was on several occasions, prompt to take the necessary steps required for improving
project performance, including the appointment of key technical staff at DND, which was
instrumental to provide leadership within an institution, which had implementation
responsibilities over one of the most important component of the project.

However, politically instability within the country resulting from the civil wars in neighboring
countries, and inflation reduced the government's ability to allocate adequate resources for timely
organizing local elections, according to agreed timetable, and for staffing schools and health posts
constructed by local communities using project funding (at least 8% of schools and health posts
remain unstaffed).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

All project activities entrusted to the three implementation agencies including the National
Coordination Unit (CNC), the National Directorate for Rural Roads (DNGR, and the National
Directorate for Decentralization (DND) were successfully executed according to agreed
implementation procedures. The National Coordination Unit (CNC) and its Regional
Coordinating Units (URC) successfully carried out project coordination activities at the national
(CNC) and local level (URC) ensuring that project activities were carried out in line with
implementation procedures agreed between IDA and the GoG. The slow start of project activities
entrusted to DND were due mostly to lack of leadership and technical capacity within the
institution and to slow decision-making process. But once the Government took the appropriate
steps to correct the leadership problems, by appointing a more qualified and dynamic Director,
the situation stabilized and their performance improved dramatically. At the CNC, capacity
problems also slowed the pace of implementation until the mid-term review, when remedial
solutions were proposed including the creation of a new position and the recruitment of a
technical director.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Despite the adverse conditions on the ground including political instability, civil wars in
neighboring countries, and poor economic performance, the GoG stood firmly behind the project
and moved steadfastly to carry out the required legislative and administrative reforms required for
moving the decentralization agenda forward and meet the triggers for the second phase on the
program.

6. Lessons Learned

The major lessons drawn from the implementation and outcome of this project, as already
incorporated in the design and implementation arrangements for Phase II, can be summarized as
follows:




                                                17

Decentralization is a long-term and comprehensive effort that requires political support. The
major changes expected are likely to meet resistance from some institutions. Therefore
considerable effort is needed for new systems to be established and officials to be educated and
convinced to accept changes. To achieve successful decentralization, champions are required on
the community side to make pressure on the central government to relinquish authority and
undertake further reforms to lead to effective decentralization including fiscal decentralization.
On the Government's side, change agents with strong leadership and the right vision is required
to undertake the courageous reforms for effective decentralization.

Bottom-up approach is relevant to national development. The Village Communities Support
Project has shown that the planning process of Government needed to be modified to use a
bottom-up approach. The demonstration of this project that through bottom-up approach, i.e.
planning and implementing at the local level in line with the subsidiairity principle, development
objectives could be attained more rapidly than through the traditional top-down that failed to
yield considerable progress over the years. It appeared that the progress of this project altered the
Government's planning process as the Code des Collectivités Locales, recently enacted, provided
ample evidence of its commitment. In addition, the recent creation of a ministry in charge of
decentralization and local development confirmed the Government's choice and reflects the
importance of decentralization in the national development framework.

Sustainability depends on the degree to which the beneficiaries internalize the process. The
ability to continue the planning, implementation and monitoring of investments using
participatory processes depends on the continuing ability of local communities to raise funds and
maintain community mobilization. Therefore, the project's strong efforts on capacity building
activities resulted in the successful empowerment of local communities and demonstration of
their ownership of project activities leading to its successful implementation. In that regard,
continuous efforts to provide local communities with the necessary skills set to carry out their
own development remain a challenge that need to be addressed through government efforts.

Fiscal capabilities are critical to long-term viability of local governments. In order for
decentralization reforms to be sustainable, they need to be accompanied by effective fiscal
decentralization. While local governments have rights over some taxation schemes, the poverty
levels make it difficult for them to collect a substantial share of these revenues therefore limiting
them in their ability to undertake investment activities. Medium-term efforts should focus on
fiscal issues, including sustainable transfers from the central government.

Flexibility in setting up co-financing mechanisms would be a key factor in maintaining
momentum at the local level. Given that co-financing mechanisms had demonstrated that they
had the potential to adversely affect project implementation, initial discussions and eventually
final agreements on co-financing mechanisms should build-flexibility in their design, to ensure
that project activities do not come to a halt if one party temporarily suspends its funding for
project activities. Given that the mobilization of rural communities is a long process, once a
working relation is established and most of the populations are on board, a prolonged suspension
of project activities could have the unintended effect of discrediting the project, therefore losing
the momentum generated in the first place, which once lost, is difficult to gain back.




                                                  18

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower's completion report was received and relevant issues have been taken into account.
A summary of the report can be found in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers and other partners and stakeholders

IFAD's completion report was received and relevant information reflected in this document. A
summary of the IFAD report can be found in Annex 8. We have not yet received a copy of the
AFD completion report for project activities in the forest region of Guinea since the closing date
was extended to September 30, 2008. Results of AFD's recently completed social capital
assessment of project impact in the forest region were received on September 8, 2008 and are
summarized in Annex 5.




                                                19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component

                              Appraisal    Appraisal  Appraisal  Actual /
                              Estimate      Estimate  Estimate   Latest      Percen-

         Components            Total          IDA        IDA     Estimate    tage of

                               (USD          Credit    Grant      (USD       Appraisal

                              millions)      (USD       (USD                  IDA
                                            millions) millions)  millions)


1. Local Investment Fund           9.96          3.19       5.38     11.68        136


2. Support to the Local           10.53          5.79       0.79      4.28         65
Development Process

3. Maintenance and                11.06          7.74       0.00      9.93        128
Rehabilitation of Rural Roads

4. Project Coordination, M&E       5.66          3.62       0.83      5.70        128


   PPF                             1.49          1.49


Total Project Costs               38.70         21.83       7.00     31.59        110




(b) Financing
                                                                  Actual /
                                                      Appraisal    Latest
                                                      Estimate   Estimate     Percentage
                                                       (USD        (USD           of
        Source of Funds        Type of Financing      millions)  millions)    Appraisal
                               Credit and
International Development      Additional
Association (IDA)              Financing Grant             28.30       32.00         113
International Fund for
Agricultural Development       Pari-passu
(IFAD)                         financing                    7.00         7.38        105
Agence Française de
Développement (AFD)            Parallel financing           3.80         8.33        219
African Development Foundation
(ADF)                          Parallel financing           1.90         0.76         40
Government                     Counterpart funding          4.00         0.97         24
Local Communities              Contribution                 0.00         0.78
Total Project Costs                                        45.00       50.22         112




                                           20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Local Investment Fund (LIF)

Achievements under this component are rated satisfactory

This component was conceived as a mechanism for transferring funds to local communities to
finance priority community infrastructure micro-projects. It comprised two funding windows: a
Village Investment Fund (VIF) and an Innovation Fund. The VIF was oriented towards financing
a predetermined menu of basic social infrastructure such as education, health, drinking water and
sanitation facilities, and village access roads on a demand-driven basis.

The project exceeded agreed targets of this component by far. The participatory approach by the
project empowered the beneficiaries in terms of selection and management of investments.
Likewise, the transfer of resources and devolution to the CRDs of responsibilities to plan and
implement their own development programs aroused keen interest right at the start of the project.

The project signed development agreements (awareness creation, training and community
infrastructure construction of up to US$ 50,000 per CRD) with 159 CRDs instead of the 70
planned. On 31 December 2007, the CRDs had built and equipped 475 schools, and 228 health
posts or centers, drilled 188 wells and water points, built 91 small bridges and community roads,
developed 47 community forests (205 hectares in all), constructed 21 markets and 5 literacy
centers, and others. As required by the PAD, all CRDs provided 5% of the cost of a micro-project
and the communities mobilized 15% in kind or cash. According to audits of the project, the funds
were transferred to the CRDs in a transparent manner. The engineers recruited by the CRDs under
the project financing supervised the micro-projects; the prefectures' control ensured that
investments consistently complied with norms.          The decentralized approach reinforced the
credibility of the CRDs and further empowered the citizens. The investments were managed by
the CC through committees composed of micro-project beneficiaries, with equal participation by
women and youth. Through these committees, the CRDs selected the contractors, supervised the
works and ensured infrastructure maintenance.

The project launched four pilot income-generating activities, which were not successful and their
design seemed complex. As a result, during the project Mid-Term Review (MTR), the bank and
the Government decided to drop this window until the second phase of the program.

As required by the PAD, the project and its beneficiaries used the annual review workshops to
improve implementation of procedures. As a result, the Operational Manual was updated twice
between 2000 and 2005 and then in 2006 and in 2007.

Implementing the planning and decentralized execution of project within CRD was a first in
Guinea and the sub-region, and therefore was unchartered territory to venture into. However,
through a "learning by doing" approach, CRDs managed successfully the challenges posed by
such adventure. The initial delays encountered in project implementation at the local level,
including the time lapse between the availability of funds and the completion of works, 217 days
in 2000, decreased to 131 days in 2003 and dropped to 90 days in 2004. Temporary suspension
of the AFD credit in March 2002 and that of IFAD on two occasions were offset by savings made
in expenses incurred for CNC activities. The difficulties faced by CRDs to provide their own
required counterpart contributions were overcame when government, on the initiative of the
project, transferred the entire local development minimum tax Contributon au développement



                                                  21

local (CDL) to the CRDs, and other CRDs took their own initiative to increase the CDL from
GNF3,000 to GNF5,000. Finally, the quality of investments improved over time as the CRDs
gained experience in works supervision.

Component 2: Support for Local Development

Achievements under this component are rated Satisfactory

The second component was meant to: (i) provide support to the CRDs; (ii) improve legislation
and regulations on decentralization and their implementation; (iii) enhance fiscal and financial
decentralization; (iv) build capacities at the devolved national level; and (v) provide information
and communication on the project's activities. This component experienced start-up difficulties,
which led to temporary suspension of its activities in 2001. Change of DND staff responsible for
the component in 2002 and transfer of approval responsibility of AIPs to the URC and the
provincial authorities improved its operation. All six targets under this component were
eventually achieved.

Support to CRDs. The support to CRDs was to improve the capacity of villagers and their
organizations to take charge of their own development. The project financed awareness-creation
and training sessions for over 15,000 CRDs citizens involved in rural development (elected
representatives of the civil society, decentralized and devolved services staff, representatives of
women and youth). To support the CRDs, in 2002, the project recruited consultants that it
constituted into 67 multi-disciplinary mobile teams composed of 3 persons with university degree
diploma unemployed at the time of recruitment and 2 staff from the Prefectures, to support local
communities in planning their local development. At the end of the process, it recruited and
trained over 450 Village Outreach Facilitators (Animateurs Villageois-AV), three per community,
who jointly with 87 Community Development agents (Agents de Development Communautaires)
(ADCs), to provide technical support to CRD and facilitate the process forward, Village Outreach
Facilitators were recruited among local residents and provided services on a voluntary basis.
ADCs were recruited among the members of the mobile teams, recommended by the Community
council. They were recruited for the project's life and remunerated by the project.

To consolidate the gains of the training, in 2004 and 2005, the project organized two forums to
exchange experiences which led to the establishment in May 2005 of an officially recognized
association of CRD presidents. The association is expected to launch a work program in 2008.

Participatory community diagnostics and local development plans. The project's support enabled
all beneficiary CRDs to prepare Participatory Community Diagnostics (DPCs), leading to the
drafting of Local Development Plans (LDPs) and Annual Investment Plans (Plans Annuels
d'Investissement­PAI), set up operational technical committees for contracts awarding, works
monitoring and infrastructure managing. The ability of CRDs to conduct DPCs, prepare LDPs
and PAIs and execute the project without interference from the central administration have
changed the relationship between the citizens and the local authority from one of dependence to
that of partnership. Government and other donors alike are now in the process of recognizing
LDPs prepared by local government as their consolidated development program to be
implemented in partnership with all local level stakeholders.

Improving the institutional and legal framework. In a bid to improve the existing laws and
regulations, DND, together with decentralization experts, reviewed more than 80 legislative texts
on decentralization and set forth the new distribution of resources, skills and powers between the
State and local authorities. The findings were validated and consolidated at the national level as a


                                                 22

Code on Local Authorities. The draft was submitted to government and then in May 2006 ratified
by the National Assembly as the Law on the Association and Cooperative Scheme.

Enhancing fiscal decentralization. The project financed a study on taxation which led to several
proposals for establishing an improved local tax system. Project implementation also led to a
considerable improvement in the tax revenue collection for local governments. Since 2000, tax
revenue collected by the CRDs, and since 2001, 80% of the value of local taxes and licenses
collected, has remained within the community. Revenue from CDL is entirely distributed locally
(75% for CRDs, 15% for the district administration and 10% for the sub-prefect). The recovery
rate within the CRDs covered by the project currently stands at close to 100%.

Capacity building at the national level. The project has provided training to 1,284 managerial
staff At DND and Direction Nationale de l'Administration Territoriale (DNAT). The training has
covered regional and prefectoral directors of planning and those in charge of local governments,
budget and tax sections as well as local governments' secretaries (Secrétaires Communautaires).
It also financed the procurement of vehicles, offices equipments and supplies for DND ­ one in
Conakry and four in the field. Finally, a Decentralization Observatory, expected to be set up
before project completion, did not materialize because its establishment took longer than planned.
However, an ad hoc observatory committee was appointed and a 3 years (2006-2008)
implementation plan drafted.

Information and communication. The project's workshops and presentations have received wide
media coverage, making it well-known in Guinea. As a result of the successful promotion of
decentralization within rural communities, the project is highly appreciated by the villages and
the outcomes of its activities are often covered by radio and television. The government considers
PACV I as a source of national pride.

Component 3: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads

Achievements under this component are rated Satisfactory

This component aimed to improve access of isolated rural communities to the national road
network and establish a sustainable rural roads management and maintenance system. Activities
under this component included: (i) formulating a roads management and maintenance strategy,
including establishing and supporting the CVEPs, (ii) ensuring the efficient rehabilitation,
periodic maintenance and critical spot improvement of priority rural roads, and (iii) providing
institutional support to the National Directorate for Rural Engineering (DNGR); as a result, the
DNGR established a Maintenance and Community Support Division and Environmental
Mitigation Unit.

The component exceeded agreed target for rural roads construction, set up 250 CVEPs and
provided the support to DNGR as called for in the design of the project. However, the quality of
maintenance carried out by the CVEPs has not yet been evaluated. DNGR maintained 1,734.5 km
of tracks (instead of 500 km), rehabilitated 84.5 km of roads (instead of about 90 km), carried out
critical spot improvement of 170 km and built 182 meters of small bridges. Priority was given to
the roads featured in the LDPs; environmental aspects were taken into account. The project
organized and equipped 250 CVEPs and trained 1,491 of their members. The new CVEPs were
responsible for maintenance of 3,558 km of tracks. The project financed the formulation of the
rural road network management strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers in November 2004,
preparation of a database and an organizational audit of DNGR. As planned, the project financed
the procurement by DNGR of vehicles, offices equipments and supplies for the central office in


                                                 23

Conakry and four field offices. Starting from 2006, project activities were discontinued for this
component as a result of the effectiveness of the newly financed National Rural Infrastructure
Project Phase II (PNIR2), which took over rural road rehabilitation and capacity building for road
network management and maintenance.

Component 4: Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation

Achievements under this component are rated Satisfactory

This component ensured project coordination, oversight, and financial management which
included establishing and operating a National Coordination Unit (CNC) and the regional Units (
URCs and establishing and operating the overall M&E system. Project management and
coordination were Satisfactory. Oversight of the project was entrusted to the PSC composed of
representatives from the MATD, MAEF, MTP, Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, the
Ministries of Fisheries, Health, Education, Economy and Finance, CNC, coordinators of project
components and URCs, and, occasionally, other ministries, civil society and representatives of the
CC presidents.

During the first three years of operation, political interference affected staff recruitment However,
the situation improved thereafter and became satisfactory. Initially CNC was short on technical
staff, resulting in work overload. In 2004, a Director of Operations position was created and a
competent staff recruited for the position, therefore improving CNC's technical capacity to
handle its assigned responsibilities. The project financed two independent evaluations of its
impact on beneficiaries. An in-depth evaluation was carried out during the project's mid-term
review and during the last supervision mission. In 2002, the project set up an M&E unit, which
operated as a network shared between CNC, URCs, DND and DNGR. Since 2002, CNC unit had
managed the database, gathered and disseminated the required project information, and prepared
work plans, biannual and annual reports. Despite several issues faced, project implementation
was successful and the delivered outputs provide an adequate picture of project performance and
impacts.




                                                  24

               Appendix 1, Annex 2: Progress on Key Performance Indicators

                                                Performance Indicators            Status as of December 31, 2007


                                       Centralized government agencies and       Satisfactory progress
                                       decentralized services are effectively
Project Objectives:                    supporting local development efforts
Set up and operationalize an effective
and efficient, decentralized system    Legal and regulatory framework for        Achieved: The Code des
                                       decentralized rural development is        Collectivités Locales - a new
for local development                  revised                                   comprehensive legal and
Increase access of rural population to                                           regulatory framework was enacted
basic infrastructure and services                                                in June 2006.

                                       CRDs plan, execute, maintain, and         Achieved: 159 CRDs developed
                                       evaluate basic infrastructures, and can   participatory LDPs and prioritized
                                       design comprehensive Local                annual investment programs. All
                                       Development Plans (LDP)                   LDPs drafted prior to 2003 were
                                                                                 updated. A total of 1084 micro-
                                                                                 projects have been completed by
                                                                                 the participating communities.

                                       Improved access to basic infrastructure   Achieved: 475 classrooms, 228
                                       in rural areas                            health posts, and 188 water holes
                                                                                 were constructed. In addition,
                                                                                 1735 km of priority rural roads
                                                                                 were maintained, and 85 km of
                                                                                 dirt roads plus 182 meters of
                                                                                 small bridges constructed (annual
                                                                                 practicability of rehabilitated
                                                                                 roads has improved from seven to
                                                                                 twelve month a year)

                                       Contractual agreements signed with at     Agreements signed with 159
                                       least 100 CRDs                            CRDs
Project Components:

1) Local Investment Fund:              At least 80% of the CRDs have raised      Achieved: in total 155 CRDs out
                                       their 20 percent community contribution   of 159 (or 97%) raised their 20%
                                                                                 contribution.

          Village Investment Fund      At least 60% of the CRDs manage           Achieved: as reflected by results
          and Innovation Support       micro-projects in a transparent manner    of audit reports; 95% of CRDs
          Fund set-up and operating    and according to defined procedures.      manage funds in accordance with
                                                                                 agreed procedures.

                                       At least 70% of the CRDs have a           Achieved: all CRDs mobilized
                                       maintenance fund established equivalent   1% of the micro-project value for
                                       to 1% of the value of the micro-project   the maintenance.

                                       At least 70% of the micro-projects        Achieved: 91% of all 704 micro-
                                       identified in the annual investment       projects successfully implemented
                                       program have been satisfactorily
                                       completed.

                                       At least 75% of the socio-economic        Achieved: 92% of the socio-
                                       infrastructures established under the     economic infrastructures
                                       original project prior to January 1, 2006 established prior to January 2006
                                       are fully functional and action plans are are fully functional and an action
                                       in place for the remaining 25%.           plan is in place for the remainder.

                                       New legal and regulatory texts for        Achieved: the government has
                                       decentralization have been drafted and    successfully undertaken the
2) Support to Local Development        submitted to the National Assembly for    necessary studies and
                                       review.                                   consultations leading to the



                                                          25

                                                                                enactment of a comprehensive
·   Overall policy, legal, fiscal and                                           Code des Collectivités Locales,
    institutional frameworks                                                    thereby establishing the new legal
    strengthened to enable                                                      and regulatory framework.
    decentralization



·   Capacity of key ministries,       At least 70% of the targeted central and  Achieved: 71% of targeted central
    governmental institutions, and    decentralized institutions have received  and de-concentrated institutions
    regional authorities improved to  training specified in annual plans.       have received training
    support decentralization
                                      Decentralization forum established and    Achieved: forum established and
                                      functioning effectively                   functioning satisfactorily. Forum
                                                                                of CRD presidents was held
                                                                                annually starting in 2001.

·   Capacity of CRDs, local           At least 80% of institutions trained      Achieved: according to the
    institutions, and communities     indicate that their understanding of      beneficiary survey 95% of the
    strengthened to identify, plan,   decentralization issues and capacity to   individuals trained use the
    implement, evaluate, and          support CRDs has improved.                knowledge they acquired
    maintain basic infrastructure
    and services                      At least 65% of targeted CRDs have        Achieved: 100% of participating
                                      received training according to the local  CRDs received planned training
                                      training plan.                            (more than 14,000 persons were
                                                                                trained in total).

                                      At least 60% of newly elected presidents  Achieved: 100% of newly elected
                                      in targeted CRDs trained in participatory presidents trained
                                      local development processes

                                      Participating CRDs prepare diagnostics,   Achieved: all 159 CRDs prepared
                                      local development plans, and annual       diagnostics, local development
                                      investment programs in a participatory    plans and annual investment
                                      manner.                                   plans.

                                      CRD community councils convene on a       Achieved: more than 80% of the
                                      regular basis (4 sessions per year).      CRDs hold four community
                                                                                councils a year.

                                      Update of at least 75% local              Achieved: all local development
                                      development plans that are over three     plans were updated
                                      years old

                                      A rural road maintenance strategy has     Achieved: adopted by Council of
                                      been formulated and implemented.          Ministers on November 6, 2003
3) Maintenance and Rehabilitation of
Rural Roads                           Support for rehabilitation (90km), spot   Achieved: 85 km of roads
                                      improvement (150km) and maintenance       rehabilitated, spot improvement
                                      of 500 km of roads.                       on 160km and 1,735 of roads
·   Environment-friendly rural                                                  maintained.
    roads renovation and              Locally selected maintenance              Achieved: 250 established and
    maintenance program being         committees are operational in             functional
    executed locally                  participating communities

                                      An environmental mitigation plan has      Achieved
                                      been elaborated and implemented




                                                         26

               Appendix 2, Annex 2: Triggers for transition from Phase I to Phase II


                   Indicators                                                     Status


1. LIF disbursements are at least 65 % of the    On December 31, 2005 LIF disbursement rate was 98%.
planned level (rate revised to 55% at MTR)       As of September 2006, the LIF disbursement rate for the additional
                                                 financing grant approved in January 2006 was 76%.

2. 60% of approved micro projects have been      100 % of all micro projects (aside from village wells) were successfully
successfully completed                           completed.
                                                 Only 63% of village wells were successfully completed. Construction
                                                 of village wells was suspended in 2005 pending results of an in-depth
                                                 analysis to identify the cause of the problems. Financing resumed in
                                                 2006, following completion of the analysis and revision of the local
                                                 implementation manual for village wells.

3. The project implementation manual has         The PIM was revised in September 2001 and again in May 2002 in order
been revised on the basis of an evaluation and   to adapt it to the concerns of the beneficiaries and the field realities.
a social assessment carried out by the end of    The M&E manual, which is an integral part of the PIM, was revised to
year 3                                           make it more operational and local level data collection instruments
                                                 were re-examined and improved.
                                                 A community procurement manual was prepared and distributed.

4. The key policies of decentralization and      A finance law relating to the distribution of the local development tax
fiscal transfers are adopted by the National     was adopted in 2000. The law abolishes the principle of splitting the
Assembly and are being implemented               local development tax (a head tax) between the devolved administrative
                                                 structures and the decentralized community structures -- 100% of the tax
                                                 now goes to the CRDs.
                                                 Nomenclature budgétaire has been revised.
                                                 Code des collectivités locales which details the new legal framework for
                                                 decentralization was adopted by the National Assembly in May 2006.

5. Adequate mechanisms were established to       The draft `Décret portant réorganisation des circonscriptions
regulate conflicts between local and central     territoriales' and the draft `Décret déterminant les conditions de
authorities                                      nomination et les attributions des autorités des circonscriptions
                                                 territoriales' were prepared.
                                                 New laws on the organization and participation of civil society
                                                 organizations (law on the regime of associations and law on economic
                                                 groupings, mutuelles, and cooperatives) were adopted in 2005.
                                                 A study for the establishment of an 'Observatoire de la
                                                 décentralisation' was completed.
                                                 The electoral code was updated and adopted in August 2005.

6. 70% of participating CRDs have received       100% of the CRD covered by the project benefited from trainings on the
the planned training                             following topics: animation, decentralization, literacy, simplified
                                                 management, procurement.

7. Local elections have been held in a fair and  Multi-party local level elections were held on December 18, 2005.
free manner


8. MID has been reorganized                      The MATD (former MID) was reorganized to create a local
                                                 development division at the central level and a regional local
                                                 development representation (SERRACCO).

9. 75% of rural roads treated are regularly       100% of rural roads rehabilitated by the PACV1 are being regularly
maintained                                        maintained by the CVEP (Comité villageois d'entretien des pistes).




                                                       27

   Appendix 3, Annex 2: Agreed Changes/Clarifications in Performance Indicators during
                                           Project Implementation


                             From Project Appraisal          Final Results Framework
                                     Document                        Indicators                  Comments



Project Development Objective Indicators


                                                            Centralized government
                                                            agencies and decentralized
Project Objectives:      Centralized government agencies
                         and decentralized services are     services are effectively      No change
Set up and               effectively supporting local       supporting local
operationalize an        development efforts                development efforts
effective and efficient,
decentralized system
for local development    Additional CRDs are prepared
                         for mobilization under an                                        Indicator dropped at

Increase access of rural eventual Phase II                                                MTR

population to basic
infrastructure and                                          CRDs plan, execute,
                         CRDs plan, execute, maintain,
services                                                    maintain, and evaluate basic
                         and evaluate basic                 infrastructures, and can
                         infrastructures, and can design    design comprehensive Local    No change
                         comprehensive Local                Development Plans
                         Development Plans

                         Improved access by roads to rural  Improved access to basic
                         area, increased reliability of     infrastructure in rural areas Indicator modified at
                         feeder road system, and reduced                                  MTR
                         transportation costs

                                                            Legal and regulatory
                                                            framework for decentralized   Indicator added at MTR
                                                            rural development is revised

Intermediate Outcome Indicators


Project Components:      Contractual agreement signed       Contractual agreement
                         with 70 CRDs                       signed with 100 CRDs          Target revised at MTR
1) Local Investment
Fund:
                         CRDs successfully raise the 20%    80% of CRDs successfully      Target added at time of
                         local community contribution       raise the 20% local
                                                            community contribution        additional financing

     Village
     Investment Fund                                        60% of CRDs manage
                         Funds are passed in a transparent
     and Innovation                                         micro-project funds in a
                         and timely manner to the local
     Support Fund set-                                      transparent manner and
                         level, and from local level to                                   Indicator revised and
     up and operating                                       according to the defined
                         contractors, for approved                                        target added at MTR
                                                            procedures
                         community activities


                         CRDs successfully complete         CRDs successfully

                         micro-projects identified in their complete 70% of micro-        Target added at MTR
                         annual investment program          projects identified in their
                                                            annual investment program

                         Maintenance fund equivalent to     70% of CRD's have

                         1% of the value of the completed   established a maintenance     Target added at time of
                         micro-projects established in      fund equivalent to 1% of the  additional financing
                         participating CRDs                 value of the completed
                                                            micro-projects established



                                                          28

                                                            in participating CRDs

                                                            75% of local development
                                                            plans over three years old     Indicator added at time

                                                            that have been updated         of additional financing

                                                            75% of pre-2006 project
                                                            financed socio-economic        Indicator added at time
                                                            infrastructure fully           of additional financing
                                                            functionally

2) Support to Local    Review of decentralization's legal   New legal and regulatory       Indicator revised at
Development            and regulatory texts completed       texts for decentralization are MTR
                       by mid-term and changes              completed and submitted to
·   Overall policy,    promulgated by end of project        the National Assembly for
    legal, fiscal and                                       review
    institutional
    frameworks         New system for fiscal transfers,                                    Indicator dropped at
    strengthened to    and local collection of tax                                         MTR
    enable             collection and utilization is tested
    decentralization
                       Laws, decrees, other texts on                                       Indicator dropped at
                       decentralization translated into                                    MTR
                       local languages, distributed and
                       explained to prefectures and
                       CRDs

·   Capacity of key    Training to strengthen capacity of   70% of targeted central and    Indicator modified and
    ministries,        national, regional and               deconcentrated institutions    target added at MTR
    governmental       decentralized services is provided   who have received planned
    institutions, and  based on continuous skill-gap        training
    regional           analysis
    authorities
    improved to        Decentralization forum               Decentralization forum         No change

    support            established and functioning          established

    decentralization   effectively

                       DNGR maintenance unit                                               Indicator dropped at
                       restructured and MID agencies                                       MTR
                       responsible for decentralization
                       rationalized

                       Quality and timely provision of      80% of institutions trained    Indicator modified at
                       support by decentralized services,   who feel their understanding   MTR and target added
                       prefectures, and CRDs for local      of decentralization issues
                       development are improved             and capacity to support
                                                            CRDs has improved

·   Capacity of        Training to strengthen local         Percent of targeted CRDs       Indicator modified at
    CRDs, local        capacity provide, based on           who have received training     MTR and target added
    institutions, and  continuous skill-gap analysis        according to the local
    communities                                             training plan
    strengthened to
    identify, plan,    Community fora convene               CRD community councils         Indicator modified and

    implement,         regularly, and maintain              convene on a regular basis     target added at MTR

    evaluate, and      transparent records of their         (at least four sessions per

    maintain basic     deliberations                        year)

    infrastructure and Participating CRDs prepare           Participating CRDs prepare     No change
    services           diagnostics and annual               diagnostics, local
                       investment programs in               development plans and
                       participatory manner                 annual investment programs
                                                            in participatory manner

                       Participatory tool for Local                                        Indicator dropped at
                       development planning                                                MTR



                                                         29

                        designed/tested

                                                         60% of newly elected          Indicator added at time
                                                         presidents in targeted CRDs   of additional financing
                                                         trained in the participatory
                                                         local development process

3) Maintenance and      Rural road maintenance strategy  Rural road maintenance        No change
Rehabilitation of Rural formulated and implemented       strategy formulated and
Roads                                                    implemented

·   Environment-        Contractors will rehabilitated   90 km of dirt roads           No change
    friendly rural      90km; they will also spot        rehabilitated, 150 km of
    roads renovation    improve 150 km and maintain      critical spots treated and
    and maintenance     500 km of priority feeder roads  500 km of priority rural
    program being       per year                         roads maintained
    executed locally
                        Locally selected maintenance     Locally selected              No change
                        committees are operational in    maintenance committees are
                        participating communities (250)  operational in participating
                                                         communities (250)

                                                         An environmental              Indicator added at MTR
                                                         mitigation plan has been
                                                         elaborated and is being
                                                         implemented for the roads
                                                         component




                                                       30

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Overview

Because of the demand-driven, dispersed and flexible nature of its activities, the project did not
lend itself to the standard quantitative cost-benefit or least-cost analysis. The ex-ante economic
analysis was therefore couched largely in qualitative terms.            However, it is possible to
demonstrate: (a) the likelihood of long-term economic benefits due to the improved access to
socio-economic infrastructure; and (b) that compared with alternative approaches, the approach
adopted by the project improved the cost-efficiency and likely sustainability of the investments
and activities undertaken.

The distribution of investments under Phase I is presented in the Table 1 below. The bulk of the
investments were for social infrastructure (65%) and water supply (17%).

                   Table 1: Sectoral composition of infrastructure investments




                                                                  Number of    Share in total
                            Sub-Project Category                  investments   portfolio
          Water supply                                               188           17

          Social infrastructure                                      708           65




            Classrooms and teacher housing                           475           44
            Literacy centers                                           5
            Health centers & equipment                               228           21


          Community road infrastructure (small bridges and dirt       91            8
          roads)

          Community market infrastructure                             21            2

          Community forests                                           47            4
          Other                                                       29            3

          Total                                                      1084          100



A cost effectiveness analysis is more appropriate for these types of investments because either the
benefits cannot be measured fully in monetary terms or the measurement is difficult and can only
be done over a very long term. A comparison of unit costs was carried out as during the
preparation of the second phase of the PACV and is presented in Table 2 below.                While
comparative data is scant and often difficult to standardize across highly variable investments, an
initial indication shows that PACV unit costs were between 3 and 124 percent of sectoral
comparators, with the largest efficiency gains in social infrastructure.




                                                   31

                    Table 2: Comparative unit costs of selected infrastructure investments


                                                                   ECOLE/b                               POSTE DE SANTE/f                  POINTS D'EAU POTABLE
                                                     PACV/a          PEPT      PDSD (BAD)         PACV            MIS/g         PDSD            PACV         PDSD
COUTS DIRECT
   DAO, études, supervision contrôle, formation       8 024 244     12 000 000   28 350 000       3 804 000     20 480 400     14 760 000       2 824 445    3 150 000
   Réalisation des travaux                          168 588 778 200 000 000 315 000 000         75 446 000 184 323 600 164 000 000            56 018 155    35 000 000
 S/total                                           176 613 022 212 000 000 343 350 000          79 250 000 204 804 000 178 760 000            58 842 600    38 150 000
COUTS INDIRECTS
   coût suivi de travaux/c                            3 371 776      1 200 000                    1 505 750                                     1 140 000
   coût suivi, formation, conseil                         58 333       900 000                      23 775                                          17 400
   Entretien/d                                                                     3 150 000                                    1 640 000                      350 000
 S/total                                              3 430 109     2 100 000     3 150 000      1 529 525                      1 640 000      1 157 400       350 000
Total                                               180 043 131 214 100 000 346 500 000         80 779 525 204 804 000 180 400 000            60 000 000    38 500 000
Coût en USD/e                                             30 007         35 683        57 750       15 241          34 134         30 067           10 000      10 267
Ecart des coûts (% par rapport coût PACV)                                  19%          92%                           124%           97%                           3%


a/ : DAO, études, supervision et formation assurés par Ingénieur conseil pour le PACV, par un bureau d'étude pour le PEPT et le PDSD
b/ : une école de 3 classes, 1 bureau, 1 magasin, 2 blocs de lattrines à 3 cabines, 1 puits d'eau amélioré, 1 lot de fournitures scolaires et 1 lot d'équipements
c/ : suivi des travaux par le SPD, l'ADC et les comités villageois pour le PACV, par l'Antenne régional et le niveau central du programme pour le PEPT,
d/ : Entretien n'est financé que par le PDSD qui par ailleurs ne prévoit pas de suivi des travaux
e/ : 1 USD = 6 000 GNF octobre 2006; 5 300 GNF en juin 2006; 3 750 GNF en octobre 2005
f/ : un poste de santé comprend : 1 bâtiment de 5 salles, 1 lot d'équipements minimun, 1 lot de médicaments de première nécessité.
g/ : MIS = Mistère de la Santé, Division des infrastructures



Sub-sector analysis

Water supply. Access to clean water improves the health of rural population and reduces time
spent (especially by women) in collecting water. The benefits of improved water supplies
(quantity and quality) on health outcomes are well documented. These health benefits in turn lead
to labor productivity and income gains via a variety of direct and indirect pathways.

Education. Social rates of return of education estimated for neighboring countries found a rate of
return of 20.1 percent for primary education, 14.9 percent for secondary and 21.3 percent for
higher education.2 Private returns to schooling were estimated in 2003 at 9.1 percent for primary,
15.3 percent for secondary and 20.7 percent for higher education.3 Given the high positive
externalities associated with a literate population, including reductions in family size as girl's
education attainment rises and a more informed citizenry, the Government has adopted the
Education for All and MDG goals of 100 percent primary school completion. A cost-efficiency
analysis based on infrastructure comparative costs carried out indicates high efficiency gains for
PACV's education sector investments with unit costs 19% lower than other similar investments
carried out under the Education for All initiative (see table above).

Health. Economic benefits from health investments are well-documented: the direct impacts of
increased labor productivity and avoidance of the potential death of productive family members.
Health shocks to the household are closely related to predict future poverty. And indirectly, better
health results in fewer days lost to schooling, higher birth weights of newborns and so on. A cost-
efficiency analysis based on infrastructure comparative costs indicates high efficiency gains for


2 Pscharopoulos and Woodhall « Education for Development: An Analysis of Investment Choices", World Bank 1985.

3 Kazianga, H. « Schooling Returns for Wage Earners in Burkina Faso: Evidence from the 1994 and 1998 Priority
Surveys", 2003.




                                                                                 32

PACV's health sector investments with unit costs 97 to 124% lower than similar investments
carried out under the Health Ministry or other projects (see table above).

Maintenance and rehabilitation of rural roads: Most road investments were small-scale
rehabilitations and upgrading of existing rural feeder roads. Better roads will increase access to
markets and social services, such as health and education and reduce transport time and cost for
villagers. Better access to markets will generate economic benefits from market transactions;
access to social services increases productivity, which in turn contributes to increased income.

Other economic benefits: The Project contributed to employment and income generation in rural
areas: (i) directly, through improvement of the productive capacity of the natural resource base
and involvement of local artisans and village workers in the construction of basic infrastructure
funded under the LIF; and ii) indirectly, through the new and/or additional economic
opportunities generated by road improvement and improved capacity for economic activity due to
better health and water supply.




                                                 33

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                       Title               Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending

Bachir Souhlal         Lead Social Development
                       Specialist                              Team Leader

Mohammed Bekhechi      Senior Counsel                    LEGEN Senior Counsel
Mathurin Gbetibouo     Agricultural Economist            LCCHT Agricultural Economist
Alexandra Goffin       Task Team Assistant
Suzanne Holste         Infrastructure Specialist               Insfrastructure Specialist
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi       Senior Counsel                    LEGAF Senior Counsel
Sylvie Marzin          Country Portfolio Manager (IFAD)

Suzanne Piriou-Sall    Rural Development Specialist            Decentralization/local
                                                               development
Robert Robelus         Environmental Specialist          AFTEN Environmental Specialist
Guillemette Rohan      Task Team Assistant                     Task Team Assistant

Josef Toledano         Agricultural Services Specialist        Agricultural Services
                                                               Specialist
Lucie Tran             Operations Officer                 AFT  COSTAB Specialist

David Webber           Sr Financial Management                 Financial Management and
                       Specialist                        LOAFC Disbursement

Supervision/ICR
Jane C. Hopkins        Sr. Agricultural Economist        AFTAR TTL (2006-2007)
Abdoulaye Toure        Sr. Rural Development Specialist  AFTAR TTL (2004-2005)
Suzanne Piriou-Sall    Sr. Social Scientist                    TTL (2000-2003)
Moctar Thaim           Sr. Transport Specialist          AFTTR Co-TLL (2000-2003)
Oury Amadou Diallo     Agricultural Services Specialist        Co-TTL (2000-2003)

Rodrigue Djahlin       Consultant                        AFTAR Local Development
                                                               Specialist
Jean-Paul Chausse      Sector Manager                          Advisor
Hans Binswanger        Sector Director                         Advisor
Gnoleba Mathieu Meguhe Procurement Analyst               AFTPC Procurement
Henri A. Aka           Procurement Specialist            AFTPC Procurement
Thierno Hamidou Diallo Disbursement Specialist                 Disbursement

Bella Lelouma Diallo   Sr Financial Management
                       Specialist                        AFTFM Financial Management

Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo   Senior Operations Officer         AFTEN Operations Officer
René Cipriani          Consultant                              Procedures Manual
Zié Coulibaly          Infrastructure Specialist         AFTU2 Infrastructure Specialist
Yéyandé Sangho-Kassé   Agricultural Specialist           AFTAR Agricultural Specialist
Joseph Toledano        Agricultural Specialist                 Agriculture Specialist
Kadidiatou Bah         Administrative Assistant          AFMGN Administrative Assistant
Joseph Ellong          Language Program Assistant        AFTCS Lang. Program Assistant
Elisabeth Mekonnen     Language Program Assistant       AFTAR  Lang. Program Assistant




                                              34

(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                               Not available               200.99
  FY99                               Not available               113.46

                         Total:
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                               Not available                19.06
  FY00                                   32.93                   114.68
  FY01                                   55.69                   112.11
  FY02                                   43.97                   161.18
  FY03                                   54.65                   171.48
  FY04                                   30.82                    76.76
  FY05                                   28.34                    58.96
  FY06                                   19.46                    47.46
  FY07                                    1.30                     4.94
  FY08                                   13.01                    59.48

                         Total:        280.17                    826.11




                                     35

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey and Social Capital Assessment Results

                             Summary of Beneficiary Survey Results

The project financed three beneficiary surveys in (i) 2002, (ii) 2004 and (iii) 2007. All surveys'
results pointed to a strong support of the project's decentralization approach at the local level.
More than 90% of respondents were satisfied with the use of participatory methods in diagnosing
investment priorities, drafting the investment plans, and selecting micro-projects for financing.

Overall, key changes noted by the respondents are:

   (i)      Improved capacity of the elected local officials and a clear understanding of their
            mandates in managing the local governments;
   (ii)     More transparency in the management of funds provided to local communities;
   (iii)    Women and the youth participation in decision concerning the micro-project
            implementation increased through their participation in the micro-project
            implementation committees;
   (iv)     Improved quality and transparency in local government management;
   (v)      Improved tax payments by local residents and revenue collection by local
            governments; and;
   (vi)     Three-fold increase in students' enrollment in the concerned villages and usage of
            health centers.

The following improvements were suggested:

   (i)      Decentralized and participatory development will become the "only game in town" if
            CRDs are able to finance their activities directly from their own funds. Currently, the
            cost of undertaking the exercise leading to the elaboration of Local Development
            Plans cost between US$17,000 and 37,000. However, most CRDs are unable to
            contribute US$2,500 (which is 5% of the US$50,000 grant from the PAVC) to the
            planned micro-projects;
   (ii)     Infrastructure maintenance should be improved; the maintenance committees are
            inactive and there is no regular contribution to the infrastructure maintenance fund;
   (iii)    CRDs and devolved administrative structures lack the needed technical expertise to
            appropriately evaluation the quality of constructed infrastructures;
   (iv)     About 8% of the infrastructures (schools and health centers) are either partially or not
            fully operational because of the lack of staff;
   (v)      Planning and implementation of development programs among the devolved
            administration and the CRD should be better coordinated;
   (vi)     Lack of appropriate training for elected members of the community councils;
   (vii)    Lack of funding for CRD administration and for supervising micro-projects
            construction;
   (viii)   The micro-project implementation and management should be better monitored and
            the technical competence of the supervising staff (engineers) should be upgraded.




                                                 36

                         Summary of Social Capital Assessment Results

The Social Capital Assessment carried out at the end of project implementation in Forest Guinea
centered on two key themes namely (i) local governance, and (ii) social capital.

On governance, the key findings of the study included:

         (i) The December 2005 local elections, which were organized through strong support
         from the project, led to the emergence of new leadership within Guinea's Rural
         Communities (less than 20% of the newly local elected officials were incumbents), with
         education level much higher than in the previous session;

         (ii) Participatory processes in community management, which was promoted by the
         project, became accepted as the "only game in town", as evidenced by the high number
         of residents that participated in the community's activities, including women, the youth
         and other vulnerable groups;

         (iii) Relationships between the communities and their local administration and devolved
         technical services had improved substantially due to a better understanding of the
         decentralization concept and the roles and responsibilities of all of the stakeholders at the
         local level. The study confirmed that while CRDs in the control group CRD are still
         subject to top-down relations with the administrative authority, all PACV CRDs
         expressed less tensions in their relations with local authorities and devolved technical
         services, which are based on cooperation.

On social capital, the study's findings are summarized below:

         (i) Local elected official, networking and inter-CRD cooperation: The project contributed
         to setting up a framework for collaboration among CRDs through regular workshops
         which provided the opportunity to various CRDs to share problems and available
         solutions. Even though no major inter-CRD investment had been carried out, the set-up is
         a positive development that had the potential of bringing together two or more CRDs in
         financing joint activities in the future;

         (ii) Gender and empowerment of women: The study credited the project for setting up a
         framework through which women's participation was encouraged therefore allowing
         them to play an important role in the community's development, as evidenced by their
         increased participation in local committees (on average 16% of members are women). It
         also pointed out the existence of strongly ingrained sociological factors that excluded or
         made it difficult for women to participate in community activities. However, the study
         concluded that the weight of such factors is progressively diminishing, and women are
         becoming more empowered and more active in the community's life (their representation
         on community councils before the project started was 3%);
(iii) Social cohesion, tensions and conflict resolution: The study pointed out a high degree of trust
among the residents vis-à-vis their local elected officials, as they become more empowered and
knowledgeable about their rights, as well as the responsibilities of their representatives and other
officials. Working together through participatory processes creates a framework for building trust
within the community. However, the limited amount of resources created frustrations and
conflicts among the various communities within the CRDs




                                                  37

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

During project implementation, several stakeholder workshops were organized at the local
government, regional and national levels. The national level workshops are organized every year
and involve representatives from all beneficiary rural communities. The purpose of these was to
share the results of key project-related studies, evaluations and annual reports and to prepare
work programs for the following year. The workshops: (i) provided clarifications to the
beneficiaries (ii) empowered them to carry out the project's participatory processes; (iii)
facilitated the process of finding a harmonized approach in project implementation.

Key perceptions of the representatives of the beneficiaries were noted as follow:

    (i)       Representatives from beneficiary communities acknowledge and emphasize the
              relevance of the decentralization strategy and its accompanying participatory method
              introduced by the project as a relevant strategy for empowering local governments to
              take charge of their own development;
    (ii)      Capacity building activities were confirmed to be an important component of the
              process and representatives from beneficiary communities stressed the needs to
              ensure that until the beneficiary communities are fully equipped to go on their own.
              Such efforts should be sustained;
    (iii)     They also acknowledge that improved relations, dialogue and cooperation between
              local elected officials, and their population as well as the better coordination between
              CRD and devolved services are novelties in their lifetime;

Key recommendations from these workshops can be summarized as follow: (i) to prepare
simplified guidelines adapted to the education level of the local populations, explaining rules,
procedures of participatory management of development programs; (ii) to share good practices;
and (iii) to formalize working relations between devolved administrative and technical services of
the government and local governments




                                                   38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


INTRODUCTION

Le Programme d'Appui aux Communautés Villageoises (PACV) est un programme de
renforcement des capacités des communautés en vue de réduire la pauvreté, promouvoir la
croissance durable et améliorer le bien être de la population rurale. Approuvé en 1998, la
première phase du PACV (PACV1) a démarré ses activités en 2000, après une phase pilote d'un
an. Elle devait prendre fin en décembre 2003 mais elle a été prorogée jusqu'en juin 2005. Par la
suite, compte tenu du retard pris pour le démarrage de la 2ème phase, le PACV1 s'est finalement
achevé le 31 décembre 2007, après une période intérimaire financée par un don de l'Association
Internationale pour le Développement (IDA) pour consolider les résultats obtenus et maintenir
une présence effective du Programme sur le terrain. A l'exception du Fonds de Préparation du
Projet (PPF) dont l'accord de financement a été prorogé jusqu'au 31 mars 2008 et la subvention
de L'Agence Française pour le Développement (AFD) qui continuera à financer les activités
menées en Guinée Forestière jusqu'au 30 juin 2008, tous les fonds relatifs aux dons IDA H201 et
PHRD ont été clôturés le 31 décembre 2007.

Les paragraphes suivants présentent un résumé succinct des conclusions du rapport d'achèvement
du projet produit parle Gouvernement, et dont copie a été transmise l'IDA en date du 10
septembre 2008.

EVALUATION DE L'OBJECTIF DE DEVELOPPEMENT ET DE LA CONCEPTION DU
PROGRAMME

La définition de l'objectif de développement du PACV en général, du PACV1 en particulier, est
très satisfaisante. Les objectifs de développement à long terme du PACV sont pertinents par
rapport aux politiques du gouvernement en matière de décentralisation et de réduction de la
pauvreté. Le PACV1 s'inscrit également dans un ensemble de Politiques et de Stratégies élaborés
aussi bien au niveau national qu'au niveau sous-régional et international. Malgré des évolutions
positives de la situation des populations rurales dans les domaines visés, ces objectifs restent
encore très actuels et pertinents.

La qualité de la conception est satisfaisante. Outre la pertinence des objectifs, la conception du
programme est appréciée à travers (i) la qualité des études de pré-évaluation, (ii) la pertinence
des indicateurs et (iii) la cohérence des composantes.

ATTEINTE DES OBJECTIFS ET REALISATIONS

Objectif de Développement

A travers ses actions de renforcement des capacités des CRD, le PACV a largement contribué à
asseoir les bases de la décentralisation. On peut même considérer dire que les concepts et la
méthodologie élaborés par le programme et utilisés pour réaliser les Plans de Développement
Local (PDL) ont permis de fixer et de formaliser la démarche qui sera finalement adoptée, avec
quelques variantes, par l'ensemble des partenaires du développement décentralisé participatif en
Guinée. La qualité des résultats obtenus a contribué à faire accepter par tous les acteurs et les
Partenaires Techniques et Financiers (PTF) le PDL comme le cadre de référence de toutes les
interventions à la base. Même si la représentation des femmes et des jeunes reste encore



                                                39

relativement faible au sein des bureaux des CRD, l'approche participative dans la planification du
développement local a permis à plus de femmes et de jeunes d'exprimer leurs points de vue sur
les affaires locales. Enfin la gouvernance locale a connu une amélioration sensible à travers la
qualification des relations entre les collectivités et l'administration et des services fournis aux
CRD par les services déconcentrés.

Réalisations par Composante

    · Les résultats de la composante A sont très satisfaisants.
    · Les résultats de la composante B sont très satisfaisants.
    · Les résultats de la composante C sont satisfaisants.
    · Les résultats de la composante D sont satisfaisants.

Impact du Développement Institutionnel

L'impact du développement institutionnel est très satisfaisant. En matière de gouvernance locale,
la mise en oeuvre du FIV a favorisé le renforcement des capacités de gestion administrative et
financière des CRD bénéficiaires. En outre, la capacité de mobilisation des ressources humaines
et financières locales s'est améliorée, avec une grande contribution des ressortissants à la
planification et au financement des microprojets. On a noté des changements de
mentalité favorables à une meilleure utilisation des ressources humaines, avec une participation
accrue des femmes, des jeunes et de personnes autrefois marginalisées à cause de leur statut
social.

Au niveau central, la DND a été restructurée pour resserrer davantage ses activités autour de la
décentralisation administrative et financière. Une division « Développement local » a été créée, et
les missions des autres divisions ont été révisées pour mettre davantage l'accent sur l'appui aux
collectivités.

FACTEURS MAJEURS AFFECTANT LA MISE EN OEUVRE ET LES RESULTATS

Facteurs indépendants de la volonté de l'Emprunteur. Durant la période de démarrage, le projet a
connu des difficultés liées à une assimilation encore insuffisante de la philosophie et des outils de
la décentralisation et de la déconcentration par les différents acteurs publics (services centraux,
administration préfectorale, services déconcentrés) et privés (ONG et cabinets recrutés comme
opérateurs) ainsi que par les populations bénéficiaires elles-mêmes. Par ailleurs, des pesanteurs
d'ordre sociologique et culturel, en particulier en ce qui concerne les aspects genre et/ou la
présence de groupes marginalisés par les traditions (castes par exemple), ont affecté les
performances en matière de gouvernance participative locale.

Facteurs généralement dépendant de la volonté de l'Emprunteur. A partir de 2002, la Guinée a
connu une inflation de plus en plus élevée atteignant le pic de 28 % en 2004. Durant la période
d'exécution du projet le franc guinéen a perdu en moyenne 37% de sa valeur par rapport au dollar
américain passant de 1860 GNF en 2000 à 2550 GNF pour un dollar en fin 2004. Selon l'étude
menée par la CNC du projet, les effets combinés de ces facteurs se sont traduits par une
augmentation moyenne estimée à 32% en 2004 des coûts en francs guinéens des microprojets des
CRD. L'arrêt du Programme de Renforcement des Capacités Institutionnelles (PRCI) qui avait
été conçu comme un programme complémentaire au PACV a obligé à des ajustements et des
ajouts d'activités qui n'étaient pas prévues au départ. Par ailleurs, le climat politique, notamment
le retard pris dans l'élection des bureaux des CRD n'a pas toujours été favorable à la réalisation



                                                 40

des objectifs en matière de gouvernance locale. Enfin, la mise en oeuvre du FIV a été
particulièrement affectée par les suspensions répétées et de longue durée, de décaissement par le
FIDA (mars -août 2004 et depuis février 2005) et l'AFD (depuis mars 2004), suspensions
motivées par le non-respect de certains engagements du gouvernement à l'égard de ses PTF.

Facteurs généralement dépendant de la volonté de l'Organisme d'Exécution. Parmi les facteurs
dépendant de l'organisme d'exécution, il faut citer principalement : (i) la non maîtrise des
procédures et de l'approche « opérateurs » retenue pour l'appui aux CRD surtout au cours des 2
premières années du projet, occasionnant des retards plus ou moins importants ; (ii)
l'inexpérience du personnel en matière de gestion de projet et le temps qu'il a fallu pour la
maîtrise des outils conceptuels et méthodologiques du développement décentralisé participatif ; et
(iii) de multiples changements de responsables de la composante B, surtout en début de mise en
oeuvre.

DURABILITE ­ PERENNITE

Dans l'ensemble, la pérennité des acquis du PACV1 est probable. Pour assurer la durabilité, voire
la pérennité des acquis, un certain nombre de conditions doit être réunies: (i) L'augmentation des
ressources financières locales mobilisées par les communautés et par la CRD; (ii) l'amélioration
et le renforcement de l'approche participative et des outils conceptuels et méthodologiques de la
planification locale par l'ensemble des acteurs; (iii) la poursuite et le renforcement du processus
de décentralisation, en particulier à travers des compétences et des responsabilités accrues en ce
qui concerne la gestion des ressources budgétaires et humaines locales. Par ailleurs, la pérennité
des infrastructures réalisées dépend beaucoup de leur entretien. Des efforts sont faits pour mettre
en place un fond d'entretien local, mais dans l'ensemble les ressources mobilisées sont loin de
satisfaire les besoins.

Dispositions vers le PACV2. Le PDL est devenu le document de référence pour tous les
partenaires au développement de la CRD. Pour ce faire, la consolidation des apprentissages en
vue d'une plus grande maîtrise des outils est encore nécessaire. Ce processus d'élaboration des
plans de développement inter CRD, de Plans de Développement Préfectoraux et de Plans de
Développement Régionaux, qui est l'étape suivante, devrait, à moyen terme, déboucher sur une
planification stratégique nationale sur plusieurs années. Dans ce cadre, le PACV2 doit prendre en
considération les relations qui devraient exister entre, d'une part, l'accès aux services sociaux de
base et la maîtrise des impacts environnementaux et, d'autre part, l'amélioration des revenus des
populations rurales grâce à la promotion d'activités génératrices de revenus (AGR). Les PDL et
les PAI doivent mieux refléter ces complémentarités pour une approche systémique et
transversale du développement à la base.




                                                 41

PERFORMANCE DES PARTENAIRES4

De manière générale, la performance d'ensemble des bailleurs de fonds est satisfaisante. Elle
reflète les performances spécifiques de chacun des partenaires:

     · La performance d'ensemble de la Banque et du FIDA est satisfaisante.
     · La Performance d'ensemble de l'ADF est satisfaisante.
     · La performance d'ensemble de l'AFD est satisfaisante.

PERFORMANCE DE L'EMPRUNTEUR

     · La performance d'ensemble du gouvernement est peu satisfaisante.
     · La performance de l'organisme d'exécution est satisfaisante.
     · La performance des bénéficiaires (CRD) est jugée très satisfaisante.

LEÇONS APPRISES

La participation et la responsabilisation des communautés ont été les facteurs déterminants du
succès du PACV. Au titre des leçons apprises, on peut noter:

     · Les populations rurales connaissent parfaitement leurs besoins et leurs priorités. Même
         analphabètes, elles ont une grande capacité d'assimilation des méthodes participatives de
         diagnostic et de planification du développement local.

     · Les activités génératrices de revenus constituent un élément important du renforcement
         des capacités des communautés. C'est à travers elles que la durabilité du micro - projets
         d'infrastructures sociales peut être mieux assurée.

     · Plus les femmes participent activement et en grand nombre au DPC et à la planification,
         plus leurs préoccupations figurent en bonne place parmi les priorités de la communauté.

     · Les PDL et PAI ne sont pas seulement des outils de planification. Ce sont aussi des
         moyens de promouvoir l'équité entre les communautés d'une même CRD. L'approche
         participative a permis aux districts les plus pauvres de bénéficier d'infrastructures
         sociales.

CONCLUSIONS

Le PACV est devenu aujourd'hui un programme de référence aussi bien pour le Gouvernement
guinéen et ses PTF que pour les populations. En responsabilisant les bénéficiaires, il a amené des
changements décisifs en matière de gouvernance locale, de développement décentralisé
participatif et de lutte contre la pauvreté de masse. Il a contribué à bâtir une vision du

4 La notation de la performance des acteurs a été faite sur la base i) de la contribution à l'atteinte des
résultats du projet, ii) du respect des engagements pour le gouvernement et les bailleurs de fonds et iii) de
l'efficacité dans l'exercice des attributions (organe d'exécution). L'échelle de notation comporte 4
niveaux : très satisfaisant (TS), satisfaisant (S), peu satisfaisant (PS) et pas du tout satisfaisant NS).




                                                        42

développement communautaire participatif, à former et à renforcer les capacités de divers acteurs
publics et privés et à construire ses outils théoriques et méthodologiques dans le contexte
guinéen.




                                             43

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

EVALUATION DE L'EXECUTION DU PROJET

Le PACV a su apporter un début de réponse à la volonté politique de la Guinée de lutter contre la
pauvreté et de renforcer le processus de décentralisation par un transfert effectif de pouvoir aux
collectivités à la base comme stipulé dans la Lettre de Politique de Développement Rural
décentralisé et du Document Stratégique de Réduction de la Pauvreté.

Le projet a atteint de manière satisfaisante son objectif principal en appuyant les collectivités à la
base pour leur permettre de se prendre en charge et les aider à résoudre leur problème de
développement local sur la base d'une approche largement participative. En effet, toutes les CRD
couvertes par le PACV sont en mesure de poser un diagnostic socio- économique qui tient
compte de toutes les couches sociales de leurs localités, d'élaborer un Plan de Développement
Local (PDL) et un Plan Annuel d'Investissement (PAI). Les textes légaux et réglementaires ont
été clarifiés et diffusés dans le code des collectivités, leur application future permettrait aux CRD
de mieux assurer leur responsabilité auprès des populations.

Les infrastructures réalisées dans ces localités ont contribué à améliorer dans une large mesure les
conditions de vie des bénéficiaires, en permettant à beaucoup plus d'enfants (filles et garçons) de
fréquenter une école du village, à la population d'accéder à l'eau potable et aux soins de santé
primaire, aux producteurs de pouvoir accéder facilement aux marchés grâce au désenclavement
de leurs localités.

Le processus de mise en oeuvre de ces infrastructures a été mené dans le respect des procédures
définies dans les manuels de gestion. Les comités de passation des marchés, de transparence, de
gestion, de contrôle et de suivi des travaux, d'entretien des infrastructures composés et animés par
les populations bénéficiaires ont permis la réalisation d'infrastructures à des coûts raisonnables et
dans la transparence. Les membres des différents comités ont reçu les formations nécessaires à
l'accomplissement de leurs différentes fonctions.

Enfin, l'organisation et la structuration du milieu rural ont été les acquis importants du PACV.
Les infrastructures réalisées ont été exécutées par de petites entreprises de travaux et des bureaux
locaux d'ingénierie; ce qui a permis un transfert de ressources à la base et la création d'emplois
nouveaux en particulier pour les jeunes.

EVALUATION DES IMPACTS ET DE LA DURABILITE DU PROJET

Durabilité : Le développement local participatif est entrain de se mettre en place à travers le PACV,
de façon durable. Les acquis ne pourraient être consolidés et durables que si le projet est financé
dans la durée.

Impact socio-économique et institutionnel : Le PACV a permis de créer une capacité de conception,
de mise en oeuvre et de suivi des projets au niveau local. Une approche de développement local
adaptée a été mise en oeuvre. Les populations ont conscience de leurs capacités. Le mécanisme de
transfert des ressources a été un succès pour des populations à 70% analphabètes. Le PACV a créé
aussi un changement positif dans les relations entre les CRD et leur tutelle. Les relations sont
davantage basées sur le partenariat. L'administration est perçue donc par les CRD comme un
partenaire. Les femmes et les jeunes sont davantage impliques dans le processus de planification
locale et animent les comites de gestion. Le projet a créé la richesse au niveau local à travers


                                                  44

l'implication des petites entreprises de travaux, qui injectent les ressources sur place. Le cadrage des
interventions est bien assure avec des besoins bien identifies, hiérarchises et exécutes dans un PDL
duquel le PAI est tiré, ce qui permet d'avoir une bonne efficience des interventions.

Impact environnemental: Le projet a veillé au respect des normes environnementales durant sa
mise en oeuvre grâce à la cellule environnementale de DNGR. En effet, un Plan de Gestion
Environnementale et Sociale pour les pistes rurales a été élaboré et exécuté pendant la mise en
oeuvre de la composante C. L'exécution des microprojets aussi s'est déroulée dans le respect du
Plan de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale, élaboré après la revue à mi parcours, pour les
microprojets à l'intention des CRD.

ENSEIGNEMENTS A TIRER DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET

    · Les communautés rurales de développement, avec leurs fonds propres sont capables
        d'utiliser des outils de planification et de gestion mis en place par le PACV pour réaliser
        de façon participative les diagnostics socio économiques.

    · A la base, la gestion et la coordination du projet ont été assurées par le Conseil
        communautaire de chaque CRD couverte. C'est à ce niveau que l'impact sur le
        développement institutionnel a été le mieux ressenti. En effet, une harmonie s'est établie
        entre l'administration publique à la base qui se consacre à ses attributions de services
        technique d'appui de proximité et la CRD qui est le véritable planificateur et gestionnaire
        de son développement. Ce n'est plus une relation hiérarchique entre ces deux institutions
        mais un partenariat et une complémentarité dans la réalisation des actions de
        développement.

    · La transparence dans la gestion des ressources par les bénéficiaires directs et
        l'implication de toutes les couches sociales à la planification, favorisent l'esprit
        démocratique et la bonne gouvernance.

    · Le renforcement des capacités des communautés à la base est indissociable à celui de
        l'administration publique déconcentrée. Le retard de l'un peut être facilement un frein à
        l'autre. Les structures pérennes devraient être de plus en plus impliquées, dans les rôles
        qui sont les leurs, dans la mise en oeuvre des projets de développement pour rendre plus
        durables les actions et les bénéfices.

    · Vu l'absolue nécessité de développer les activités génératrices de revenus pour accroître
        les recettes locales, il est important d'élaborer pour les phases ultérieures un manuel
        d'exécution et de gestion pour la mise en oeuvre du FAI.

    · La mise en place d'un compte commun alimenté par tous les bailleurs de fonds qui
        participent au financement du projet et qui obéirait à une procédure de décaissement
        harmonisé, aiderait à raccourcir les délais de renouvellement de fonds.




                                                  45

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Manuel d'Exécution du Programme; 2001 ;

2. World Bank 2004. Projet d'Appui aux Communautés Villageoises (PACV). Mission d'appui
   à la préparation du PACV 2 (février et juillet);

3. Audit technique des micro-projets réalisés par les CRD; décembre 2007;

4. PACV 2007; Etat d'avancement des activités du PACV, Bilan et perspectives ; Mai 2007 ;

5. DNC (2007) Observatoire de la Décentralisation;

6. Note Technique. Le Chargé de l'observatoire de la décentralisation et des associations des
   élus; DNC 2006;

7. Ministère de l'Intérieur et de la Sécurité, Observatoire de la décentralisation (2008). Plan
   d'action 2008;

8. PACV 2005. Manuel de suivi-évaluation vol, I, II, III;

9. Texte de Loi Portant Code des Collectivités Locales en République de Guinée; MATD 2006;

10. VCSP: Project Appraisal Document, September 1999;

11. PACV 2000 ­ 2007; Rapports d'activités;

12. Décentralisation des Activités Sectorielles, Rapport Final. Denis Bruno Koffi, Consultant
    Internationale. March 2005 ;

13. Etude Analytique du Cadre Institutionnel et Organisationnel du PACV2. Cabinet Nord Sud
    Consult. May 2006 ;

14. Etude sur l'Analyse Economique et Financière de PACV2. Ansoumane Camara et Aly Sy,
    Consultants Nationaux. Mai 2005 ;

15. Etude Portant sur l'Amélioration des Recettes Fiscales et de leur Collecte au Niveau des
    Collectivité Locales (CRD). TAFSIR Audit & Conseil. Février 2005 ;

16. Evaluation des Besoins des Communautés Rurales de Développement (CRD). Pride/Guinée.
    Août 2005 ;

17. Evaluation des Prestations des ADC, Opérateurs et ONG au Niveau Communautaire. Cheick
    Oumar KEITA, Consultant National, Avril 2005 ;

18. Guide Générale pour l'Harmonisation des Méthodes, Outils et Procédures utilisés pour
    la planification, le suivi et l'évaluation participatives au niveau des CRD. Direction
    Nationale de la Décentralisation, MATD avec l'appui technique du Cabinet Nord Sud
    Consult, Version Finale, Mai 2006 ;

19. Manuel d'Exécution du Fonds d'Investissement Local (FIL) - Guichet 1, PACV Phase II.
    MCG Conseils. Avril 2005 ;

20. Manuel de Suivi-Evaluation, Volume 1: Eléments de Base et Suivi d'Impact. Jean-Pierre
    Muimana Kalala, Consultant Internationale. Mai 2005 ;

21. Manuel de Suivi-Evaluation, Volume 2 : Montage Institutionnelle et outils de collecte de
    données sur le niveau d'exécution du PACV2. Jean-Pierre Muimana Kalala, Consultant
   Internationale. Mai 2005 ;




                                               46

22. Manuel de Suivi-Evaluation, Volume 3: Eléments pour le Suivi des Résultats Financiers.
    Jean-Pierre Muimana Kalala, Consultant Internationale. Mai 2005 ;

23. Nomenclature Budgetaire et Comptable des Collectivités Locales, Version Finale. West
    African Consultants. Avril 2006 ;

24. Texte de Loi Portant Code des Collectivités Locales en République de Guinée. Ministère de
    l'Administration du Territoire et de la Décentralisation (MATD). Mai 2006 ;

25. Evaluation Environnementale et Sociale (EES), Rapport Final. SATEC Développement
    International et BDPA. Mars 2005 ;

26. Evaluation de la Décentralisation en République de Guinée. Rapport Final. PNUD et MATD.
    Mars 2005' ;

27. Identification des Besoins en Formation des Cadres de l'Administration Territoriale et dans
    le Domaine de Décentralisation. Rapport de Mission pour le compte du Ministère des
    Affaires Etrangères de France sur requête du Ministère de l'Administration Territoriale et de
    la Décentralisation de Guinée. François Cazottes. Mars 2006 ;

28. Rapport Synthèse de Préparation du PACV2. Ministère du Plan. Août 2006 ;

29. Capitalisation des Expériences des Projets d'Appui en Développement Local et
    Décentralisation en Afrique de l'Ouest : Le Cas de la Guinée. FENU. Juin 2006.

30. Rapport d'achèvement du FIDA; Décembre 2006 ;

31. Rapport d'achèvement du Gouvernement, Août 2008 ;

32. Aide-mémoire Mission Technique du PACV (10 au 24 janvier 2005) ;

33. Aide-mémoire Mission d' appui `a la préparation du rapport final d'exécution (3 au 10
    septembre 2004) ;

34. Aide-mémoire Mission d'appui à la préparation de la deuxième phase (19 juin au 2 juillet
    2004) ;

35. Aide-mémoire Mission de supervision de la première phase et de préparation de la deuxième
    phase (24 mai au 27 juin 2006) ;

36. Aide-mémoire Mission de supervision rapprochée (21-29 septembre 2002) ;

37. Aide-mémoire Mission de supervision (17 au 28 novembre 2003) ;

38. Aide-mémoire Mission de supervision de la première phase et de pré-évaluation de la
    deuxième phase (18 avril au 06 mai 2005) ;

39. Aide-mémoire Revue à mi-parcours du PACV (25 novembre au 6 décembre 2002) ;

40. Etude de l'impact social du PACV en Guinée Forestière ; Août 2008

41. Impact du PACV sur les bénéficiaires; Août 2006.




                                                47

                                          14°W        TTo
                                                       o
                                                      Tambacounda                                    12°W                                               10°W                                                                     8°W
                                                              S E N E G A L                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                                                                                                                                                                   TTo
                                                                                                                                                                                     o            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                        TTo
                                                                                                                         o                                                       Kayes
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                      TTo
                                                                                                       o                Kayes                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                      Tambacounda
                                            TTo
                                            o        Koundara                                                                                                                                                     To Bamako
                                        Tambacounda


                GUINEA-BISSAU                               Tom                                     Gambia                                                                               Nyagassola                               M A L I
                                                   Foulamôri i
                                                   Foulamôri   né                               Mali         Balaki

              12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12°N
                           TTo
                            o                                                     M O Y E N N E
                          Bafatá
                          Bafatá                                                                                                                                                      Doko

                                                          Gaoual                                                                                                                                            Niger
                                                                                         G U I N E E                                                                  Kintinian
                                Kogon                                         LLélouma
                                                                               élouma                     Tongue                                                                                                                    To Bougouni
                                                                                                  Labé
                                                                                                  Labé               Bafing Dinguiraye                            Tinkis s              Siguiri
                                                                                                                                                                         so
                                                                                                                                                                          o

                                                    Sangarédi
                                                    Sangarédi                                 Pita
                         Sansalé
                         Sansalé                                                                                                               H A U T E              Niandankoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sankarani

                                       Boké
                                       Boké                              TTéliméléee
                                                                           élimélé                                                           G U I N E E
                                               G U I N E E                                                           Dabola       Bissikrima                              Niger

                         Kamsar                                                            Dalaba
                                           M A R I T I MKoEnkouré                                                                                  Kouroussa                             Mandiana


                                                     Fria                                              Mamou                                                                         Kankan
                                           Boffa

                                                                     Kindia                                                               Faranah                                Milo
              10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10°N


                                                  Dubréka
                                                                 Coyah                                                                      Tiro              Niantan      Moribaya             Dion


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       annkaran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nii
                 A T L A N T I C                                                         é
                                        CONAKRY                       Forécariah
                                                                      Forécariah                                                                                                                                                                                  TTo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                   Kolenté
                                                                                   Kolent                                                                                                                                                                      Korhogo
                  O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                                            Kérouane
                                                                                                                                                                                            Kérouane             Sokourala
                                           14°W                                                        To
                                                                                                       To                  To
                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                    Magburaka          Magburaka                         Kissidougou

                                                                                           S I E R R A L E O N E                                                                 Sibiribaro

                       GUINEA                                                TTo
                                                                              o
                                                                          Freetown                                                                                                                      Beyla
                                                                                                                                                   Guéckédou
                                                                                                                                                   Guéckédou                          G U I N E E
                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                Macenta

                       PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                                                   Makona                                                  Boola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TTo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              o
                       REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                         F O R E S T I E R E                                        Séguéla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Séguéla


                       NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      GUINEA                                                                                                                                                               8°N

                       RIVERS                                                                                                                                                        Nzéré-koré
                                                                                                                                                                                     Nzéré-koré         MtsLolaMt.
                                                                                                                                                                                                              .
                       MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                L I B E R I A                                                       Nimba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1752 m)              C Ô T E
                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                 Yomou                                             D ' I V O I R E
NOVEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                       Nimba
                       PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                     0     20   40  60  80   100 Kilometers                Diéké
                                                                                                                                                                                       Diéké                                                                           IBRD

                       REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TTo o                                                33414
        2004           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                  0        20     40     60        80 Miles                                           Man
                                                                                                     12°W                                               10°W                                                                     8°W

