FILE COPY                                   Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2352-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE
ERDEMIR STAGE II STEEL PROJECT
June 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977   March 1978
Currency Unit                  -             Lira (TL)        TL
US$1                           -             LT 18.00         25.00
LT 1                                        US$0.05          0.04
FISCAL YEAR
March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
-AID            -  US Agency for International Development
BF             - Blast furnace
BOF            -  Basic oxygen furnace
Borrower       -  The Government of Turkey
CIF            -  cost, insurance and freight
FOB            -  free on board
IMF            -  International Monetary Fund
Japanese Exim
Bank          -  Export Import Bank of Japan
Koppers        -  Koppers Company of the USA
NKK            - Nippon Kokan K.K.
p.a.           -  per annum
Recipient      -  Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S.
tpy            -  metric tons per year
UEC            -  US Steel Engineers and Consultants
US Exim Bank   - Export Import Bank of America



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - ERDEMIR STAGE II STEEL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Turkey
Beneficiary:         Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S. (Erdemir)
Amount:              $95 million equivalent, in various currencies
Terms:               17 years, including 4 years of grace
Interest at 7.5 percent per annum
Relending Terms:    14 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace; interest
rate of 10 percent per annum. Beneficiary will bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   (i) Expansion of Erdemir's production capacity from 1.5 to 2.0
million tons p.a. of ingot steel, equivalent to an increase
of from 1.1 to 1.5 million tons p.a. of flat steel products.
Major new facilities include:
(a) additions to raw materials handling systems,
a turbo blower, scrap preparation facilities,
cranes, automatic baler and shearer, manual
burning beds, continuous slab caster, utilities,
services and effluent treatment and monitoring
facilities, and improvements and balancing in
slab yard, hot strip mill, and hot and cold
rolled finishing facilities, including those
for reduction of energy consumption and operating
costs.
(b) Consultant services for engineering, as also for
a feasibility study of Erdemir's Stages III
and IV expansion programs (including analysis of
alternative sewerage treatment facilities from
the plant and Eregli's township), and training.
(ii) The project will considerably reduce Turkish imports of
needed flat steel products, saving about $95 million
p.a. at full production. The only major risk is of
delays in project implementation, and delayed fulfillment
of expectation of considerable improvement in Erdemir's
financial position based on the future trend of production
costs and steel prices in Turkey.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                                   $ millions
Foreign   Local   Total
Engineering and administration          11.1      7.6    18.7
Civil works and installation             8.0     51.1    59.1
Equipment, spares and utilities         78.3      8.7    87.0
Freight and insurance                    6.4      0.8      7.2
Training and technical assistance        2.1      9.2    11.3
Base cost estimate                     105.9     77.4   183.3
Contingencies:  (a) Physical             9.6      6.9    16.5
(b) Price             35.0      66.3   101.3
Total Project Cost                     150.5    150.6   301.1
Increase in working capital             2.2      18.1    20.3
Interest during construction           20.4        -      20.4
Total Financing Required               173.1    168.7   341.8
Financing Plan:                                                   $ millions
Foreign   Local   Total
Bank                                    95.0       -      95.0
Obtained supplier credits               28.0       -      28.0
Expected suppliers credits             22.0        -      22.0
Internally generated funds               -      168.7   168.7
Turkey (Government)                     28.1       -      28.1
Total                                  173.1    168.7   341.8
Estimated
Disbursements:                                                $ millions
Bank FY    1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
Annual                           4.3  33.8  45.0  11.5   0.4
Cumulative                       4.3  38.1  83.1  94.6  95.0
Consultant
Services:           Following evaluation of proposals from 3 reputed interna-
tional firms, Nippon Kokan KK of Japan has been selected
after consultation with the Bank, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Economic Rate
of return:          17 percent
Appraisal            No. 1875a-TU dated May 31, 1978
Report:



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE ERDEMIR STAGE II STEEL PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of $95 million to help finance
the foreign exchange cost of the Erdemir Stage II steel project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at
7.5 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to Eregli
Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S. (Erdemir) for 14 years with 3-1/2 years
grace period, and with interest at 10 percent per annum.
Part I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on November 2, 1976. Since then, the economic situation dete-
riorated rapidly and culminated in a serious balance-of-payments crisis and
high levels of inflation. This section analyzes the situation in 1977 against
the background of more permanent structural problems; it also outlines the
short-term stabilization package implemented by the new Ecevit Government
shortly after receiving its vote of confidence in mid-January 1978, and
prospects for the short-term.   This package, formed the basis of a Standby
Arrangement with the IMF, which was finalized in late March and approved by
the Board of Executive Directors of the IMF in late April. The determination
and sense of purpose with which the new Government has faced up to the severe
economic problems confronting Turkey, holds the promise that medium-term
economic and debt management policies needed to build on the stabilization
package, will soon be evolved with equal seriousness. The expanded Annex I
attached to this Report provides insights into those developments which
precipitated the present economic crisis, and analyzes them in detail in the
context of trends and the structural problems of the economy. An economic
mission planned in the Fall, will further review these trends and prospects.
3.         In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment
to rapid growth and modernisation, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. However, employment has never been at the
fore of the objectives of successive Governments. Overall, this impressive
economic progress has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970 and 1977) by severe
balance of payments crises, which have been the product partly of extraneous
factors and partly of Turkish development strategy itself, which has paid
insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy, and has
perhaps exacerbated some of them.
1/   Part I is largely identical to Part I in the Report and Recommendation of
the President on the Livestock IV and Northern Forestry Projects, Reports
Nos. P-2332-TU, and P-2333-TU, dated May 12, 1978, and approved on June 1,
1978.



Structural Problems and the Situation in 1977
4.         The emphasis which successive governments have laid on industrial-
ization has been reflected in a doubling of the share of the industrial
sector in total output between 1955 and 1977. It also resulted in comparative
neglect of agricultural development, which has also been hampered by inappro-
priate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts of Turkish
industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so, a strong
emphasis on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has resulted in high-
cost production in certain sectors; and unselective protection against com-
petition from imports, has inhibited the development of an industrial
structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms of loca-
tion, natural resources and labor availability. One important consequence
of this, as well as of a foreign trade strategy which has emphasized import-
substitution, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to develop a strong
industrial export base, and has relied instead on its traditional agricultural
exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance the imports of
materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious modernization effort.
This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of the difficulty, which
Turkey has periodically experienced, in reconciling rapid growth with a viable
external payments position.
5.        The rate of growth of production in Turkey, unlike almost every
other country, accelerated during the recent world recession. The average
annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-73 was under 7 percent; in
the period 1973-77, it rose to nearly 8 percent. This was made possible by a
rising public sector deficit, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand
and offset the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased
outflow of payments for oil. As a result, the growth of output was con-
strained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and good harvests
caused the average annual rate of growth of agricultural output to increase
from about 2 percent in the period 1970-73 to about 7 percent in the period
1973-77, while industrial output grew at about 10 percent in both periods -
principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial investment.
The pace of investment in Turkey, moreover, did not slacken during the world
recession; on the contrary, largely as the result of an intensified public
investment drive from 1975 onwards, the share of fixed investment in GDP
increased from under 19 percent in the period of the Second Plan (1968-72)
to over 20 percent in the period of the Third Plan (1973-77).
6.        The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970's,
was not matched by that of employment. Unemployment and underemployment were
relatively high (12 percent of the labor force) in 1970, and have since risen
to over 13 percent in 1977. This has been the result of a sharp reduction in
the rate of emigration since 1973, a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of
population growth, and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of
production in both agriculture and industry.
7.        There was a gradual deterioration in the external trading position
of Turkey since 1973, which culminated in the serious balance of payments



- 3 -
crisis in 1977. The resource gap increased from $623 million in 1973 or 3
percent of GDP, to about $4.0 billion in 1977 or more than 9 percent of GDP.
Imports of goods and non-factor services increased from $2.3 billion in 1973
to about $6.5 billion in 1977, or by about 30 percent per year, as a result
of: (a) significant increases in import prices since 1973, especially the
price of oil; (b) rapid increase in the demand for imported capital goods
due to high levels of investment and emphasis on industrial development; and
(c) a general liberalization of import restrictions. The remainder of the
deterioration is attributable to a decline in the rate of growth of exports,
both absolutely and in relation to the rate of growth of GDP. In dollar
terms, Turkish exports of goods and non-factor services grew during 1970-73
at an average annual rate of 31 percent; during 1973-77, the average annual
growth rate was only 10 percent. This decline in export performance had its
roots in ineffective administration of agricultural export sales, the world
recession, an uncompetitive exchange rate, and excess aggregate demand in
the domestic economy.
8.         The widening of the resource gap was amplified in the current
account deficit, which rose from $0.7 billion in 1973 to $3.4 billion in 1977
as the result of a decline in workers' remittances, which was a consequence
of the overvaluation of the lira, as well as of changes in the composition of
the Turkish emigrant population, including a decline in the proportion of
relatively recent migrants.
9.         The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey has
deliberately kept foreign private investment to a minimum. Borrowing from
long-term official sources has also stagnated since 1970, and recourse to
long-term market sources has been minimal, for lack of a dynamic and coherent
external borrowing policy.  In consequence, the overall balance of payments
moved from a surplus of $0.9 billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.7 billion in
1977.  The cumulative deficit from 1974 to 1977 amounted to $6.6 billion.  Of
this, $1.3 billion was financed by running down the foreign exchange reserves
which by the end of 1977 stood at $770 million, equivalent to only one and a
half month's imports.  The remainder, amounting to some $5.3 billion, was
financed mainly by various forms of short-term borrowing.
10.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible
Lira Accounts (CLAs), which provided nearly $2 billion, in 1975 and 1976.
These are deposits placed with Turkish banks by non-residents and commercial
banks, offering a spectrum of interest rates according to maturity, and until
recently were guaranteed against exchange rate risk. Various other types of
short-term loans were also obtained. During 1977, however, foreign lenders
became reluctant to roll over the outstanding stock of short-term debt, and
even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The Central Bank was
thus driven to delaying payments for imports on a large scale. This action
made it even harder to obtain credit by conventional means. Financing of the
current account deficit in 1975-77 through recourse to CLAs and other short-
term borrowings is the main cause of the sharp increase in the debt burden.



- 4 -
11.       This deterioration in the balance of payments position can be
viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at domestic resource
mobilization, especially in the public sector. The public sector deficit
increased from TL 6.2 billion in 1973 to TL 77.0 billion in 1977. This
increased deficit was mainly due to a deterioration in the financial position
of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and in particular of the operational
SEEs, which dominate the transport and energy sectors and account for half the
output of mining and manufacturing. Successive governments, in an effort to
slow inflation, held SEE price increases below the rate at which SEE costs
were rising. In addition, the scale of SEE investment was greatly escalated.
The net effect has been a very rapid widening of the gap between SEE savings
and investment, which has caused the overall public sector deficit to rise
from 2 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to 9 percent of GDP in 1976-77. Most of this
increased deficit has been financed by borrowing from the Central Bank, since
administered ceilings on interest rates made it hard to attract purchasers for
government bonds. As a result, the money supply increased rapidly at an aver-
age annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977. This was paralleled
by a high rate of credit expansion to the private sector.
12.       The rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale price index),
which had declined between 1974 and 1975, rose to about 35 percent in 1977 and
accelerated in early 1978. There are important cost-push influences on the
price level in Turkey, including a powerful labor union movement and a farmer-
oriented agricultural price support policy. But the recent acceleration of
inflation has been the result principally of excess demand. The rise in the
public sector deficit caused an increase in aggregate demand well beyond the
amount needed to offset the damping effect of reduced exports and an increased
import propensity. The consequent upward pressure on the price level was
aggravated in 1977 by ad hoc import restrictions, which reduced the avail-
ability of goods requiring imported inputs, and contributed to the development
of a substantial idle capacity.
13.       The crisis of 1977 was thus a result of a combination of external
and internal forces. The rise in the price of oil and the world recession, by
increasing the cost of imports and reducing exports and workers' remittances,
adversely affected Turkey's trading position which was already structurally
weak. The effect of these elements on the balance of payments deficit was
amplified by the increase in the growth rate after 1973, which was a reflec-
tion of the basic Turkish commitment to rapid growth, manifested in an escala-
tion of public sector investment without a commensurate increase in public
sector savings. In addition, the seriousness of the crisis was aggravated by
inadequate management of agricultural exports, an inappropriate exchange rate
policy, and lack of a coherent policy to develop and tap fresh sources of
medium and long-term external finance.
Recent Stabilization Measures
14.       The previous coalition government had initiated in mid-1977, nego-
tiations with the IMF for a Standby Agreement. In the fall of 1977, it
announced drastic price increases for a number of goods and services of the



- 5 -
SEEs (ranging from 50 to nearly 300 percent), devalued the Turkish Lira by 10
percent in September with a further adjustment of 5 percent in early December.
In the midst of the IMF negotiations, the new Ecevit Government came into
power, with a slim majority in the National Assembly. It decided to first
prepare its own stabilization package, before resuming negotiations with the
IMF. Within weeks of receiving its vote of confidence, it finalized its
Annual Program for 1978 and the 1978 Budget. As soon as the budget was
approved on February 28, it presented its stabilization package to the IMF.
The main features of the Annual Program for 1978, the 1978 Budget and the
short-term economic stabilization package, which formed the basis of the IMF
Standby Arrangements, included: devaluation of the Turkish Lira by a further
30 percent in March, removal of the exchange rate guarantees for new CLAs in
an effort to minimize new inflows of these short-term deposits, increased
interest rates on deposits of Turkish workers abroad to encourage increased
remittances, increased interest/deposit rates to stimulate better resource
mobilization and allocation within Turkey, introduction of new tax legislation
(including a substantial increase in stamp duties on imports) which will inter
alia increase public revenues by about TL 20 billion per annum (equal to about
2 percent of GDP), substantial adjustments in the prices of key SEEs products
and services (with further increases expected in the near future) in an effort
to improve resource mobilization, plans to limit the growth of consolidated
public sector expenditures (including those of SEEs) within available resources
to thus sharply reduce recourse to Central Bank financing of public sector
deficits, reduction in the level of imports in 1978 to $5 billion from the
peak of $5.8 billion reached in 1977, and a projected reduction in the current
account deficit in 1978 to $1.45 billion. Although much remains to be done,
these steps should help bring some order in the chaotic economic house which
the new government inherited.
15.       The Standby Agreement was finalized on the basis of the above pack-
age and was approved by the IMF Board in late April. It provides for the
withdrawal of about $89 million equivalent in Compensatory Drawings, within
two weeks of the signing of the Agreement. In addition, since the Witteveen
Facility is not in operation, Turkey would be eligible to draw up to 150 per-
cent of its quota, which amounts to about $360 million under the Exceptional
Circumstances Clause. This would entitle Turkey to withdraw about $174
million in the first two tranches as follows: $60 million in May 1978; $48
million in August 1978; $36 million in November 1978 and $30 million in
February 1979. IMF will review economic developments and the progress of the
stabilization measures in January 1979. Following that, Turkey will be
entitled to withdraw a further $186 million over a one year period. In other
words, in calendar 1978, Turkey can withdraw a maximum of $233 million.
16.       With the signing of the Standby Agreement, it is expected that
Turkey would now be in a much better position to cope with its large short-
term debt currently estimated at $5.8 billion (excluding $409 million owed
to IMF), much of it due in 1978. This is its most critical immediate problem.
To tackle this problem, Turkey will immediately need to roll-over about $1.3
billion of CLAs falling due in 1978, but for which no major problem is expected.
It has begun negotiations with leading European and US commercial banks to
restructure the CLAs due in 1978 as well as an additional $1.2 billion of



short-term debt into medium- and long-term debts. These banks, in principle,
have already agreed to present viable proposals shortly. The Government has
also sought the reactivation of the OECD consortium, in order to restructure
trade debt guaranteed by bilateral export financing agencies and public
bilateral debt. The consortium met in late May in Paris and a working party
of creditors meeting within the consortium framework has agreed to the restruc-
turing of such debt. The Government is also actively pursuing other available
financial sources of external medium- and long-term capital aid, including the
tapping of possible new ones in the Middle East.
17.        If the current account deficit in 1978 is to be brought down to
$1.45 billion it will be necessary to bring about improvements in performance
of Turkish exports, both agricultural and industrial. This will require the
maintenance of a competitive exchange rate and an increase in the proportion
of investments devoted to export-oriented industries. It will also require
greater emphasis on agricultural development, together with revision of price
support policies and reform of agriculture export procedures. In addition,
other sources of foreign exchange earnings which have been neglected so far,
such as tourism, would need to be tapped in a systematic and effective fashion.
At the same time, the growth of imports will have to be kept down by much
greater care in the selection of investment projects and continued restriction
of nonessential imports. The 1978 Annual Program is considered by the new
government to be an interim one, which will constitute the first year of
Turkey's Fourth Five-Year Plan (1978-82) to be finalized by late 1978. The
new government seems determined to approach the formulation of future planned
targets and some of the key immediate and medium-term economic and debt
management policies, on a sound and realistic basis, and not on that of
ineffectual compromises which plagued the previous coalition governments.
18.        In 1978 and 1979, the measures necessary to recover from the present
crisis will probably cause the annual growth rate of real GDP to fall to 3 or
4 percent, but for the remainder of the Fourth Plan period (1978-82), higher
growth should be possible. To achieve this, it will be indispensable to
increase domestic savings, primarily by raising the rate of growth of budgetary
revenues, and improving the financial equilibrium and low productivity of
State Economic Enterprises. The consequent reduction in the public sector
deficit should help both to maintain external equilibrium and to moderate the
pace of inflation.
19.        A major medium and long-term problem is the high and rising level
of unemployment and underemployment. To alleviate this, will require a high
growth rate to be resumed in the long run, with more emphasis than hitherto
on comparatively labor-intensive commodities and techniques of production.
Moreover, increased attention to agricultural development, by reducing the
disparities of income both between the agricultural and non-agricultural
sectors and between rich and poor farmers, should further improve Turkey's
income distribution. Similarly, the tax system needs to be restructured in
such a way as to make it more progressive (as proposed in the new tax law
which is before Parliament), while the government continues its already rather
successful policy of reducing the inequality of living standards by providing
for basic needs through public expenditure. In the longer run, Turkey will
have to formulate policies which would help curb the population increase which
has, to a large extent, dampened the benefits of growth so far.



- 7 -
20.        The extensive short-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, giving it an unattractive maturity
structure, and causing a sharp rise in debt service payments. At the end of
1977, the country's total external indebtedness amounted to approximately
$10.0 billion, of which about $5.8 billion (excluding $409 million owed to
IMF from both figures) was short-term, most of which is likely to be rerolled
or restructured into medium-term borrowings as mentioned in paragraph 16. The
remaining $4.2 billion was mainly public and publicly guaranteed medium and
long-term debt. Of this, about one third was owed to international organi-
zations, mainly the Bank ($0.8 billion, plus $0.6 billion in committed but
undisbursed loans) and the European Investment Bank; and about one half to
foreign governments and government agencies, notably those of the United
States, West Germany, Canada, and the USSR. In 1977, debt service payments
(including interest on short-term debt) amounted to 15.0 percent of exports of
goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
21.        The first objective of a prudent debt management policy should be
an adequate restructuring of the short term liabilities following upon the
first agreement reached at the OECD consortium meeting (para 16).   A deter-
mined medium- and long-term borrowing effort during the next few years should
restore a satisfactory balance between short and longer-term debt. But
despite the Government's current restructuring efforts, a substantial increase
in debt service payments is inevitable. The debt service ratio can be expected
to rise to about 23 percent in 1978 and peak at anywhere between 30 to 40
percent in the early eighties, depending on the rerolling and restructuring
terms ultimately agreed to by commercial banks and other bilateral creditors
and export financing agencies. In these circumstances and until the outcome
of the restructuring negotiations as well as the strategy of the Government in
its Fourth (1978-82) Development Plan becomes available, it does not appear
meaningful to venture firm projections on growth, balance of payments or debt
service. However, if as the new Government intends, Turkey pursues sound
medium-term and debt management policies and shows the same seriousness as
it has shown in its short-term policies since assuming office, and as the
financial consequences of the recent crisis are gradually remedied, the debt
service ratio should decline after reaching a peak in the early eighties.
Although a tight balance of payments situation is likely to remain a medium-
term feature of the economy, Turkey would continue to have a substantial
borrowing capacity for medium- and long-term funds provided the present
short-term debt is restructured on adequate terms and future short-term
borrowing is strictly contained. However the situation will need to be
carefully watched and evaluated as soon as a more concrete basis for doing
so becomes available.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY 1/
22.        The 1970 economic stabilization program and devaluation of the
Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, enabled Bank Group
1/   Part II is substantially the same as Part II in the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President on the Livestock IV and Northern Forestry
Projects, Reports Nos. P-2332-TU and P-2333-TU, dated 12 May 1978
and approved on 1 June 1978.



- 8 -
lending, which had previously been intermittent, to be established on a
continuing basis at a high level. As of April 30, 1978, the Bank Group had
lent $1,456 million to Turkey through 49 lending operations (or 43 projects,
since both loans and credits were provided for some projects), including 14
IDA credits totalling $178 million. Fourteen of these operations have been
in agriculture and rural development (including multipurpose projects),
eighteen in industry (including DFCs), ten in power, and the rest in urban
development, transportation, education and tourism. Agriculture and rural
development account for 24 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for
about 42 percent and power for about 24 percent. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30,
1978, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Implementation of projects has been satisfactory in the private
sector, but much less so in the public sector where significant delays
resulted from political uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies,
staffing problems and related administrative delays. Disbursements have
consequently been slower than expected. To improve this situation, the
Government and the Bank in June 1975 initiated joint reviews to identify
and resolve key bottlenecks impeding satisfactory project implementation.
So far, six such reviews have taken place, the most recent one in March 1978.
The results have been mixed, with improvements having occurred in adminis-
trative areas, e.g training programs and speeding-up of disbursement actions,
but with so far only modest impact on key policy problems, whose resolution
has been considerably delayed or prevented up to now by frequent changes in
coalition governments. Loan disbursements as of December 31, 1977, amounted
to 70 percent of appraisal estimates and 83 percent of revised estimates.
A comprehensive analysis of the main sector policy constraints which lay at
the root of inadequate project implementation was carried out with the new
Government in March 1978, and further discussed during the President's meetings
with the Prime Minister and other key ministers in April 1978. It is antici-
pated that as a follow-up on these discussions, the new coordination mechanism
being established in Turkey, will be able to take effective steps to improve
implementation of on-going projects, and accelerate disbursements further, to
provide a sound basis for expanding the Bank's future contribution to Turkey's
development. The sector policy perspectives outlined by the new Government,
and actions it has already initiated since coming into power, if followed by
sustained efforts on the part of the administration and by Cabinet decisions
to remove bottlenecks, should enable project performance to take a turn for
the better and strengthen the Bank's activities in Turkey.
24.       Bank lending has so far been mainly directed at supporting Turkish
efforts to improve: (a) income distribution and the level of living stand-
ards, through rural development efforts, urban planning, and increased employ-
ment and income opportunities; (b) the long-term capacity to earn or save
foreign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agro-industrial exports
and tourism; (c) lagging public sector saving, through the encouragement of
improved management and financing of the investments and operations of the
SEEs; and (d) institution-building in key public services, through selective
assistance for infrastructure. In light of the new Government's program,



- 9 -
which will be progressively refined and specified as the draft 5-year Plan
for 1978-82 takes shape by the end of this year, it will be necessary for the
Bank to review jointly with the Turkish authorities, how best its lending and
technical assistance can meet the above objectives, without facing the policy
and institutional obstacles encountered in the past. Pending the outcome of
this review, which should be carried out in the coming months, it is proposed
to continue to devote the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors,
of which agriculture and industry are the most important. In agriculture,
emphasis is being put on rural development, the strengthening of agricultural
credit mechanisms, livestock, forestry, and fruit and vegetables. Industry
(including DFCs), where promotion of exports and employment, together with the
gradual strengthening of the SEEs are the key tasks, will also receive sig-
nificant support. This program is supplemented by projects in power, urban
development and transportation.
25.       Two projects, the Fourth Livestock Development and Northern Forestry
Projects have already been approved by the Executive Directors earlier this
month. With the proposed project, a total of $205 million will have been
provided to Turkey in the current fiscal year. Projects under preparation for
FY79 and future fiscal years include:   in agriculture, rural development in
Erzurum, a second fruit and vegetable project, seed production, grain storage;
in industry, a second IGSAS fertilizer project in Central Anatolia, moderniza-
tion of public and private sector textile production, and a third forest
industries project in northern Turkey; in power, a hydroelectric project; in
transportation, port rehabilitation; and in urban development, a possible
sites and services project.
26.       At the end of 1977, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 18 percent; its
share of Turkey's estimated total external debt (including short-term obli-
gations) was about 8 percent. The expected conversion of a large part of
this short-term debt into medium and long-term debt will cause the Bank's
share of medium and long-term debt to fall sharply, to around 10 percent by
1980. Thereafter, assuming the currently projected increase in Bank lending,
the share would increase. The Bank's share of service payments on medium and
long-term debt is expected to follow a similar path, dropping from 20 percent
in 1977 to about 8 percent in 1980, but rising thereafter.
27.       IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, and tourism, and has an
investment in the largest private development finance company, TSKB. As of
April 30, 1978, gross IFC commitments totalled $157 million, of which $76
million were still held by IFC. The Corporation is currently investigating
additional investment opportunities in the industrial sector, including motor
bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder liners, and possibly aluminium
products.



- 10 -
PART III - THE STEEL INDUSTRY AND ERDEMIR
A.   The Turkish Steel Industry
28.       The modern steel industry in Turkey began in the 1930's with the
establishment of the Karabuk integrated plant in northern Turkey. Erdemir,
(hereafter also referred to as 'the Company') the second integrated and only
flat steel producer, began operating at Eregli, on the Black Sea coast about
300 km east of Istanbul, in 1965. A third plant, located at Iskenderun in
south Turkey and constructed with assistance from Russia, started production
at the end of 1976. Besides these large integrated plants, all majority-owned
by the State and using mainly blast furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces, Turkey
has about 20 smaller plants, most privately owned, and based on electric fur-
naces using scrap as raw material; most are located in Western Turkey. The
annual production capacity of the three integrated steel producers is at
present 2.4 million tons of liquid steel - 1.6 million for non-flat and 0.8
million for flat products. The private smaller plants, together have an
annual capacity of 950,000 tons liquid steel for non-flat products. Thus
installed capacity in Turkey is for about 3.4 million tons of liquid steel per
annum.
29.       Growth in steel consumption has considerably exceeded the growth of
other economic indicators as well as earlier forecasts. From 1963 to 1976,
GNP grew annually by 6.9 percent; industrial output by 9.9 percent; and con-
struction by 7.9 percent. However, steel consumption increased by about 13
percent per annum, and reached 3.5 million tons in 1976. Relatively, steel
consumption in Turkey, increased faster than in most other countries of the
world. Nevertheless, Turkey's 1976 per capita liquid steel consumption of 110
kg was still low, compared with 500-700 kg per capita in the USA, Germany and
Japan, 350-450 kg in the UK, France and Italy, but already higher than in
Brazil and Mexico (85 kg). The main consumption has been of non-flat products,
reflecting large infrastructure and heavy construction-related investments in
a still developing industrial economy. However, the share of flat products in
total consumption has grown from 32 percent in 1962 to 36 percent in 1976,
reflecting the growing importance of domestic production of items such as
vehicles, machinery, appliances and containers. Consumption of flat products
was 1.3 million tons in 1976 and an estimated 1.6 million tons in 1977.
30.       Total steel production grew by about 13 percent per annum from the
early 1960s to reach 2.6 million tons in 1976 part of which was derived from
imported semi-finished products and the industry's output is sold on the
domestic market. Over the same period, imports rose from 0.1 to 1.6 million
tpy, and provided an increasing share of total supply of steel products,
especially flat products. In 1977, imports of semi-finished and finished
products, worth almost $700 million accounted for 40 percent of steel consump-
tion.
31.       With a projected growth rate of GNP of around 6 percent per annum
and industrial growth at 8 percent per annum, demand for non-flat and flat
steel products together is estimated to increase from 3.5 million tons in 1976
to at least 6.7 million tons in 1985. While these growth figures may be modi-
fied by the new government when the draft Fourth Five Year Plan is finalized



- 11 -
later this year, the demand for steel products would still be substantially
higher than the 1976 figure, even if the growth rates were adjusted downwards.
The share of flat products is expected to continue to rise, following the
experience in other countries with a similar economic development pattern,
to reach 45 percent in 1985. This would result in a demand for flat steel
products of 2.9 million tons in 1985.
32.       The Government, in its medium-term planning, continues to accord
high priority to domestic steel production as a critical input for the
industrial and construction sectors. It is accordingly carrying out a major
expansion of non-flat products capacity at the Iskenderun plant. The scope
and timing of the fourth steel complex, now in an early planning stage and
proposed to be located at Sivas in central Anatolia, has not yet been decided.
Flat product capacity will be built up initially through the proposed project.
Finally, initial planning is underway for additional flat steel capacity of 2
million tpy at Iskenderun, to be implemented after the expansion noted above.
These investments would make Turkey self-sufficient in all basic steel products
by the late 1980's; however, the timetable of construction is likely to be
somewhat less rapid, so that imports will have to continue to provide a
significant proportion of total supply.
33.       The justification for an expansion of Erdemir is based on saving
foreign exchange, transforming domestic raw materials into higher-valued
products, and increasing the companies' scale of production to enable them to
operate at competitive prices. Turkey is self-sufficient in low-grade coal
and lignite and produces the greater part of its iron ore needs (see also
para. 57). The industrial sector includes major steel consumers, producing
mostly for the domestic market at present but with export potential in some
lines, for whom a competitive price is essential.
34.       There would be a supply gap in flat steel products of 1.4 million
tons in 1985, assuming the expected production build-up of Erdemir. Addi-
tional capacity at Iskenderun, if built, is not expected to become available
before 1986. Nevertheless, to ensure a balanced long-term increase in capaci-
ty, (as done under Stage I) the Government agreed to coordinate future invest-
ments in flat products taking into account market conditions in Turkey (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.06).
35.       Erdemir is an efficient steel producer and the Company sets its own
prices for its products, which are, however, reviewed informally with the
Government. It increased its prices in 1977 and 1978 by levels sufficient to
cover increases in its costs and to generate part of funds needed for expan-
sion.  The prices for Erdemir's product-mix are expected to be about in line
with the opportunity costs of Turkey's imports during project period. To help
ensure the maintenance of a sound steel pricing policy that permit Erdemir
under normal circumstances to operate effectively and profitably, agreement
was reached on criteria that would guide the Company in fixing the prices of
its products. In addition, as under the Stage I loan, Erdemir will consult
the Bank prior to any such price changes (Project Agreement, Section 4.07).
B.   Erdemir
36.       Ownership.  Erdemir was established in 1960, by a Law which pro-
vides inter alia that, regardless of the size of the public shareholding, the



- 12 -
Company will be run according to private commercial law.  Fifty-one percent of
the shares are held in equal parts by two state-owned companies, Karabuk and
Sumerbank, while private and quasi-private organizations and individuals hold
the remainder.
37.       With the provision to Erdemir in June 1977 of a Government 5-year
interest free loan of TL 1,200 million ($48 million) which is convertible
to equity (para 43), the direct and indirect Government ownership of Erdemir
may rise considerably above the present 51 percent. However, the new Govern-
ment has confirmed its intention to retain the present semi-private status
of Erdemir. Since its semi-private status is of great significance to the
success of the project and long-term company operations, the Government has
agreed to maintain its present status for the life of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Sections 4.03, 5.01(g) and 5.02 (b)).
38.       Management.  During the Stage I implementation period, Erdemir's
management suffered from frequent changes of Chairmen, members of the Board
and Presidents, at times interference by the Board, in day-to-day operational
and administrative matters, as well as appointment of some insufficiently
qualified senior personnel. As a result, the Company's management was not as
effective as both Turkey and the Bank might have wished. In light of this
recent history, the Bank conveyed its concern to both Turkey and Erdemir. The
new government, itself very anxious to ensure efficient management in the Com-
pany has appointed as Chairman of the Board a prominent steel industry manager
who had been a senior executive of the Company for many years. It has also
appointed as President, the highly respected former Vice-President of Opera-
tion. These new appointments confirm the new government's assurances that
appointments to Erdemir will be based on technical and managerial competence.
In addition to this, the Government and the Company have assured that the
Company will have as President, Vice President for Expansion and Stage II
Project Manager, persons whose qualifications are consistent with duties, job
descriptions and functional relationships as stated in the Company's standard
procedures and which have been found satisfactory by the Bank. While rela-
tively minor reallocation of duties among managers must be expected, the
deliberation and care with which the new appointments have been made, hold
promise that the new senior management will be effective and will continue to
be supported by a capable middle management.
39.       Operating History and Stage I Expansion Project (Loan 817-TU).
Erdemir started operating in 1965 with a rated annual raw steel capacity of
470,000 tpy and fixed assets of $255 million. It has operated at essentially
full capacity. In 1972 it embarked, with financial support from the Bank, AID
and the U.S. Export-Import Bank, on its Stage I expansion, which should bring
its annual installed ingot steel capacity to 1.5 million tpy (equivalent to
1.1 million tpy of finished products) in late 1978.
40.       This project encountered varied problems, although all of them have
by now been resolved, with a three years completion delay and a cost overrun
of 75 percent in US$ equivalent terms and 110 percent in local currency terms,



- 13 -
the estimated investment in Stage I project is now $425 million instead of
$243 million estimated during appraisal in 1971. The overrun stemmed from:
(a) an increase in project scope, agreed with the Bank, involving a 20 percent
increase in finished products, because market growth was faster than antici-
pated; (b) delay in its completion, partly due to difficulties between Erdemir
and its previous engineering consultants; and (c) exceptionally high inflation,
in both foreign exchange and especially local costs. The problems were
aggravated by the abovementioned frequent changes in senior management.
41.       The cost overrun required a change in the financing plan.  It was
originally foreseen that all local costs would be financed by internally
generated funds. However, the Government had to make available to Erdemir
$83 million equivalent (at then-prevailing exchange rates) in Government and
other funds, (including the interim loan referred to in paras 37 and 43).
42.       Financial Performance and Capital Structure.  As a result of the
above, the Company's capital and financial performance were inevitably affected
during the Stage I implementation. Due to increased borrowings for Stage I
expansion, in 1977, Company's debt/equity ratio peaked at around 83/17. With
high financial charges on increased borrowings, and the Government's influence,
exercised during discussions with the Company, on steel prices from rising too
rapidly, net profit before taxes as a percentage of net sales declined to an
average of 8 percent over the last three years (1975-77), despite a seller's
market for flat steel products. The Company's current ratio reached 1.3 and
debt service coverage fell to 1.0.
43.       The Government and Erdemir's major shareholders have now, however,
agreed to the Bank's request to improve the Company's financial structure by
an infusion of TL 1,200 million ($48 million equivalent) in new paid-up
equity. This requires an amendment to Erdemir's founding law. Hence, the
Bank agreed, as an interim solution, to a five-year zero interest Government
loan of TL 1,200 million to Erdemir in June 1977, to be converted into equity
subsequent to parliamentary approval of the amendment. The necessary amendment
has been submitted to the Parliament and its early passage is anticipated by
the Government.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
44.       Turkey and Erdemir requested Bank financing for the Stage II expan-
sion project, in December 1976. Even taking into account the Stage I expan-
sion project (which is nearing completion) flat steel capacity in Turkey is
still falling far short of domestic market demand. In view of this and the
high priority commanded by the gradual development of the steel industry in
Turkey, the Bank agreed to consider the proposal. The proposed project was
designed by U.S. Steel Engineers and Consultants (UEC) in broader terms in
1971, along with Stage I, and detailed by them by the end of 1976 to reflect
the latest market and operating conditions. It was appraised in October 1977.



- 14 -
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in May, 1978 with a delegation
which was led by Mr. Guven, Chief Financial and Economic Counsellor, Turkish
Embassy in Washington, D.C. and included Mr. Aktutay, the new President of
Erdemir.
Project Description
45.       The project would expand Erdemir's production capacity from its
planned level proposed at the end of Stage I of 1.5 million tpy of liquid steel
to 2.0 million tpy, equivalent to an increase from 1.1 to 1.5 million tpy of
finished products. The project complements the Stage I expansion, by provid-
ing balancing facilities necessary to fully utilize the inherent iron and
steel-making and hot-rolling capacities installed under Stage I.
46.       The technology would be mainly an extension of the conventional
and established technology already utilized for Stage I, which is considered
to be appropriate. Major new facilities include additions to raw materials
handling systems to increase overall handling capacity and improve quality
control and operating flexibilility, to support iron production of 1.8 million
tpy, and also provision of a new turbo blower. Steel-making capacity would be
increased to a level of 2.0 million tpy through the provision of new scrap
preparation facilities, cranes, automatic baler and shear, and manual burning
beds. A continuous slab caster and other improvements in the slab yard and
hot strip mill are included to achieve capacity of 1.7 million tpy. Finally,
improvements in hot and cold rolled finishing facilities would be made to
achieve a capacity of 1.5 million tpy of finished products.
47.       Facilities to reduce consumption of energy and operating costs as
well as for environmental protection, are also included in the project.
Expanded utilities, services and effluent treatment and monitoring facilities
will be provided. The latter will include a new biological treatment plant
designed to treat coke plant effluents and possibly overall plant and company
housing area wastes generated by existing operations as well as by future
Stage I and II operations, thus reducing present and preventing further con-
tamination of the Eregli bay waters, which currently affects fishing and
pollutes nearby beaches. A new bag house filter system for sinter plant dust,
is also envisaged.
48.       Finally, the project includes the feasibility study of Erdemir's
Stages III and IV expansions, which, for technical reasons, need to be studied
together. This study will include recommendations for adequate treatment of
wastes anticipated from these expansions and Eregli township. However,
financing this study implies no Bank commitment to financing the resulting
project. The details of the proposed project are amplified in the Loan
and Project Summary, and in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 1875a-TU dated
31 May 1978 being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
49.       It might be noted that Erdemir agreed to exclude from the scope
of the proposed project, its originally proposed addition of 250,000 tpy of
tinplate capacity at a cost of $110 million since a review initiated by the
Bank proved this component to be uneconomic at this time. More generally,



- 15 -
so as to ensure available resources are fully devoted to Stage II project
implementation, Erdemir agreed to limit capital expenditures outside Stage I
and Stage II works to no more than the TL equivalent of $4 million per annum
through 1982 and $8 million per annum thereafter (Project Agreement, Section
4.04).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
50.       The total cost of the proposed project, excluding about $20 million
for interest during construction and some incremental working capital, but
including all contingencies, is estimated to be $301 million. Out of $151
million in foreign exchange, $145 million is the direct foreign exchange cost.
Marginal refinements of these estimates are possible following engineering
consultants review of design engineering and cost estimates, to be completed
by October 30, 1978, prior to initiating the tendering process.
51.       The proposed Bank loan covers about 28 percent of total cost
including interest during construction and about 55 percent of the foreign
exchange. Erdemir has finalized agreements with European banks for a loan
of $8 million to finance Nippon Kokan K.K. engineering services. It has also
received a firm supplier credit offer for $20 million for financing some
equipment items. Conclusion of these agreements for $28 million is a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (c)). The Govern-
ment and the Company will seek, and it is expected will successfully obtain,
supplier-arranged financing for another $22 million worth of selected equip-
ment. To the extent that the marginal refinements in cost estimates, fol-
lowing the engineering consultants' review, entail an increase in foreign
exchange cost, however small, the Government and the Company would also obtain
supplier-arranged financing for this amount over and above the said $22
million. As these financing arrangements will be linked to procurement of
selected items, for which bid invitations are to be issued only next year, in
line with project implementation schedule, it is not appropriate to make the
completion of these financing arrangements a condition of loan effectiveness.
However, as these arrangements are an integral part of the financing plan,
failure to obtain these amounts by December 31, 1979, would be a condition of
default, Section 5.01(j).
52.       Erdemir will finance most of the local project cost, including the
interest during construction and increase in net working capital, from inter-
nally generated funds. The foreign exchange, equivalent to $23 million,
towards these two items, will be provided to the Company from Turkey's own
foreign exchange resources. The Government has agreed to provide, or cause to
be provided, any remaining funds needed to complete the project in the form
of paid-up equity or in interest-free loans with a maturity of not less than
20 years, so as to bring the debt/equity ratio of the Company to at least
60:40 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). To ensure prompt provision of funds as
needed, Erdemir would each year prepare updated 5-year financial projections
showing annual estimated needs along with a financing plan for meeting the
needs of the coming year, review the projection and plan with the Bank, and
supply its financing requests to its shareholders and the Government by
September 30 of each year, in time to permit either inclusion of the item



- 16 -
in the Government's budget or alternative timely action e.g. issues of new
shares (Project Agreement, Section 4.08). For 1978, the Bank reviewed
Erdemir's latest financial projections, and found Erdemir will generate needed
domestic currency requirements.
53.       The proposed Bank loan would be to Turkey.  As under Stage I, the
proceeds would be onlent to Erdemir for 14 years, including 3-1/2 years grace,
and an interest rate of 10 percent per annum. These terms correspond to
Erdemir's projected profitability and repayment capability, with the Company
bearing the foreign exchange risk (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The
signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and Erdemir,
containing inter alia these provisions, is a condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
Project Execution and Operation
54.       Erdemir will implement the project, with the technical advice and
assistance of engineering consultants, who are acceptable to the Bank and have
been appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Project Agree-
ment, Section 2.02). Nippon Kokan K.K. (Japan) has been selected from among
the three firms which submitted proposals, and the contract with them was
recently signed. About 98 man-years of engineering services are envisaged,
at a rate of about $6,000 per man-month. Much of the engineering work will
be done in Turkey and about 60 percent of the man-hours will be from Turkish
employees working under direct control of the engineer. The Company's expe-
rience with delays and cost overruns in Stage I have led it, after analyzing
the reasons for these delays, to reach arrangements with NKK for more effective
assistance with project implementation. The contract gives significantly more
responsibility and authority to the engineers, than in Stage I. Their services
will also be provided under more effective organizational arrangements for
project management. The purview of their services include staffing planning,
expediting, follow-up, and critical path analyses and control, in addition to
the usual functions of engineering design, preparation of bid documents, bid
evaluation, supervision of construction, and startup.
55.       An implementation schedule has been drawn up which will be used to
monitor project execution, and key dates have been agreed with the Bank. The
engineers will be responsible in addition for developing a complete PERT sched-
ule for implementation, to be reviewed, updated and reported to the Bank on
a quarterly basis. These arrangements, together with Government's assurances
on ensuring sound and qualified management, should facilitate proper and
timely project execution.
56.       US Steel Engineers and Consultants (UEC) currently provides special-
ized technical assistance to the Company on a continuing basis. Erdemir will
continue this arrangement, which is critical to the attainment of efficient
operations at a high level of capacity utilization, through the end of 1983
(Project Agreement, Section 3.07). This assistance will include the main
training needed, which is for the basic oxygen furnace/continuous casting
complex; suppliers will provide additional training.



- 17 -
57.       Erdemir's annual raw material requirements at full production,
include 2.6 million tpy of iron ore, 1.6 million tpy of coal, and 0.5 million
tpy of limestone. Most of the iron ore will come mainly from existing mines
and possibly from new developments at Divrigi and Hasancelebi in central
Turkey, with about 20 percent of requirements coming from imports. Enough
limestone is available domestically. Demand for coal may exceed domestic
supply in the early 1980s. The Government agreed to permit imports of coal
and iron ore as needed to ensure full utilization of installed capacity (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.04).
58.       Erdemir's present permanent work force is about 10 percent higher
than the level recommended by its consultants. Erdemir has agreed to maintain
employment policies to increase the Company's labor productivity (Project
Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)), so that future increase in labor force will be
held to a minimum as production, through the project, increases.
Future Profitability and Financial Position
59.       The financial projections assume that the buildup in production
following the completion of Stage I facilities, will take effect in late 1978,
while the Stage II facilities will start producing by end 1981 and reach full
capacity in 1985.
60.       A 40 percent increase in steel prices in September 1977 in Turkey,
and a further 24 percent increase in March 1978, are together expected to
improve the financial position of the Company in the short term. The years
prior to the Stage II production buildup, are extremely important for the
Company's future financial condition.
61.       With the buildup in Stage I production beginning in late 1978, the
financial position is expected to improve continuously throughout the Stage
II implementation period. Sales are expected to increase from 1.1 million tpy
in 1978 to 1.5 million in 1985. Operating costs are expected to fall by 12
percent (due mainly to increased labor productivity) after completion of Stage
I, and by another 7 percent after completion of Stage II. Net profits before
tax as a percentage of net sales, are expected to improve from 9 percent in
1977 to 13 percent in 1978 and to increase further thereafter. This should
provide a cash buildup in the 1980s, needed ahead of the envisaged (much
larger) Stage III expansion project. The increasing profits, combined with
dividend restrictions (para. 62), will cause the current debt/equity ratio of
83/17 to come down, if equity of $48 million equivalent is paid in during
1978, to 54/46 in 1979, and to improve further thereafter.
62.       In keeping with prudent financial management, and bearing in mind
Erdemir's difficulties with low debt/equity and liquidity ratios, the follow-
ing financial covenants were also agreed: (i) Erdemir should at all times
maintain a 60/40 debt/equity ratio (Project Agreement, Section 4.03);
(ii) Erdemir should maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3 (Project Agree-
ment, Section 4.06); and (iii) dividend payments, until project completion,



- 18 -
should be restricted to private non-founders and would be paid thereafter,
only if after such payments the debt/equity ratio would remain below 60/40
and the current ratio above 1.3 (Project Agreement, Section 4.05).
63.       The incremental financial rate of return is 18 percent.  A 10
percent increase in investment costs would reduce it to 17 percent, which
together with a slippage of one year in start-up would lower it to 15 percent.
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       All equipment covered by the Bank loan would be procured after
international competitive bidding/shopping in accordance with Bank guidelines
except for proprietory or semi-proprietory items required for reasons of com-
patibility with existing equipment and standardization as a result of tech-
nical and design considerations. The Bank loan may finance not more than $15
million of such items. Suppliers of major items will be prequalified, and for
purposes of bid comparison, a 15 percent margin of preference, or the appli-
cable import duty in Turkey, whichever is the lesser, will be given to clearly
identified Turkish bids. The Bank loan will also finance the foreign exchange
costs of Stages III/IV feasibility study, involving up to $500,000 in retroac-
tive financing for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1978. This study should
go ahead immediately, as its findings may affect the design of raw material
handling facilities under Stage II. It will require about three man-years of
consultant services, at a rate of almost $10,000 per man-month, as this kind
of service is relatively costly. The Bank loan will also finance foreign
exchange costs of technical assistance, training and other services. Civil
works will not be financed out of the Bank loan, but will be subject to com-
petition within Turkey. The Bank loan is expected to be about fully disbursed
by the end of 1982.
65.       As mentioned in para 51, supplier financing will cover the $8 mil-
lion cost of NKK's engineering services. $20 million equivalent of equipment
is also being procured with suppliers' credits, for which the Company has
already received offers. A tentative list of items of equipment, whose
procurement will be linked to supplier-arranged financing, and therefore be
outside Bank procurement procedures, has been agreed upon. This list will be
reviewed with the Bank in October 1978, following NKK's engineering review and
preparation of specifications. During this review, bid packages for all items
to be financed by the proposed loan will be finalized, as also the items to be
procured through supplier-arranged financing for an amount of $22 million,
which will be subject to procedures related to such financing.
Benefits and Risks
66.       The project has a relatively high economic rate of return of 17
percent, as compared to other steel projects around the world. Erdemir has
operated its present facilities efficiently. It is expected that on comple-
tion of Stage II, Erdemir's production costs will decline by 7 percent,
over a 12 percent reduction anticipated on full utilization of capacity
being installed under Stage I. These results are mainly derived from the
economies of scale which Erdemir will enjoy on project completion.



- 19 -
67.       Net foreign exchange savings of the project would amount to about
$95 million equivalent per annum at full production. An assured, fairly
competitive local flat steel supply will stimulate Turkey's steel-consuming
industries and the development of the wider industrial sector.
68.       Although the proposed project requires only a small additional
labor force, there will also be indirect job creation in Erdemir's supplier
and user industries. The project will indirectly provide a further stimulus
to the town of Eregli, which has a population of around 50,000. Its growth
has been based on the steel plant, where about 8,000 people work in operations
and expansion, representing, with their families, about three quarters of the
town's population.
69.       The main project risk is the possibility of implementation delays
and ineffective cost controls. However, Erdemir's new approach to project
management as evidenced by the new appointments to top positions in the
Company, and the strengthened role of the engineers should reduce this risk
to acceptable levels. This will be continuously monitored by Erdemir, the
engineers and the Bank, to avoid problems of the type experienced in Stage I.
70.       There are no special technical risks, since all basic iron and
steel-making operations are to be continued from Stage I and represent conven-
tional modern steel plant technology. No major (or abnormal) commercial or
economic risks are foreseen either, as flat steel production in Turkey will be
below domestic demand for many years to come. A 10 percent shortfall in
revenue from the levels forecast would lower the return to 14 percent; a 10
percent increase in investment costs would lower it to about 16 percent, which
together with a delay in startup of one year, would reduce it further to 14
percent. These lower returns are not only acceptable, but attractive for a
steel manufacturing project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Erdemir, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
72.       Special features of the Loan and Project Agreements of particular
interest are:
(a) The following are special events of suspension and default,
namely:
(i) Any action taken resulting in a change in Erdemir's
private status (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(g));
and



- 20 -
(ii) Failure to obtain supplier-arranged financing in an
amount of $22 million by December 31, 1979 (Loan
Agreement, Section 5.01(j)).
(b) Other special conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) authorization and ratification of the execution of the
Project Agreement (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a));
(ii) authorization and ratification of the execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
Erdemir providing for relending the Bank loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)); and
(iii) conclusion of agreements for $28 million foreign
exchange financing (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 15, 1978
Washington, D.C.



TABLE 3A                                             ANNEX I
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1  of  21
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
---------------                              TURKEY                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      780.6                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     558.4                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE          COLOMBIA        IRAN           ITALY
--  -___ -_ --------__ -___ -__ -_ ---_ ---- --------_ --_ -     ----_ -_ --_ ------_ -_ ----
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     270.0*    500.0*    990.0*               350.0*      670.0*    1910.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            27.8      35.6       41.2                20.6        29.0        53.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       35.0       46.0       53.0                18.0        18.0       178.0
PER so. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        52.0       65.0       74.0                93.0       107.0       266.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         44.8       40.6       39.4                44.3/a      45.9        18.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           16.9      14.4       12.5                11.0        18.5         9.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       187.0/a,b153.0/a         *                 70.0/b    140.0         29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       49.3       54.4       56.9                58.5        48.8        71.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.9       2.6/b,c  2.3                   3.2         3.4         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  3.0       2.5        2.5                 2.9         3.1         0.8
URBAN                                  5.1/a     4.9/d      4.2                 5.5/c       4.8         0.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           31.9       38.7      42.6                60.3        41.0        51.5
AGE STRUCTURE CPERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.3       41.7       41.7                45.6        46.0/a      24.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.2       54.0       53.9                50.4        SO.0 7     65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.5       4.3        4.4                 3.0         40         10.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9       0.8                 1.0         1.o/a       0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.1/e     1.2 /a              1.6/d       1-9/a       0.9/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..        ..         ,.               306.9       662.4
USERS f% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             5.3       8.2         ..                  ..        10.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       13000.0  l4000.0/f 16400-0/b                6200.0     8700.0    19600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CX)         71.7       63.4       52.5/c              39.0        43.0        19.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           9.7/d    11.9 i    13.37w                 7.0         2.1         3.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5  OF HOUSEHOLDS           33.o/e f 32.8M    28.0/e                  3,.9 /e    29.7 /b
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            61 07T   60.6 W   56. pi                  60.1 -r     54.47         .
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             42/  t   2.           3.5/e               35         4   t
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEIJLDS            10.6jm    9-4 F    11574                  10.1 7     12.7           .
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..      39.0 /1       ..                 ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                     0.7 /7i
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3220.0OL   2250.0    1880.0              2110.0      3300.0       550.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3260.0/h  1770.011 1140.0 /f                  *-     3230.0       470.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           650.0      500.0      470.0               430.0      780.0        90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         110.0     112.0      113.0               92.0        90.0       126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              75 3       78.0      76.0                51.0        53.0       100.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            .       2 2.0/k    24.7               29.0/f      14.0/C      42.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             16.0/e    14.7/1       ..                 8.4         ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADUUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       75.0      104.0      108.0              100.0        83.0       110.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     14.0       28.0       30.0               23.0        26.0        60.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(CIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0       11.0       11.0               11.0        12.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     18.0       14.0       15.0               20.0         3.0        26.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CX)                40.0/i    55.0/r        ..                73.0          ..       97.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.0        1.9                                       2.2/a,d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      81.0       66.0      52.0                   *-       87.0/a,e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 29.0       40.0      57.0                   .        25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY CX)                    2.0       18.0         *-                  *-        4.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         49.0       89.0     107.0               105.0        93.0       218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0        4.0        8.0               11.0        10.0       190.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          102.0      247.0     400.0               414.0       246.0      2262.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.8        0.7        2.3                2.7         0.4         5.3
EE                                                                       -------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 21
NOTES
UnIlss ocherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Estinete between
1973 and 1976.
CGNP per capits data era based on the World B.ok Atlre nathodolugy (1974-76 basit).
eO The long-tern etrategy of Turkieh planning currently givee the 1970 levl of Italy a. its objective.
TuRo(EY      1960    /a  1955-60;    /b  Darived fror  ople survey estimates (9,700 households), night be undereetia ted;    /c  Ctvilian labor force (1965);
/d  1965, including peek see.on egricultoral uodarerployment;    /s  1963;              L   Dispoeable ion-e;    /A  1962;    Lb  Incloding
assiLtant -ur.e.  and nidwives;    /L  Persons si  years And over who tell the census takera that they can read end write.
1970    Ia  1967;    /b  EIculdee 17  aeatern provinces;           L.  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    Le  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 aed over
to total labor force;    /f  Civilian labor force;    /R  Incloding peak se.on  gricultoral underemployment;    /h  Dieposable
imoose (1968);    /i  Agricultorel land (1973), ignoring landless households;    /1  Including eseistant norses and nidwivee;
/k  1964-66;    LI  1967-68;    In  Persons sic years and ov-r who tell the census takers that they can reed and write.
MOST RECENT ESTIATE:    I   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over ts total labor force;    Lb  Civilian labor force (1977);
/c  1977;    /d  Including peek season agricultural undereocploysent (1977);    Ia  Diiposable incone (1973);
If  Including aesictant nurses and nidiv-s.
COLfelBIA    1970    iu  Official aati,ttea based on registration show average crude birth rate for 1960-71 as 36;    lb  Rate based on burial pernits;
/c  1964-70;    /d  Rutio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /e  Econonically active population;
If 1964-66.
IRAN         1970    I   1966;    /   Urb-n only;    /c  1964-66;    id  Efcludes no-adic tribes;    L   Inside only.
ITALY        1970     /   Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 end over to total lebor force;    Lb  Hospital peronnel.
R13, M.rch 21, 1978
DEFIITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend coca IIboc I,2)                                                                         Populantion pr nur-ia person - Popolation divided by  -usbor of proctioing
Total - Total curftace  rea canprfsiig land area and inland waters.                            nae and fa.ala graduots nursee,  traied" or "nartifiad" nurses, a.      d
Agric.  -     recent enitc   f  gricultural srsa uasd t-rporarily or perna-                    ausilitry personne-  with training or esperisnce
tend7y for crops, posrtrea, markec f kitchet gardens or to lie fall.                      Popoulation per hospital bed - Population dicided by nnbsr of hospital beds
available in public and private gsosr.l and sp-clalised hoapioal and
GNP veor cupia (U7SS1  - GNP per capita catinatec at torrent narktt pricsa,                    rehabilitatIon centers; se..1dee srsiig ho-ee and .stabliens.ta  for
calcoulaed by "sae conversios, vethod us world Bank Atlaa (1973-75 basis;;                   cutodial and preventive car.
1960; 1900 and 1915 dut.:                                                                rPcaI,        un    of ceoia1   froirantarr    -Copoted fran onrgy
1lequivalent of cat food  upplies avaiable in coutry per capita pa  day;
Populunior and vital stacisnic                                                                 availsble supplies cpriae destic produotion, inparts lesa  exporta, and
Poocvunivr c(id-vear nillion)   00 of July first:  if not availabls, average                   changet in  tock  net supplies encluds antnal feed, seeds, qantitisa used
of coo cod-y-ar  otictares; 1'60, 1970 and 1975 deta.                                        In food proes Ing aed -lussa in distribution; rsquirenente wsre eri-atcd
by Put beaed on physiolo-gical usads for ..-Ia actMvty and health eonsid-
Pcouluitoc densIty - pot  qu.are us - Mid-year population per aquare kiloseter                 aring s_vironnsntal tntperatuoe, body weights, age and se  distributions of
(100 hectarecs) of cocal area.                                                              population, and alluring 101 for  aste at household level.
Ponolation dofsity-per square 1o of agric. Iand - Conputed as above for                      Par canita suoply of lretein (eras per day) - Protein content of per capita
ogricolsural land only                                                                     net eupply of food per day; - t supply of food is defined as above; require-
uers fur a1l cotries establishsd by U0DA Etonanit Research Sroine.
Vft1 uta-c-ico                                                                                 provide for a ui-iuoa aliussocs of 60 grsoa of total protein per day, snd
Crudo birth cute per tbohaend, average - Annual live births per thousand of                    20 ygren  of aninal and pulae protein, of which 10 grtna should be animal
mid-y_ac popoup. lon; ten-year orittmeti  onerages ending is 1960 and 197f,                  protein; these etanderds are Ir th.n th-se of 75 gr-s  of tonal protein
nd five-year uverage ending in 1975 for post recant estImate,                                and 23 gr-  of *nim-l protein as an average for the wrld, pxopesed by FPo
Crudo death ratreVr tho.sand.  average - Anno-l deaths per thousand of nid-year                in the Third World Fond Sarvey
populatioq; ten-year arithtla*vragss ending in 1960 and 1970 and  five-                    Per capita oroteis sunply frn  an_Il and pulse - Protein supply of faod
year average ecding in 1975 for noat recent ostin ts                                         derived frosm anials and pulses ia greas per day.
Iufant oortalirr rata (/thou) -              tnhcal deetbo of infants under one year of age  De-th rate (/thoul .ee.  1-4 - Annual deeths per thousand in age group 1-4
Pr thousand live birthus                                                                     years, no children in this age group; soggested as an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth fyrW) - overage number of years of life renminig at                   malnutrition
birth; ucually fite-year everageese ding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dsvelop-
ing co_ctric_                                                                             Education
SrosscorDoductoin rate- Av"rag  number of  live daughters a            wom n will bear      Adju ted enrolltent ratio - ertir rchonl - EnrolL=ent of a1 ages as per-
in her nornal reproduction period if obe neperiences prsannt age-apecific                    centage of primary soon-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rat s; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for diffsrent lengtha of prinary education; for ca-tarie  cith
for dev-lopicg countries.                                                                    univsrsal education, enrol- 1ent ny seceed 1007 since s.ne pupils are below
P.polation grcwh rate (Y) - total - Cvmpound annual growth rates of eid-yssr                   or above the official sohool age
populntion for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               ud1uted *nrol7ntent ratio - secondery school - Co-p.tad as aboc-; second.ry
Populutioc growth rats (.) - urban - C_pntid likt growth rats of total                         sducation requirse  at least four years of approved prIary ipstru-tion;
pupulution; different definition-  of urban ar-as nay affect comparability of                provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions fer pupils
data unong countries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age;  orrespondeece .   cur.ss are generally eclodad.
Urban porolatioc (%I, of total) -  nRtio of urban to total population; different             Peara of schooling orovided (first nd second levels) - Total years of
doficitirns of orb-n areas usyaffect cnparability of data -son  countries.                 Yohooling; at secondary level, votationaI inatrtuctin nay be partially or
cosplately secluded.
Mgr structure (pgrnent) - Children (0-14 yours), working-age (15-64 years),                  Voc tionaL eI rolLaent f7 of  -econdarv) - locational institution  include
and retired  (65 nears and over) an percentages of mid-yar population                        technic-l, industrial or other progra which operate independently or as
Al, depend-ncy ratic -    Iatio of  population under 15 and 65 acd over to those               departments of  econdary inatitution.
of agso IS throogh 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (7) - Litsrate adults (able to read and wits) as per-
toonanic deenodeoco ratio -cRaRlo of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    centag  of total adult population aged 15 rears and ovr.
the labor force in uge group of 15-64 years.
faRuily piacino- tacceptors (cumulative, thou) - Cunulative nonber of acceptoro              gou-ing
of birth-control devices under ae piceo of outional fouily planning prUgrm                 Persooa per roan (urban) - Average number of persons per roan in occupied
oince loneptio- conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwnllifne nexlods on-pc .nsot
foill  vlanning-ouers (PI   of ardied wumsn) - Percentages of narried wonen of                 otc turns and unoccupied parts
hild-hearing age (15-44 yearn) who use birth-control devices to a11 earied                Occu.ied dwell ieg citbout pip d watar (i) - Occupied conventional dvelliogo
womeonissame ago froup.                                                                      it  urban and rural arsas without inside or outside piped eater facilities
as percentage of all occupied delling.
Onrlcoymen                                                                                   Sonsas to electricity (7. af .1 da ellgnsR) - Conventional dwellings srth
Total labor force (thousand) - Econooitally active persons, including arend                    electricity in living qnartsre as percent of total dwellings ie urban end
forcesuand uoneployed bun texludicg houer-i-e,  -tud-nta, etc.; definition-                  coral areas
in oociout countree a re coo c=perahe.                                                     Rural dwellieRs connected to electricity (2) - Cnputed as abov  for rural
Labor forte in agriculture (7) - biricoltoral labor forc  (in fanning, forestry,               dwellings only
hunting scd fishing) as percentage of thtal labor fore.
Untmeloy-d (7 of labor force) - Oconployod are  -1usl1y defined as persons who               Consuption
are able acd willing to take a Job, out of a job on a given day, ren ined out              Radio receivers (per thou eOn) - ill types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seekicg cork for apecified =icimum periud cot exceeding  ton                   tu cenera1 public per thousand of populstion; excludes unlicensed receivers
week; nay cot he cusbparabl  bere-n countries doe no different definions                      in countries and  in years when registration of radio sets ass oi effect;
ot onemployed and aource of data, eg, ouploy'ect office etatintics, s "ple                   data for recent years nay not bs canparable sitne most countries abolished
surveys ,canpulsory ucemploymnst inoucacce -licensing.
Passener cars (nr that no) - Paaesng-r oars naprise notur crar  seating
nco=e diribhuion - Percentage of priot-e inc=e (both in cash aud kind)                         Lees than eight persons; secludes abhu Ic.s..   herses end nilitary
rece-oed by richest 57, richest 207., poorest 207,, and poorest 40% of house-                vehicle.
hold,.                                                                                     Electricity f       t(kh/y  per C&D) -      -upuel con a npnion of industrial, commercial,
publ ic and private electricity in kilowatt bouns per .a.pita, geersr lly
Di-tributi-o of laud   ership -Percenta.g- of laud wned by wialthiest 107.                      based On production dat-,  ithout el7ean  fo .      lose  in grids but allow-
and poorest 102 of Ilad  wner.                                                                ing for imports and  sports of electricity.
Nswa print (kg /e per cap) - Per capt' .-.anua  conanption in bilogr-n
HesIbh and N-trition                                                                            eatinatnd fras doesetic producrion plus net isporta of newsprint.
Povulation per ohyoictac - Population dioided by number of practicing
p_yoic_anu qualified fran a medical school at onivecciry evsl.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 21
ECONOMIC DEVELOPSMENT DATA SHEET 1/
Actual                      Estimated      Crowth Rate.    Share of GDP
1970      1974       1975       1976         1977            70-77             1976
A.  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TI, Bllion, 1976 Prices)
Gross Domestio Product                423.5      557.8      607.7      659.0        695.0              7.3            100.0
G.in from Terns of Trade                -2.3       1.5       -0.4        0.0         -0.3
Gross Domestic Income                 421.2      559.3      607.3      659.0        694.7              7.4            100.0
Exports (g + nfs)                       21.8       34.5      29.6       36.1         32.0              5.6              5.5
Imports (g + nfs)                      31.4       71.5       81.2       85.0         96.7             17.4             12.9
Resource Balanoc                        -9.6      -37.0     -51.6      -48.9        -64.7                               7.4
Investment                              79.5      118.3     145.8      156.0        165.7             11.1             23.7
Consumption                            353.6     476.5      513.5      512.0        593.9              7.7             83.8
Domestic Savings                        67.6      82.8       93.8      107.0        104.6              6.4             16.2
National Savings                        73.8      104.7     114.0      118.0         113.7             6.4             17.9
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT                                       Share of GDP (factor cost)
Agriculture                             30.0       27.4      27.9       28.5          25.5             4.4
Industry                               26.9       28.1       27.7       27.1         27.9             10.7
Servicas                               43.1       44.5       44.4       44.4         46.6              9.0
C.  PRICES (1976 = 100)
Export Prices (in dollars)              44.1      87.6       92.5      100.0        107.4             13.6
Impart Prices (to dollars)              51.1      83.3       93.7      100.0        108.3             11.3
Terms of Trade                          86.3     105.2       98.7      100.0         99.1
GDP Deflator                            34.4       73.4      85.4      100.0        125.0             20.2
Av. Exchange Rate ($1.00 = TL)          11.5       13.9       14.4       16.1         18.0
S.  PUBLIC FINANCE                                         As percent of GDP
Central Govt. Revenue                   19.9       17.1      20.5       21.4         23.6
Central Govt. Expenditures              22.5       19.4       22.9      24.1          28.9
Public Sector Deficit D                  na         4.5        6.1        8.1          9.5
Est.
E.  SELECTED INDICATORS                                   1970-77                           F.  LAOR FORCE                                     1965    1970    1975    1977
ICOR                                                    3.19                                Civlian Labor Force (mlillion)                12.9    13.8    15.6    16.4
Import Elasticity                                       2.38                                Unemployment & Underemployment (/. of CLF)   9.7    11.9    13.0    13.3
Average National Saving Rate                            0.18                                Civilian Employment (million)                  12.5    13.1    14.3    14.9
Marginal National Saving Rate                           0.16                                  Of whtch (M):
Investment/GDP                                          0.22                                       Agriculture                             74.3    67.1    60.8    57.7
Imports/GDP                                             0.11                                        Industry                               11.2    13.7    16.1    17.5
Resource Balance/GDP                                    0.05                                        Services                               14.5    19.2    23.1    24.8
1/ Totals may not add up because of rounding.
2/ Borrowing requirement of central government plus State Economic Enterprises and ether public authorities.
May 11, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 21
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In Current US$ Millions)
Actual                              Est.
1970       1972        1974       1975        1976        1977
A.  SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports and NFS                                 760       1100       2123        2139        2835       2557
2.  Imports and NFS                                1132       1790       4121        5191        5657        6496
3.  Resource Balance                              -372        -681      -1998       -3052       -2822        3939
4.  Net Factor Service Income                       193        643        1253        1152        691         549
a.  Interest (net)                             -47         -62       -102        -124       -217        -317
b.  Workers' Remittances                       273         740       1426        1312         983        982
c.  Profits                                    -33         -35        -71         -36         -75       -116
5.  Transfers (net)                                   8         30          27          20         30
6.  Balance on Current Account                    -171          -8        -718      -1880       -2101      -3391
7.  Private Direct Investment                        58         43          88        153          27          67
8.  Grant and Grantlike Flows 1/                    117         55          58          98        133          76
9.  Public M&LT (gross)                             337        304         269         322        362         310
10.  Amortization on Public M&LT                   -197        -127        -156       -147        -182        -214
11.  Public M&LT (net)                               140        177         113         175        180          96
12.  Short-term  Capital (net)                        18        332          60         840       1443        2363
13.  MIF                                              48        -98          -          197        149          -
14.  Capital n.i.e.                                  -24         65         -32          -          55          -
15.  Changes in Reserves(-= increase) 2/           -186        -566         431        417         lit         349
B. LOAN COMMITMENTS
Total Public M&LT                              487       453          533         589       1206
a.  IBRD                                        40        177         228         158        237
b.  Other Multilateral                         132         29          -            3          54
c.  Governments                                268        184         149         180        574
d.  Suppliers and Financial Institutions  47               27          28         219        316
e.  Others                                      -          36          68          29          26
C.  M&LT EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                                           _       PUBLIC EXTERNAL DEBT          Outstanding
_fl~    (Disbursed Only)             Dec. 31, 1977
1.  Total Debt Outstanding                        1840       2448         3097       3180        3538       4221                                Amount   Percent
(end of the period, DO&D)
2.  Interest                                         42        64           93         104        113         162   IBRD and IDA                   766       18.1
3.  Amortization                                    135       166          141         145        131         188   Other Multilateral            553        13.1
4.  Total Debt Service on M&LT Debt                 177       230          234        249         274        350   Governments                   2426        57.5
5.  Debt Service Ratio 3/                                                                                           Financial Institutions        320         7.6
a.  Debt Service/Exports NFS                    23.2       20.7        11.0        11.6        9.7        13.8 Suppliers' Credits             105        2.5
b.  Debt Service/Exports NFS and                                                                                Others                         51        1.2
Workers' Remittances                        17.1      12.4          6.6         7.2        7.2       10.0
TOTAL M&LT DEBT             4221       100.0
6.  Terms:
Interest DO&D/Total DO&D                         2.3        2.6         3.0         3.0        3.5         3.8
Debt Service/Total DO&D                          9.3        9.2         6.0         7.8        7.7         8.3
7-  IBRD DO&D/Total DO&D                              2.8        3.7         6.5         9.0       15.7       18.1
IBRD Debt Service/Total DO&D
Debt Service                                  3.2        5.0         9.1        12.4       14.8       20.5
1/ Mostly imports with waivers.
2/ As reported by country sources and is different from IFS (IMF) figures, except for 1977.
3/ Represent debt service obligations only on M&LT D0&D, excluding debt service on short-term obligations.
May 11, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 21
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND, CURRENT SITUATION AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
Introduction
1.        Ln most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good. As the result of a strong commitment
to rapid growth and modernisation, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Great strides have also been made towards meeting
the basic needs of the population in such areas as education, health care,
water supply, and rural roads. However, employment has never been at the
fore of the objectives of successive Governments. Overall, this impressive
economic progress has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970 and 1977) by severe
balance of payments crises, which have been the product partly of extraneous
factors and partly of Turkish development strategy itself, which has paid
insufficient attention to the structural weaknesses of the economy, and has
perhaps exacerbated some of them.
Structure and Structural Problems
2.        Since its inception, the Turkish Republic has laid great stress on
industrialization. The rise in the share of the industrial sector in total
output from about 15 percent in 1955 to about 28 percent in 1977 is largely
a reflection of the priority which it has been given in the allocation of
investible resources. Agricultural development has been relatively slow, but
it still contributes about a quarter of total output. However, inappropriate
subsidy and pricing policies also led to misallocation of land use (away from
grazing to crops, and among different crops), and to insufficient improvement
of dryland farming, which is the main type of agricultural activity in the
country. Production has also been constrained by inadequate implementation
of irrigation schemes and ineffective extension services. As a result, and
although the modern subsector of agriculture in irrigated regions and coastal
zones is reasonably efficient, agricultural labor productivity is on average
only about one fifth of that in industry.
3.        Turkish industry, moreover, is itself on average not especially
efficient, much less competitive by international standards. One reason for
this, is that a strong emphasis has been placed in recent years, on large-
scale capital-intensive investment projects. This has been viewed as the best
way to accomplish a rapid transfer of sophisticated technology; but it has
resulted in heavy recurrent import oriented industrialization, with very high
cost of production in certain subsectors, which have had to be heavily pro-
tected from foreign competition by quotas and tariffs.  It has also aggravated
a growing surplus of labor. Some parts of Turkish industry, by contrast, are
efficient, and many have the potential to become efficient. But the rather
unselective way in which protection has been applied and the buoyancy of the
domestic market, tended to limit the evolution of the sector beyond the infant
industry stage. More generally, it has inhibited the development of an indus-
trial structure well suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms of
location, natural resources and labor availability.
This annex is identical to the Annex included in the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President on the Livestock IV and Northern Forestry Projects,
Reports No. P2332 and P2333-TU dated May 12, 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 21
4.        Turkey has a mixed economy.  There is a large and flourishing pri-
vate sector, officially encouraged by a variety of investment incentives.
However, a leading role in implementing the heavy industry strategy has been
played by State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), which dominate the transport and
power sectors, and account for half the output of mining and manufacturing.
The SEEs are expected to pursue social as well as economic objectives, espe-
cially in regard to pricing, investment and employment decisions. This has
led to poor financial performance, which in turn has been a major contributor
to large public sector deficits in recent years. The efficiency of the SEEs
has been impaired also by shortages of managerial and technical staff as a
result of uncompetitive remuneration.
5.        It is tentatively envisaged that Turkey will join the European
Economic Community in the 1990s. To date, however, Turkish foreign trade
policy has emphasized self-reliance and import-substitution, first in consumer
goods and more recently in basic industries. One important consequence of
this, as well as of the pattern of industrialization outlined above, has been
that Turkey has failed to develop a large industrial export base. Instead, it
has relied mainly on its traditional agricultural exports (supplemented by
workers' remittances) to finance the imports of machinery and materials neces-
sary to accomplish its industrial transformation. This pattern of trade has
been a major cause of the difficulty which Turkey has experienced in reconcil-
ing rapid growth with a viable external payments position.
The Third Plan: Targets and Performance
6.        The somewhat checkered record of Turkish economic development is
exemplified by the events of the past five years (1973-77), which coincide
with the period of the Third Plan. The Plan envisaged growth of GDP at 8
percent (compared with under 7 percent achieved in the Second Plan period);
the share of investment in GDP was projected to rise from 19 to 23 percent;
the current account balance was expected to improve as a result of faster
growth of exports and increased workers' remittances; and hence there was to
be a reduction in the inflow of foreign capital, which was to be matched by a
rise in domestic savings, especially in the public sector.  Unemployment was
expected to increase somewhat; but inflation was to be held to moderate
levels.
7.        As regards growth and investment, the achievements of the Third
Plan period were fairly close to these targets. The average annual increase
in real GDP was over 7 percent; and the average share of fixed investment in
GDP was above 20 percent. But in other respects, Plan targets were not met.
The public sector, instead of saving more, went progressively further into
deficit; the rate of inflation rose to over 30 percent; and the current
account deficit, rather than declining, increased enormously, which pre-
cipitated an acute foreign exchange crisis in 1977.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 21
8.         In succeeding paragraphs, economic developments in Turkey since 1970
are analyzed in greater detail. An assessment is also attempted of the future
prospects of the economy, with particular regard to, (a) the measures recently
taken by the government, and (b) other measures needed to achieve and sustain
an improvement in performance.
Production, Investment and Employment
9.         A conspicuous feature of the recent growth in Turkey, unlike almost
every other country, is that it accelerated during the world recession. The
average annual real rate of GDP growth in the period 1970-73 was under 7 per-
cent; in the period 1973-77, it rose to nearly 8 percent.
10.       Part of the explanation for this is to be found on the demand side.
Reduced exports and the increased outflow of payments for oil both tended to
dampen demand for domestic output after 1973; but this was more than offset
in Turkey by the expansionary effect of a rising public sector deficit. As a
result, the growth of output was not, as in many countries, constrained by
lack of demand, but was determined by supply side considerations.
11.       Of these, the most important (in terms of explaining the increase
in the growth rate after 1973) was a marked improvement in the performance of
agriculture, as a result of favorable weather and good harvests in 1975 and
1976. Thus agricultural output, which had grown at an average annual rate of
2 percent in real terms during the period 1970-73, grew at an average annual
rate of 7 percent in the period 1973-77, despite zero growth in 1977. Indus-
trial output grew no faster after 1973. But it maintained the average real
growth rate of around 10 percent which it had achieved up to 1973, principally
as a result of the sustained high level of prior industrial investment.
12.       The pace of investment in Turkey, moreover, did not slacken during
the world recession. On the contrary, from 1975 onwards, as may be seen in
the public fixed investment figures in Table 1 below, the government intensi-
fied its investment drive (although the rate of realization of investment
plans declined). This increase in public investment was paralleled by
higher investment in the private sector in response to buoyant demand, easy
credit and generous tax incentives.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 21
Table 1: RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURE
(Percentages of GDP) /1
Est.
1970     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
GDP                           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports (g + nfs)               7.4       9.8      12.8      13.4     12.9      13.9
Total Resources             107.4    109.8    112.8    113.4    112.9    113.9
Gross Fixed Investment         17.6      18.1      18.5      21.0     22.1      22.6
Public                        9.3       8.9       8.8     10.4      11.4      12.1
Private                       8.3       9.2       9.6      10.6     10.7      10.6
Stock Changes                   1.2       0.8       2.7       3.0      1.5       1.2
Consumption                    83.5      83.7      85.4     84.5      83.8      85.5
Public                       12.0      14.1      13.5     12.7      12.8      14.6
Private                      71.5      69.5      71.9     71.8      70.9      70.8
(Gross Domestic Savings        16.5      16.3      14.6     15.5      16.2      14.5)
Exports (g + nfs)               5.1       7.2       6.2       4.9      5.5       4.6
(Resource Gap                   2.3       2.6       6.6      8.5       7.4       9.3)
/1   Totals may not add up because of rounding.
13.       In 1977 itself, the growth rate of real GDP declined, to about 5
percent. This was in part a reflection of the zero growth rate of agricul-
tural output. In addition, the growth of non-agricultural output was adversely
affected by a decline in the rate of capacity utilization as a result of,
(a) shortages of electricity aggravated by malfunctions in the already over-
stretched generation and transmission system, (b) a prolonged strike in the
metal-working industries, and (c) ad hoc import restrictions imposed by the
previous coalition government in response to the foreign exchange crisis,
which led to shortages of imported inputs.
14.       The favorable performance of Turkish production during the 1970's
was not matched by employment. While Turkish labor statistics are by no
means infallible, it would appear that urban and rural unemployment and
underemployment stood at a relatively high level (12 percent of the civilian
labor force) in 1970, and have since risen somewhat to over 13 percent in
1977. This increase is in part attributable to a drop in the annual rate
of emigration from Turkey from over 100,000 in 1973 to about 14,000 in 1977.
The main causes of the high level of unemployment in Turkey, however, antedate
the world recession. They are:



ANNEX I
Page 9 of 21
(i) A rapidly growing labor force, reflecting a rising participa-
tion rate and a rate of population growth (2.5 percent per
annum) which, while similar to that in other countries with
Turkey's level of per capita income, is high by comparison
with other Southern European countries.
(ii) The adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of
production both in agriculture and in industry, largely as
a result of government policy, expressed in public sector
investment plans and private sector investment incentives.
External Trade
15.       The most notable feature of the crisis of 1977 was the large
resource gap, which amounted to almost $4 billion. But this did not arise
overnight; Turkey's trading position (as seen in Table 1) had been worsening
for several years. From 1970 to 1973, the resource gap fluctuated around an
average of about 3 percent of GDP. But it rose to over 6 percent in 1974; it
averaged about 8 percent in 1975 and 1976; it was over 9 percent in 1977.
16.       Part of the reason for this deterioration was an increase in the
Turkish economy's propensity to import. The ratio of imports to GDP (as is
shown in Table 1) rose steadily from about 7 percent in 1970 to about 10 per-
cent in 1973. In 1974, it jumped to 13 percent; by 1977, it had reached 14
percent. The sharp rise in 1974 was caused mainly by the increase in the
price of oil, which alone has added between 2 and 3 percentage points to the
import propensity. The remainder of the rise in the import propensity is
attributable to: (a) the increasing relative importance of the industrial
sector, which relies quite heavily on imported inputs; (b) the investment
drive of recent years, which has increased the share of fixed investment
(much of which involves imports) in total expenditure; and (c) a general
liberalization of import restrictions.
17.       The increased import propensity accounts for roughly half the dete-
rioration of the resource balance since 1973. The remainder is attributable
to poor export performance. Up to 1973, the rising propensity to import was
more or less offset by an increase in the ratio of exports (of goods and
non-factor services) to GDP. Subsequently, however, the growth rate of GDP
increased somewhat, while the growth rate of exports declined sharply. In
dollar terms, Turkish exports grew during the period 1970-73 at an average
annual rate of 31 percent; during the period 1973-77, the average annual
growth rate was only 10 percent; in 1977, the absolute value of exports
actually fell.
18.       Year to year movements in Turkish exports are inherently erratic,
given the high share of agricultural products with their climatically depen-
dent supply. But the weak performance of Turkish exports over the whole
period 1973-77, which was manifested in industrial as well as agricultural
products, had other causes:



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 21
(a) One was the inefficiency of the agricultural price support policy,
whereby prices which are announced after the harvest bore little
relation to world prices, and did not provide rational economic
incentives to farmers. This long-standing problem was compounded
during this period with exceptionally ineffective administration
of agricultural export sales.
(b) Another important factor was the world recession. It not only
affected Turkey's industrial exports, but also depressed Turkish
agricultural exports which consist mainly not of staple foods, but
of luxury foods (nuts and fruits) and industrial raw materials
(cotton and tobacco).
(c) Industrial exports in particular were adversely affected by a more
rapid inflation of production costs in Turkey than in its trading
partners, which was not fully compensated for by exchange rate
adjustments. As a result, Turkish producers were obliged either to
raise their prices in export markets, thus reducing the demand for
their products, or to accept a cut in their profit margins, thus
reducing the attractions of production for export as compared with
domestic sales.
(d) This tendency for potential exports to be diverted to the domestic
market was probably exacerbated to a significant degree, especially
in 1976 and 1977, by aggregate excess demand in the domestic econ-
omy.
Current Account, Overall Balance, and External Borrowing
19.       The widening resource gap after 1973 was more than fully reflected
in the current account deficit (which rose from $0.7 billion in 1974 to about
$3.4 billion in 1977), as a result of a decline in workers' remittances.



ANNEX I
Page 11 of 21
Table 2: SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Us$ Millions)
Est.
1970     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
Exports (g + nfs)              760      1725      2123      2139      2835      2557
Imports (g + nfs)             1132      2348      4121      5191      5657      6496
Resource Balance            -372      -623    -1998    -3052    -2822    -3939
Workers' Remittances            273     1183      1426      1312       983       982
Other FSI and Transfers        -72       -75      -146      -140      -262      -434
Current Account Balance   -171         485      -718    -1880    -2101    -3391
Private Direct Investment        58       27        88       153        27        67
Gross Public M&LT              337       411       269       322       362       310
Amortization on Public M&LT -197        -107      -156      -147      -182      -214
Other (net) /1                  117      102        58       250       133       583
Overall Balance              144       918      -459    -1302    -1761    -2712
Financed by:
Reserve Changes
(- = increase)            -186     -728       431       417       114       349
Convertible Lira Accounts             -237        60       975       787       198
Other Short-term Funds        42        47       -32       -90       860      2165 /2
/1   Includes imports with waivers, program credits, acceptance credits (for
1977) and other M&LT funds.
/2   Includes mainly commercial arrears of $1,507 million and other short-
term liabilities.
20.       About 838,000 Turks (5 percent of the labor force) work abroad.
Between 1970 and 1974, as may be seen in Table 2 above, their remittances
increased in money terms by a factor of five. Subsequently, though, remit-
tances tended to fall significantly; in 1977, they were at only two-thirds of
their 1974 level. One important cause of this decline has been the restric-
tions imposed on immigration by Western European countries in the face of
growing unemployment. But the rate at which foreign earnings are remitted
has also fallen substantially, despite various efforts to increase the attrac-
tiveness of making remittances such as interest rate incentive and import
privileges. This fall is believed to be partly a reflection of hedging
against devaluation of the Turkish Lira, and partly of remittances being
diverted into the black market in response to overvaluation of the lira. It
may also reflect the increasing proportion of migrant workers who have been
allowed to bring their families to join them, and the declining proportion of
relatively recent migrants, a category who might be expected to have a rela-
tively high propensity to remit.



ANNEX I
Page 12 of 21
21.       The decline in workers' remittances was the more significant, be-
cause it occurred in a period of rapid world inflation and at a period when
the Turkish economy-was expanding rapidly. In 1973, workers remittances
financed 50 percent of the import bill; by 1977, this figure had dropped to
15 percent.
22.       The rapidly rising current account deficit was not matched by an
increased inflow of medium and long-term external capital. As a result of a
strong desire for economic independence, Turkey has deliberately kept foreign
private investment to a minimum, and official borrowing has been the main
source of medium and long-term external finance. But as may also be seen from
Table 2, the level of official borrowing in gross money terms exhibited little
or no trend during the 1970's, and averaged about $350 million per annum.
This, given the great increases in world prices and in the level of investment
and production in the Turkish economy, has meant a large decline in the rela-
tive contribution of official borrowing to Turkish foreign exchange needs. In
1970, official long-term borrowing financed 30 percent of imports; by 1977
this figure had dropped to a miniscule 5 percent.
23.       Official medium and long-term borrowing stagnated because its
growing need was not fully anticipated, which in turn is attributable to
the Third Plan's rather optimistic forecasts concerning exports and workers'
remittances. But it also reflects, especially in the latter part of the
period (when the need for more external finance was all too apparent), lack
of a dynamic approach towards mobilizing the needed long-term credits. Since
the early 1970's, Turkey has relied heavily only on three official sources of
external capital - Germany, the European Investment Bank, and the Bank. Until
recently, it took little initiative in seeking other official sources of
finance (including the Arab states); its comparative inexperience in the open
market and reluctance to utilize the services of experienced investment firms
as many developing countries did with success, also hampered its limited
efforts to tap commercial sources of medium and long-term funds. Since 1975,
the level of medium and long-term loan commitments, especially from Russia and
Eastern Europe, increased significantly. But most of these commitments have
been tied to specific projects, whose implementation has been slow, and thus
the rate of disbursement from official sources has not risen appreciably.
24.       The upshot of these changes in the relative importance of workers'
remittances and official borrowing, in conjunction with the widening resource
gap, has been a rapid deterioration of the overall balance of payments since
1974. Between 1970 and 1973, the overall balance had been in surplus, and the
reserves had risen very substantially, mainly as a result of the rapid growth
of workers' remittances. In 1974, the overall balance went into deficit, and
by 1977 the deficit had risen to $2.7 billion; and the cumulative deficit from
1974 to 1977 amounted to $6.6 billion. This deficit was financed in part from
the reserves accumulated prior to 1974. Between 1974 and 1977, the reserves
declined by a total of $1.3 billion. At the end of 1977, they stood at a
level of $770 million, equivalent to only one and a half month's imports. The
remainder of the cumulative payments deficit, amounting to some ~5.3 billion,
was financed by short-term borrowing of one sort and another.



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 21
25.       The single most important source of short-term credit was the con-
vertible lira accounts (CLAs), which provided a total of nearly $2 billion
during 1975 and 1976. These are deposits with Turkish banks by foreigners
and non-resident Turks, which until recently were guaranteed against exchange
rate risk by the Central Bank, and which offer an interest rate (latterly a
spectrum of interest rates according to maturity) set roughly at Eurodollar
rates. Various other types of short-term loan were also obtained. During
1977 foreign lenders, apprehensive of such extensive short-term financing of
long-term investment, and doubtful of Turkey's ability to meet its foreign
exchange commitments, became reluctant to extend further substantial loans.
The Central Bank was thus driven to delaying payment for imports on a large
scale which of course made it even harder to obtain credit by conventional
means.
Public Finance
26.       The enlargement of the public sector deficit, as noted earlier, was
instrumental in maintaining the rate of growth (and thus widening the resource
gap) in the period after 1973. In assessing the reasons for this, it is not
sufficient to consider the activities of the central government alone. It is
necessary instead, especially since the financial deficits and surpluses of
State Economic Enterprises are entangled with the consolidated budget of the
central government, to consider the public sector as a whole. The relevant
data are set out in Table 3 below. Since 1972, the excess of public sector
investment over public sector savings has increased in money terms by a factor
of twelve. In relative terms, as the Table shows, the public sector deficit
has risen steadily from about 2 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to about 9 percent
of GDP in 1976-77.
27.       This increase in the public sector deficit is attributable mainly
to a deterioration in the financial position of the SEEs, and in particular
of the operational (as distinct from the financial) SEEs. Successive govern-
ments, in an effort to slow inflation and avoid unpopularity, held SEE price
increases below the rate at which SEE costs were rising. They have also
increased agricultural support prices at such a rate that the Soil Products
Office (the operational SEE mainly concerned with implementing the price
support policy) has been unable to cover its costs. These policies have
caused operational SEEs to make heavy losses. In addition, the previous
governments greatly escalated the level of SEE investment. The net effect
has been a very rapid widening of the gap between SEE savings and investment.
As a result, and although the non-SEE-related elements of the consolidated
budget have contributed a modest surplus (partly as the result of a determined
effort to improve the efficiency of tax collection), the size of the public
sector deficit in relation to GDP has quadrupled in the past five years.
N



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 21
Table 3: PUBLIC FINANCE
(TL Billions: fiscal years)
Est.
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
CONSOLIDATED BUDGET
Tax Revenues                     39.9    51.4    65.0    95.0   126.1   172.5
Other Revenue                     7.9      6.9      5.1    11.5    15.1    18.4
Total Revenue                  47.8    58.3    70.1   106.5   141.2   190.9
Current Expenditure              24.2    28.7    40.0    59.3    78.6   108.0
Investment Expenditure            8.8    11.6    18.0    22.0    33.6    52.3
Transfer Expenditure /1          19.5    24.6    18.3    31.6    40.7    62.8
Other Expenditure /2              1.0    -0.6       3.2      5.7      5.9    10.7
Total Expenditure              53.5    64.3    79.5   118.6   158.8   233.8
Surplus/Deficit /3               -5.7    -6.0    -9.4   -12.1   -17.6   -42.9
STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
Gross Profit /4                   4.1      5.2      5.8     4.4    -14.5  -19.8
Fixed Investment                 10.7    12.1    15.3    26.2    34.9    40.5
TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR
Surplus/Deficit /3 /5            -6.2    -6.2   -18.5   -31.7   -53.3   -77.0
(Deficit as % GDP) 7             (2.7)   (2.1)   (4.5)   (6.1)   (8.1)   (9.5)
Financed by:
Foreign Borrowing (net) /5        2.6      3.0      3.4      4.3      7.9     1.3
Central Bank /5                   1.3      0.2      8.8    12.0    32.8    58.2
Other Domestic Borrowing
(net) /5                        2.3     3.0      6.3    15.4    12.6    17.5
/1   Current and capital transfers, including transfers to SEEs.
7T   Advance payments minus deferred payments.
/3   Borrowing requirement.
/4   Operating SEEs only.
7/   Figures for 1974 and earlier years are staff estimates based on incomplete
data.
/6   GDP for calendar year.
Money and Credit
28.        On average in recent years, Turkish governments financed only a small
part of the public sector deficit by the issue of bonds--one important reason
for this being a ceiling on interest rates, which has made it hard to attract
lenders. Most of the deficit, as may be seen in Table 3, has been financed by



ANNEX I
Page 15 of 21
borrowing from the Central Bank, which raised the money supply both directly
as well as indirectly by increasing the reserves of the banking system. The
decline since 1974 in foreign exchange reserves has had a damping effect on
the money supply. Nonetheless, as may be seen in Table 4 below, the large
public sector deficits have caused the money supply to grow at an average
annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977.
Table 4: MONEY AND CREDIT /1
(TL Billions: end-year)
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976    1977
LIABILITIES OF THE BANKING SYSTEM                                          September
Money, of which:                    53.6   71.2   90.5  119.1  152.5   190.0
Currency in circulation           16.0   20.7   26.2   32.9   42.5    63.2
Demand Deposits                   37.6   50.5   64.3   86.2  110.0   126.8
Quasi-Money                         18.3   20.8   25.0   30.4   34.2    37.1
Other Items (net)                   25.5   31.7   36.7   59.3  102.0   125.2
Total Liabilities                   97.4  123.7  152.2  208.8  288.7   352.3
ASSETS OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
Foreign Assets (net)                21.4   31.5   24.8   13.1   15.0         4.2
Domestic Assets, of which:          76.0   92.2  127.4  195.7  273.6   348.1
Credit to Public Sector           20.3   20.0   28.7   56.7   91.1   139.8
Credit to Private Sector          55.7   72.2   98.7  139.0  182.5   208.3
Total Assets                        97.4  123.7  152.2  208.8  288.6   352.3
CENTRAL BANK                                                                December
Credit to Public Sector             19.9   20.1   28.9   55.7   84.3   149.1
/1   Totals may not add up because of rounding.
The rate of credit expansion by the banking system to the private sector has
also been high, but is estimated to have declined from 41 percent in 1975 and
31 percent in 1976 to 20 percent in 1977, which may reflect the decline in the
real rate of growth of output in 1977.
Inflation
29.       Of the several imperfect Turkish price indices, the best is probably
the general index of wholesale prices. This reveals that Turkey, like other
countries, experienced a rising rate of inflation up to 1974, when the index
rose by 30 percent. In 1975, the rate of inflation fell to 10 percent; however
subsequently (and in this respect the experience of Turkey has differed from
that of other countries), it rose steeply to 25 percent in 1976, 35 percent
in 1977 and accelerated in early 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 16 of 21
30.       Excess aggregate demand has been the main cause of the acceleration
of inflation in the last two years. For the rise in the public sector deficit,
in conjunction with the increase in private investment which it stimulated (in
part by expanding the availability of credit), caused an increase in aggregate
demand well beyond the amount needed to offset the damping effect of reduced
exports and an increased import propensity. The consequent upward pressure on
the price level was aggravated in 1977 by import restrictions, which reduced
the output of goods requiring imported inputs, and diverted demand to domesti-
cally produced goods that were already in short supply.
31.       Taking a somewhat longer view of inflation in Turkey, one should not
overlook three important sources of cost-push. One is increases in the legally
prescribed minimum wage. A second is the union movement, which now covers more
than half of all non-agricultural workers and which has aggressively and suc-
cessfully fought for large money wage increases in recent years. The third
is the agricultural price support policy, by which Turkish governments in an
explicit effort to maintain the relative level of farm incomes, have in recent
years decreed very large increases in the prices of agricultural products
(although an effort to check the speed of these increases was made in 1977).
32.       On the other hand, however, inflation in Turkey after 1974 cannot
be attributed to the cost-push influence of import price rises. For the world
rate of inflation has been well below the Turkish rate, and (as mentioned
earlier) the Turkish exchange rate has not fallen by enough to close the gap;
as a result, import prices have risen more slowly than domestic prices and
have thus tended to damp down the rate of inflation in Turkey.
Summary of the Causes of the Present Crisis
33.       One important cause of the crisis of 1977 was the fourfold rise
in the price of oil in 1974, which raised the Turkish propensity to import.
Another external cause was the world recession, which directly reduced the
growth rate of Turkish exports and indirectly reduced the flow of workers'
remittances. But Turkey's trading position was already structurally weak;
and the external pressures on it were compounded by inadequate management
of agricultural export sales and an inappropriate exchange rate policy. In
addition, the crisis was aggravated by inability to develop and tap fresh
sources of medium and long-term external finance.
34.       A major cause of the crisis, however, was that despite the world
recession, the growth rate of the Turkish economy did not fall, and indeed
rose, after 1974. As a result, the increased propensity to import was
reflected in a more than commensurate increase in the absolute level of
imports. In this respect, Turkey behaved in a different fashion from most
other countries, whose governments, faced with the same problems of an
increased import propensity and sluggish exports, caused (or allowed) their
growth rates to fall in order to keep down the level of imports, thus alle-
viating the deterioration of their trade balances. The reasons why the
Turkish economy continued to grow, while others did not, were partly fortui-
tous, in the form of good harvests. But they also reflect the basic Turkish



ANNEX I
Page 17 of 21
commitment to rapid growth. This was most strikingly visible in the increased
scale of public fixed investment from 1975 onwards, which stemmed largely from
a desire to accelerate the pace of economic development. This intensification
of the public investment effort, because of increased gestation lags and a
decline in the rate of capacity utilization, had little direct effect on the
growth of output. But because it was not matched by an increase in public
savings, it caused a great expansion of aggregate demand.
35.       These adverse but interrelated causes have combined to produce a
very difficult economic situation. The current account deficit in 1977 was
$3.4 billion, and the overall balance of payments deficit was also sizeable.
There is a desperate scarcity of foreign exchange; the reserves in December
1977 were down to $770 million. Prices are rising at more than 30 percent per
annum, while the rate of capacity utilization and the level of employment are
falling.
Short-Term Policy Measures
36.       To alleviate the present foreign exchange shortage without extreme
disruption of the economy, external financial assistance will clearly be
vital. Measures to boost exports and restrict imports will be necessary to
accomplish this; but they will not be sufficient. It will also be necessary
to restrain consumption and/or investment; this will require a reduction of
the public sector deficit, which should also serve to moderate the pace of
inflation.
37.       Certain preliminary steps in the direction of a stabilization policy
were taken by the last coalition government of Mr. Demirel in the course of 1977.
Applications for licenses for non-essential imports were refused and other
applications were delayed. Import deposits were raised by up to 20 percentage
points, depending on the type of import. The lira was devalued by 10 percent
in September, and by a further 5 percent in December. Large increases were
made in September in monopoly prices and in a number of SEE tariffs and
prices, which, it is estimated, will yield additional revenues of about TL 26
billion annually (equivalent to 3 percent of 1977 GDP). In addition, negotia-
tions were entered into with the IMF, but no agreement had been reached before
this government resigned on December 31.
38.       The new government, formed by Mr. Ecevit in mid-January, proceeded
to formulate its own economic stabilization package prior to resuming negotia-
tions with the IMF on the Standby Agreement, which was subsequently negotiated
and finalized in March with relatively minor changes. As a part of the pack-
age announced after the Parliamentary approval of the annual Program, the lira
was devalued in March by an additional 30 percent, to a rate of TL 25 per US
dollar (although the effect of this adjustment on exports will be offset to
some degree by a substantial lowering of tax rebates on most exported commodi-
ties). The stamp duty on imports has been increased, which is expected to
discourage imports and to increase public revenues by about TL 20 billion per
annum. Most non-agricultural interest rates have been raised by about 2 per-
centage points; import licenses and travel allowances have been further
restricted, as have imports with waiver and imports financed by acceptance



ANNEX I
Page 18 of 21
credits; the exchange rate guarantee on future (though not existing) CLAs has
been abandoned; and the minimum term of future CLAs has been raised to one
year. Further substantial tax and SEE price increases are expected.
39.       As regards investment and growth, the new government's stated short-
term intention is to cut back on new investment projects, except in the energy
sector, and to concentrate on completion of existing projects, while endeavor-
ing to increase output mainly by fuller use of existing capacity. The Annual
Program for 1978 envisages that real GDP and real investment will both grow by
about 6 percent, while real aggregate consumption will gross by about 2 per-
cent. The consolidated budget for FY1978, approved at the end of February,
envisages government expenditure of TL 265 billion, which is expected to be
about the same in real terms as in FY1977, though about 20 percent higher in
money terms. The Annual Program assumes that imports of goods will be reduced
from $5.8 billion in 1977 to $5.0 billion in 1978; exports of goods are
expected to rise from $1.8 billion to $2.6 billion, partly through sales of
existing stocks of cotton and wheat. It is also assumed that workers' remit-
tances will rise from $1.0 billion to $1.3 billion, and that the 1978 current
account deficit will be reduced to $1.45 billion.
40.       Despite the determination of the new government to tackle the eco-
nomic crisis, it would appear that some of the targets of the 1978 Annual
Program may not be attainable. In particular, it is not clear that the
planned volumes of output, investment and consumption can be achieved, given
the programmed cut of about 20 percent in the volume of imports. And even
this reduced level of imports will be possible only on relatively optimistic
assumptions about the availability of external finance, especially in view of
the very large stock of outstanding short-term external financial liabilities.
Longer-Term Problems and Prospects
41.       Even after the introduction of major policy changes concerning
balance of payments and domestic demand control, the management of the external
payments position in 1978 is likely to prove difficult. The key objectives
should be to reduce the backlog of arrears, to roll over many of the other
short-term obligations as they fall due, and to begin gradually to convert the
bulk of the short-term debt into medium and long-term debt. To accomplish
this restructuring, it will be essential, from 1978 onwards, for Turkey to
pursue actively all available external sources of medium and long-term funds,
and (by improving project implementation) to accelerate the pace at which loan
commitments are translated into disbursements.
42.       The Ecevit government is making a determined effort to raise new
medium and long-term foreign capital. However, if growth is to be achieved
at around the past trend rate, and future external payments crises are to be
avoided, it will be necessary to bring about certain structural changes in
the economy and avoid repetition of certain past patterns of policy. Con-
siderations of this sort, some of which are outlined below, might have some
weight in the forthcoming Fourth Plan, which is now scheduled to be finalized
by end 1978.



ANNEX I
Page 19 of 21
Exports and Imports
43.       It is of the utmost importance to improve the performance of Turkish
exports, both agricultural and, especially, industrial. A necessary condition
for sustained rapid growth of industrial exports is a competitive exchange
rate, which will require, in addition to the recent devaluation of the lira,
further regular adjustments sufficient to compensate for any significant
excess of the Turkish inflation rate over the rate of inflation in Turkey's
principal trading partners. It might also be necessary to initially tilt
the balance of industrial investment to give somewhat less weight to basic
industries and a greater weight to more export-oriented industries such as
textiles, clothing, food processing, leather products, wood products, and
light engineering. Export-oriented investments by the private sector should
be encouraged by a competitive exchange rate, but they should be further
encouraged through the allocation of import licenses and credit, and by
governmental support of export insurance, promotion and technical assistance
schemes. Industrial exporting, moreover, need not be confined to the private
sector; the government should divert a proportion of public investment into
this type of activity.
44.       Steps will be needed to increase agricultural exports, mainly
through further increases in agricultural productivity. This would require
completion of existing irrigation projects, an increase in the resources
devoted to farmer support services, and better coordination among the public
agencies concerned with agriculture. Agricultural exports, in particular,
could benefit from revision of the price support policy in such a way as to
provide stronger incentives to increase the production of exportable commodi-
ties, and reform of agricultural export sales procedures. On a different
front, greater effort is necessary to increase foreign exchange earnings
through development of the tourist industry which, despite a tremendous
potential, has been given practically no attention to date.
45.       To reconcile reasonably rapid growth with a viable external payments
position through improved export performance will be easier, if the world econ-
omy recovers quickly from its recession and the present spread of protectionism
is checked. This reconciliation can partly be assisted by measures to keep
down the economy's propensity to import; but a large reduction cannot be
expected, given that Turkish imports consist overwhelmingly of oil, materials,
and capital goods. A greater recognition of the scarcity of foreign exchange
in the selection of investment projects should have a beneficial effect, as
should maintenance of a competitive exchange rate, continued restrictions on
inessential imports, and increased attention to more efficient methods of
import substitution.
Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
46.       In 1978 and 1979, the measures necessary to recover from the present
crisis will probably cause the annual growth rate of real GDP to fall, on
average, to around 3 or 4 percent; but for the remainder of the Fourth Plan
period, a higher growth should be possible. Exports and investment will need
to grow faster than GDP, while imports must be restrained; thus, consumption



ANNEX I
Page 20 of 21
will have to grow more slowly than GDP, during 1979-83. This will entail a
significant increase in the domestic savings ratio.
47.       It is unlikely that much of this increase can be brought about by a
rise in private savings, although the allocation and use of private savings
could be improved by increased interest rates and other measures to channel
private savings into the financial system. The remainder of the increase in
the aggregate domestic savings ratio will need to be accomplished by a rise in
the relative level of public savings. Since the social development strategy
of the Turkish government will probably preclude more than a small reduction
in the growth rate of public consumption, increase in public savings will
require an increase in the growth rate of public sector revenues through:
increasing and maintaining the operating profitability of the SEEs; widening
of the coverage of the agricultural income tax; a tightening of business tax
exemptions; the introduction of a value added tax; and an increase in municipal
rates and user charges. Such measures to keep down the public sector deficit
will not only restrain consumption to a level consistent with external equi-
librium; they will also restrain aggregate demand to a level consistent with a
moderate rate of inflation, although to achieve this it will be necessary to
contain the various domestic cost-push pressures noted earlier, possibly by
some form of social contract or incomes policy.
Unemployment and Income Distribution
48.       Apart from the external payments position, another major problem of
Turkish economic development in the medium and long term, is the rising level
of unemployment and underemployment. In the long run, some reduction in
unemployment can be expected from a decline in the population growth rate.
But in the next two decades, since emigration on the scale of the early 1970s
is unlikely to be resumed, the level of unemployment will depend crucially on
the rate at which new jobs are created in Turkey, which makes it desirable to
maintain a high aggregate growth rate. It should also be possible to increase
the level of employment through somewhat greater emphasis on less capital-
intensive commodities and techniques of production. In this regard, the
accelerated development of export-oriented industries, which tend to be com-
paratively labor-intensive, might be beneficial. In addition, it would be
advantageous more generally to modify investment and subsidy policies in
industry and agriculture in such a way as to reduce their bias towards capital-
intensive technology.
49.       While basic needs are largely met, the distribution of income in
Turkey, by comparison with other developing countries, appears rather unequal
(although it seems to have improved somewhat since the late 1960s). One of
the principal causes of this inequality is the large gap, between agricultural
and non-agricultural incomes, which parallels the gap between labor produc-
tivity in the respective sectors. Greater emphasis on agricultural development
should therefore improve income distribution. Political constraints will make
it difficult to bring about greater equality of agricultural land ownership.
But the difference in income between rich and poor farmers, which is the other
principal cause of inequality in Turkey, could be reduced by changes in subsidy
and price support policies, and by increased attention to the development of



ANNEX I
Page 21 of 21
the relatively backward dry-farming sub-sector. Likewise, the need to increase
public sector revenues in the next few years should not be incompatible with a
restructuring of the tax system in such a way as to make it more progressive,
while the government's policy of providing for basic needs through public
expenditure should continue to reduce the inequality of living standards
relative to the inequality of incomes.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
50.       The extensive short-term borrowing of the past three years has
greatly increased Turkey's external debt, has given it an unattractive maturity
structure, and has caused a sharp rise in debt service payments. At the end
of 1977, the country's total external indebtedness amounted to approximately
$10.0 billion, of which about $5.8 billion was short-term. The remaining $4.2
billion was mainly public and publicly guaranteed medium and long term debt.
Of this, about one third was held by international organizations, mainly the
Bank ($0.8 billion, plus $0.6 billion committed but undisbursed) and the
European Investment Bank; and about one half by foreign governments and gov-
ernment agencies, notably those of the United States, West Germany, Canada
and Russia. In 1977, debt service payments (including interest on short-term
debt) amounted to 15.0 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services
plus workers' remittances.
51.       The first objective of a prudent debt management policy should be
an adequate restructuring of the short term liabilities. A determined medium
and long-term borrowing effort during the next few years should restore a
satisfactory balance between short and longer-term debt. But despite the
Government's current restructuring efforts, a substantial increase in debt
service payments is inevitable. The debt service ratio can be expected to
rise to about 23 percent in 1978 and peak at anywhere between 30 to 40 percent
in the early eighties, depending on the rerolling and restructuring terms
ultimately agreed to by commercial banks and other bilateral creditors and
export financing agencies. In these circumstances and until the outcome of
the restructuring negotiations as well as the strategy of the Government in
its Fourth (1978-82) Development Plan becomes available, it does not appear
meaningful to venture firm projections on growth, balance of payments or debt
service. However, if as the new Government intends, Turkey pursues sound
medium-term and debt management policies and shows the same seriousness as
it has shown in its short-term policies since assuming office, and as the
financial consequences of the recent crisis are gradually remedied, the debt
service ratio should decline after reaching a peak in the early eighties.
Although a tight balance of payments situation is likely to remain a medium-
term feature of the economy, Turkey would continue to have a substantial
borrowing capacity for medium- and long-term funds provided the present
short-term debt is restructured on adequate terms and future short-term
borrowing is strictly contained. However the situation will need to be
carefully watched and evaluated as soon as a more concrete basis for doing
so becomes available.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1978)
Loan and
Credit                                                         (Less Cancellations US$M)
Number                                                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and nine credits fully disbursed                  255.1    96.8
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Education                  13.5              4.5
762-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable    10.0                  3.4
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey    Fruit and Vegetable                15.0      0.2
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Irrigation Rehab.                  18.0      1.6
817-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Steel Mill Expansion   76.0                  5.9
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Water Supply  37.0                 13.7
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Urban Dev.                 2.3      0.7
845-TUa/ 1972   IGSAS                   Fertilizer Industry    42.0                1.0
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey    Livestock II                       16.0      5.6
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas           44.0              40.1
360-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas                    30.0      0.5
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey    Istanbul Power Dist.   14.0                  4.5
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway Railway Project           46.7              13.0
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey    Antalya Forestry          40.0               8.2
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power         148.0              96.2
1024-TU   1974   DYB                     Industry                40.0               8.5
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                    Industry                 65.0             11.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey    Rural Development          75.0             62.9
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit      54.2              45.0
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                70.0             40.6
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Livestock III              21.5             21.1
1194-TU   1976   TEK                     Power Transmission II  56.0               56.0
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey    Tourism                    26.0             25.7
1379-TU   1977   DYB                     Industry                 70.0             70.0
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                    Industry                 74.0             68.3
Total                                    1278.0  178.1   619.0
of which has been repaid                126.3    3.8
Total now outstanding                    1151.7  174.3
Amount sold                   3.6
of which has been repaid  3.6           -0-      -0-
Total now held by Bank and IDAk/         1151.7  174.3
Total undisbursed                         610.4    8.6   619.0
a/ Includes $18.0 million approved on April 15, 1976
/  Prior to exchange adjustments



ANN'EX TI
Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BA4N\K GROUP OPERATIONS IN TRE'KY
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESMTMNTS
(As of April 30, 1978)
Fiscal                                           Amount in US$ Mtillion
Year      Obligor        Type of Business       Loan      Equity    Total
1964      TSKB          DFC                       -       0.92      0.92
1966      SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn              0.90      0.47      1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                      -       0.34      0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                      -       0.41      0.41
1969      SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn              1.50      0.43      1.93
1970      Viking I       Pulp and Paper         2.50      0.62      3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                 10.00      1.58    11.58
1971      NASAS         Aluminum                7.00      -1.37     8.37
1971      SIFAS III     Nylon Yarn              0.75         -      0.75
1971      Viking II      Pulp and Paper           -       0.05      0.05
1972      SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                -       0.52      0.52
1972      TSKB IV       DFC                       -       0.43      0.43
1973      TSKB V         DFC                   10.00         -     10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tourisn                0.33      0.27      0.60
1974      Borusan        Steel Pipes            3.60      0.44      4.04
1974      AKSA          Textiles               10.00        -      10.00
1975      Kartaltepe    Textiles                1.30         -      1.30
1975      Sasa          Nylon Yarn             15.00         -     15.00
1975      Aslan          Cem~ent               10.60        -      10.60
1975      DOKTAS         Steel                  7.50      1.37      8.87
1975      TSKB           DFC                   25.00      1.22    26.22
1976      NASAS          Aluminum               1.58         -      1.58
1976      TSKB           DFC                   25.00         -     25.00
1976      Asil Celik    Steel                  12.00      2.18    14.18
1977      BORUSAN        Steel Pipes              -       0.16      0.16
Total Gross Commitments            144.56      12.78   157.34
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
exchange adjustments, repayments  78.18       3.00    81 18
and sales
Total Commitments now held by IFC  66.38         9. 78   76.16
Total Undisbursed                     1.59       Z.34     3.93



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
The project is about two years behind schedule, due mainly to ini-
tial difficulties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff
and authority commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation
is now proceeding well, with equipment procurement progressing satisfactorily.
Training of teachers for technician schools, adult training centers and
practical trade schools has made considerable progress. The Management
Training Institute has been established on an interim basis pending passage
of legislation formally establishing it, and its instructors are undergoing
training. Sixty-seven local advisory committees for vocational and technical
education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is nearing completion, with three of its four com-
ponents, including refrigerated trailer and towing units, marketing facili-
ties and a roll-on roll-off ferryship, fully implemented. A fourth component,
comprising credit and technical assistance for citrus development, underwent
initial start-up delays, but is now well established and being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: December
31, 1978.
Construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
at Silifke and Tokat is nearly complete, but on-farm works are still behind
schedule at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season.
Arrangements to ensure use of remaining loan funds before the revised closing
date are being finalized by the implementing agencies, and project works not
completed by the closing date would be carried out using Government funds.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is expected to be completed in the second half of 1978,
three years behind the original schedule, due to delays in beginning procure-
ment stemming largely from inefficient management. An additional $4.0 million
in foreign exchange is required for project completion, and the Government is
arranging this.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs are expected to be completed by mid-1978. Substantial
improvements to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full
utilization to be made of the new water sources. Although a tariff increase
was implemented in March 1978, this was insufficient to enable ISI to generate
sufficient funds for future ongoing investment in the distribution system, and
the Government has been requested to explore ways to resolve the lack of ade-
quate local and foreign currency.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Plans for Phase II are currently
underway.
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
The project has been physically completed at a cost of $146 million,
some $16 million above the original estimate, with the overrun being met by
the Government, the State Investment Bank, and shareholders. Production
commenced in April 1977, but soon thereafter severe technical problems were
encountered, resulting in lengthy shutdowns which have prevented steady
commercial operation at satisfactory levels being achieved up to now despite
repeated efforts. Final performance testing of the plant is, however,
expected to be possible to start in mid-1978.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The fattening subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all
funds have been committed. The Village Livestock Development (VSD) sub-
project, after a slow start resulting from initial difficulties in recruit-
ment of technicians and technical specialists, which have been overcome
through application of suitable incentives, and after gaining the confidence
of farmers in the program, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the
funds committed. The project is expected to be completed in late summer 1978.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but as a result of revised tunnelling methods, the
diversion is now expected to be completed before the 1978-79 flood season,
which is about one year behind the contract date and two years behind the
appraisal estimate. After some initial delays, progress in construction of
the irrigation works is satisfactory and by the end of 1977 the system was
ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha or about 65 percent of the appraisal
estimate for 1977. However, on-farm works are behind the appraisal schedule,
with 55 percent and 29 percent of 1977 targets completed respectively for land
levelling and surface drainage. Construction of feeder roads has progressed
faster than initially estimated, with 156 percent of the 1977 target completed
or 59 percent of project total. A permanent director and one of the two
extension consultants have been appointed. Full-time subject matter special-
ists have been hired and recruitment of field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973.  Effective Date:  September 28, 1973.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased by nearly 300 percent over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs by
26 percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the pro-
posed reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services have
been completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's tariffs
were raised following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in September
1977 and additional steps are planned by the Government to help cover the
increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
After initial delays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 75 percent of the loan has been



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the remaining loan funds. Despite two tariff increases
since the loan was made, the Railways have continued to fall short of meeting
the financial targets in the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in
mid-1975. However, it is hoped that the further increases in passenger fares
averaging about 70 percent which became effective in March of this year, and
substantial increases in freight tariffs anticipated in the near future, will
improve the Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program
is making satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational effi-
ciency, such as appropriate manpower planning have not been given sufficient
attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the site of the pulp and paper
mill, the loan was declared effective. Construction has begun at the new site,
and the project is expected to be completed by the beginning of 1981, 1-1/2
years behind the revised schedule. The cost overruns are being met by the
Government and the State Investment Bank. Some cases of sub-standard civil
works construction have occurred, but a corrective program and strengthened
supervision by SEKA have produced some improvement. The Government has been
unable to authorize the foreign exchange transfers needed to permit continued
procurement for the industrial part of the project, but now expects to make
certain critically needed transfers shortly.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974.  Effective Date:  June 1, 1976.  Closing Date:  July 30, 1982.
Engineering and contracting are proceeding, but project implementa-
tion has been delayed as a result of critical problems, including insufficient
staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination among various agencies
and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. After the Bank and the
co-lenders reviewed the situation in January and April 1977 with the Turkish
authorities, the remedial measures initiated by Turkey have had quite encour-
aging results in improving project coordination and in the physical aspects of
project implementation.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory, although disbursements are somewhat behind original appraisal esti-
mates, as a result of the current difficulties in Turkey's investment climate.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The project extension
service and credit operations are operating successfully and consultants are
being engaged. Corum dam is nearing completion and the associated irrigation
works are expected to be completed during the summer of 1978. Kumbaba pumping
station and the associated irrigation networks are nearly completed. Con-
struction of the remaining village centers will be delayed until 1979 while a
plan for the use and maintenance of the centers already built is being drawn
up. Other civil works are well underway.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is somewhat behind schedule, but nearly half the
loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because of foreign
exchange shortages, but this situation is expected to improve, and overall
project implementation and the rate of disbursement should also improve in the
coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
Project implementation is generally satisfactory. Under the agro-
industries component, the responsible Project Unit is actively preparing
sub-projects for marketing and processing facilities. The supervised credit
component, an on-going program of the Agriculture Bank (TCZB), which is being
expanded with Bank assistance, is also proceeding well. The ferryship com-
ponent has been implemented, and the two roll-on and roll-off ships purchased
under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable Export project, are now operat-
ing a regularly scheduled service between ports in Turkey and two ports in
Italy. However, TCZB is behind schedule in preparing a program of improvement
of its operations, financial planning and resources, and in hiring consultants
to assist in evaluating its programs. At the Borrower's request, a cattle-
fattening component of the Project, and $7.7 million of the original loan
amount of $63 million, allocated for this purpose, were cancelled on May 5,
1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04 million for training
was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of UNDP funds for this
purpose.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule but
quality of work is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and are in the process of preparation,
including a higher proportion than expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work.
Staffing of the Project Unit is expected to be accelerated now that the
Director has been appointed.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
Loan commitments and disbursements have not started yet, mainly due
to changes in Government which led to delays in formulating the 1978 Annual
Program. However, DYB has recently discussed with the Bank a pipeline suffi-
cient to fully commit the loan by the terminal date of March 31, 1979 and
submitted the first sub-project. DYB has been experiencing severe staff
constraints, which it has in part overcome by new recruitment on improved
contract terms.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and as of April 30, 1978 about $29 million
had been committed. In 1977, TSKB essentially reached an agreed target by
allocating 38 percent of its resources to projects in less developed regions,
and exceeded another in its assistance to small and medium-scale labor-
intensive enterprises. TSKB has so far been unable to raise resources in
international capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic diffi-
culties, but the interest of several financing sources is anticipated once
conditions permit renewed efforts.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Turkey to prepare
project:                                Designed in broader terms in 1971,
along with Stage I. Updating and
detaching done by the end-1976
(b)  Agency which prepared project:           Erdemir, and US Steel Engineers
and consultants
(c) Date project first presented to
Bank:                                   December 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                                 October 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   May 1978
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:           October 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Special events of suspension and default:
(i) Any action taken resulting in a change in Erdemir's private
status (para. 37); and
(ii) Failure to secure $22 million in other loans by December 31,
1979 (para. 51).
(b) Special conditions of effectiveness:
(i) Signature of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and Erdemir providing for relending the Bank loan (para. 53); and
(ii) Signature of agreements for $28 million in suppliers' credits
(para. 51).
(c) Other conditions:
(i) The Government will coordinate future investments in flat products
taking into account domestic market conditions (para. 34);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) The Government will grant Erdemir the right to import necessary
amounts of iron ore and coal (para 57);
(iii) The Government will finance local cost, interest during con-
struction, working capital and any eventual cost overruns,
by equity or quasi-equity, if Erdemir's internally generated
funds are insufficient and certain financial ratios are not
met (para 52);
(iv) Erdemir will maintain employment policies to increase the
Company's labor productivity (para 58);
(v) Erdemir will maintain a 60:40 debt/equity ratio and a 1.3
current ratio (para 62);
(vi) Erdemir will prepare and review annually with the Bank 5-
year financial projections (para 52);
(vii) Erdemir will set steel prices according to criteria agreed
upon and consult with the Bank on steel price changes (para
35); and
(viii)  Erdemir will restrict dividend payments to private non-
founders until project completion, and thereafter if dividend
payments would result in a debt/equity ratio higher than
60:40 and current ratio less than 1.3 (para 62).






LOCATION OF STEEL MILLS IRON ORE DEPOSITS AND COAL MINES
8. u    ,  A  A    A                                                                                                                                                              .,' <  
. u 5 br / ~~a              c    #    YF,KR _>5a/IoMRU 
(.>             AEM ~AAR                                                                                     SAMS')
.---,~ ~ ~                             2 MI-_                                  , .            t         j        -    ,               EbCRI._  
,   '   , 5 Ea E t r e t A T t E   ,    I Z   $sA U   \ \  0/ +5    4 > r,                         ' ,E                                                                              J>:A~ I  ~  A  S 
S   $        )         20F gt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr 8                                  ERZ~~~~~~~_"~,IINCAII
NKARA~~~~~~~~~~~~I                               ARARAS
GREE                  ,       - <CMA >4t                                                                                                                               A.  ' ~         mS)  NqqAU    
At ArEA  AEEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA1
K e X A N   A T f<30   g/'  '   1 j  <   X-b!AHYAKE  A C AR
TAC,_R__                                                                                                                SN
A     ,       r< ,   .........   ' ,   .A .                                                                                     A T T R AI8  C AAI ....  1                                      I;3
T$OY.~~ $~      '04                                                                                                         T      CAAREAS BEIN    N ETIATED
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TA
ARt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~tf
Ay SUA    ATw                                                                                         j -;e                        ONOR  EOIT
AR   AR           ,,,  R.      \        '   AO A'AI K iR
T,AT'AAR~~~~~~.R  --AT        -     ,,   AILO
M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~C   t     r   ,    e     o                 _,,S                            e                     _           RTUCKROADS Y
AAAZ  rQQ9allD            N IArwso w Jrsmffl w Eef w o7 EA IcA$A  TnQ '$"E O  L T _                A                TOWNS N  P'1 R OP                                                             w EN
,   _   _   _    _   _  _  _   _   ,,  _   _   _ ,  _    .   _  _  _   .  .                                                                                    .             _,  _N  _,  _N     ,,E ,  M I L L
-'A       A,'~~~~~~~~~   CRAS        AAA                               A                     "~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREAST BEIN  'VTGAE
ZMIR  '--  A'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OL IE
e    a,                          0           O    a    n                                                                              IRAA>  AKUKROADS
-<  A  t~~~~~~                   MA   A'  TEAR                 A                                           ..    -'   /~~~~~~~~~CI IE
A,  A         ISTLS[TCR                        *TURKEY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.<  A'   / /  -.  *"       A A A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
S,I,R   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~A/~                                ~    ~ ~ ON
A                  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~NENALNLBUDRF



