CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1606 TU
Loan Agreement
(Erdemir Stage II Steel Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 30, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1606 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Eregli Demir Ve
Celik Fabrikalari Turk Lnonim Sirketi (hereinafter called the
Company) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Company
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Company has been established as a Joint Stock
Company (i) pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 7462, as amended,
(ii) pursuant to the Articles of Association, dated April 14,
1960, as amended, and (iii) pursuant to the Founders' Agreement,
as hereinafter defined;
(D) the Company has represented to the Bank that it intends
to contract suppliers credits in an aggregate principal amount
currently estimated to be equivalent to about $28,000,000 to
assist in the financing of the Project (hereinafter called the
Suppliers Credits);
(E) the Borrower or the Company intends, as the case may
be, to obtain loans (hereinafter called the Other Loans) in an
aggregate amount equivalent to about $22,000,000 to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Company;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Company of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all supplements thereto;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Company pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated
April 28, 1972, between the Borrower and the Bank as such agree-
ment may be amended from time to time; such term includes the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank dated January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such
agreement, all agreements supplemental to the Prior Loan Agreement
and all schedules to the Prior Loan Agreement;
(d) "Completion Date" means the date on which over a
selected period of ninety consecutive days (i) the total plant
production facilities of the Company as modified by the Project
have been able to produce a total of at least 450,000 metric tons
of raw steel, 22,000 metric tons of tin plate, 139,000 metric
tons of cold rolled products, 136,000 metric tons of hot rolled
products (including skelp but excluding plate) and 48,000 tons of


﻿- 3 -
plate, and (ii) the Company has maintained the ratio specified in
Section 4.07 of the Project Agreement, all as certified by the
Company's engineering consultants and auditors employed pursuant
to Sections 2.02 and 4.02, respectively of the Project Agreement;
(e) "Founders" means any of the parties to the Founders
Agreement, as ratified by Decree No. 4/12975 of the Borrower,
dated April 21, 1960, except Koppers Associates, S.A., a cor-
poration organized under the laws of Venezuela;
(f)  "Prior Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
dated April 28, 1972, between the Company and the Bank as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; such term includes
all agreements supplemental to the Prior Project Agreement
and all schedules to the Prior Project Agreement; and
(g) "tpy" means metric tons per year.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Company of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The President of the Company and such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing are designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Company to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Company to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
the Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the


﻿- 5 -
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction to the
generality of the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
the Borrower undertakes that it shall provide or cause to be
provided to the Company such additional funds as are needed to
meet the capital cost of carrying out the Project, interest
during construction for the Project, or the working capital
requirements of the Company over and above the funds to be pro-
vided under the agreements referred to in Recitals (D) and (E)
of the Preamble to this Agreement or by the Company itself if it
has funds in excess of those required to meet the current ratio
specified in Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement. For the
purpose of, and without limitation to, the foregoing the Borrower
undertakes, whenever following payments to be made pursuant to
this Section the Company's debt-equity ratio (as defined in
Section 4t03 of the Project Agreement) would exceed 60:40, to
take all such action as may be required or as may be appropriate
to provide such additional funds in the form of paid up equity, or
in the form of interest free subordinated debt maturing at least
20 years after its incurrence.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, the term "working
capital requirements of the Company" shall mean such requirements
of the Company as are needed to maintain the ratio set forth in
Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement, for purposes of determining
the Completion Date.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the


﻿allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of 4ny entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the ac,ount or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including assets held by T.C. Merkez
Bankasi or any other institution performing the functions of
a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar func-
tions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Company to perform
its obligations under the AID Reorganization Agreement, the
GOT Reorganization Agreement, the EXIM Loan and the AID Loan,
(all such terms having the meaning set forth in the Prior Loan
Agreement), and exercise its rights thereunder and ensure that
the Company shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank,
take or concur in any action which would materially or adversely
affect the interest of the Bank or the Project or which would
have the effect of assigning, revoking, suspending or abrogating
any one of such agreements, or amend or waive, in whole or in
part, any provision of any one of such agreements, if the effect
of such amendment or waiver would, in the opinion of the Bank,
affect the financial condition, business, operations or the
capacity of the Borrower or the Company to perform their respec-
tive obligations thereunder or under this Agreement or the Project
Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall not (i) initiate amend-
ments to Law No. 7462 or agree to the amendment of the Company's
Articles of Association or (ii) permit the Company to sell,
transfer, mortgage, pledge or otherwise dispose of any of its
assets or create or acquire any Subsidiary.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall permit the Company to
enter into contracts for the importation from overseas suppliers
of such quantities of iron ore and of coal as may be required
to fully utilize the Company's installed capacity so long as
this is: (i) the most economic method of supplying such require-
ments; and (ii) required to meet market demand for the Company's
products.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall notify the Bank prior
to permitting the Company to make any repayment in advance of
maturity of the loans referred to in Recitals (C), (D) and (E) of
the Prior Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or of the
loans referred to in Recitals (D) and (E) of this Agreement or
from any other source and shall not permit any such repayment to
be made which in the opinion of the Bank is substantial without
(i) the consent of the Bank and (ii) making a proportionate
prepayment of the Loan.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken,
all such reasonable action for coordinating the investments for
the expansion of the flat steel production capacity of steel
companies in its territory as required by its market conditions
prevailing in its territory.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation on the part of the Company, under the Project Agree-
ment, or the Borrower or the Company shall not have exercised
their rights under the AID Reorganization Agreement, the GOT
Reorganization Agreement, the EXIM Loan or the AID Loan (all such
terms having the same meaning as in the Prior Loan Agreement) or


﻿-8-
any of these agreements shall have been assigned, amended, sus-
pended, waived, abrogated or terminated in whole or in part
without the prior consent of the Bank;
(b) the Company shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
the Company or by others whereby any of its property or assets
shall or may be distributed among, or administered for the benefit
of, its creditors;
(c) any creditor of the Company shall have demanded payment
of monies provided to the Company under a loan having an original
maturity of one year or longer, prior to the agreed maturity of
such loan and in accordance with the terms of such loan;
(d) a change in the Company's Articles of Association shall
have been made without the prior consent of the Bank;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Company or for the suspension of its operations;
(f) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Company will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(g) any action has been taken resulting directly or indi-
rectly in a modification of the private status of the Company
as described in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement;
(h) a default shall occur under the Prior Loan Agreement
other than in respect of the payment of principal, interest or
other charges or any other payment required thereunder; or
(i) (A) Subject to subpaiagraph (B) of this paragraph:
(I) The right of the Borrower or of the Company,
as the case may be, to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower or
to the Company, as the case may be, for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or


﻿-9-
(II) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor.
(B) Subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (I) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower or of the Company, as the case may be, to
perform any of its obligations under such agree-
ment; and (II) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower or to the Company, as the
case may be, from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of the Company
under the Project Agreement; and
(j) The Borrower or the Company has failed to obtain the
Other Loans by December 31, 1979 and other arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank have not been made for the same purpose.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are snecified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (h) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Company; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (i) (A) (II) of, and
paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) and (g) of, Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the Company have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and the Company, respectively,


﻿- 10 -
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action; and
(c) all the Agreements relating to the Suppliers Credits
have been concluded on reasonable terms and shall be in full force
and effect.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Company, and is legally binding upon the
Company in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Company and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Company in accordance with its
terms; and
(c) that the Company is a joint stock company duly estab-
lished under the laws of the Borrower as a private company
exempted from Laws 440 and 468, and any other law or regulation
directly or indirectly applicable to the Borrower's state economic
enterprises, irrespective of whether the Borrower owns or controls
directly or indirectly 50% or more of the share capital of the
Company, and the Company has full power and authority to carry out
the construction and installation of the facilities included in
the Project and to operate them upon their completion, and has
all necessary rights and powers in connection therewith.
Section 6.03. The date October 30, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of ,-he General Conditions:


﻿- 11 -.
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
MALIYE
HAZINE
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
18.18 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Asaf GUven
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEMILOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Materials, equip-            74,000,000       100% of foreign
ment, spare parts,                           expenditures
freight, insurance                           and 100% of
and services related                         local expendi-
to the Project                               tures (exclud-
ing inland
freight)
(2) Consulting and                1,000,000       100% of foreign
technical services                           expenditures
including those for
the feasibility
study under Part I
of the Project
(3) Unallocated                  20,000,000
TOTAL         95,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000 may be made in respect of Category 2 on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
March 1, 1978.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the second phase of the Company's
long term expansion program and consists of the construction and
installation of facilities needed to fully utilize the inherent
iron and steel-making and hot rolling capacity installed near the
town of Eregli under the project financed out of the proceeds of
the Prior Loan, and of the construction of additional facilities
designed for ecology protection and for reduction of energy
consumption and operating costs. The facilities to be constructed
under the Project are expected to increase the Company's annual
production capacity from the present 1,100,000 tpy (in place or
under construction) to about 1,500,000 tpy of finished products,
corresponding to a steel-making capacity of about 2,000,000 tpy.
The increased capacity shall be achieved through:
Part A:   Purchase and installation of additions to raw material
handling systems to increase overall handling capacity,
and improve quality control and operating flexibility
in blending, crushing, screening of iron ore, coal
and limestone; including conveyors, bins, crushers,
stackers, and reclaimers as required to support iron
production of 1.8 million tpy.
Part B:   Purchase and installation of a new turbo blower.
Part C:   Construction and installation of facilities to increase
steelmaking capacity to a level of about 2.0 million
tpy, including new scrap preparation facilities, cranes,
automatic scrap baler and shear, manual burning beds.
Part D:   Construction and installation of one new continuous
slab caster unit with a capacity of about 0.6 million
tpy.
Part E:   Improvements in the slab yard and hot strip mill to
achieve capacity of about 1.7 million tpy, including
purchase and installation of cranes, computer controls,
a strip cooling system third coiler and slab yard
extension.


﻿- 15 -
Part F:   Improvements in hot and cold rolled finishing facili-
ties, including purchase and installation of a new shear
line, annealing furnaces, cranes and second stand on
temper mill to achieve a capacity of about 1.5 million
tpy of finished products.
Part G:   Construction and installation of additional facilities
to improve quality, reduce costs, and conserve energy,
including a fourth BF hot stove, and a new bag house
filter system for collection of sinter plant dust.
Part H:   Construction and installation of expanded utilities,
services, and effluent treatment and pollution monitor-
ing facilities (including a new biological treatment
plant for coke plant effluents), to support the levels
of operations shown above.
Part I:   A feasibility study for the evaluation and initial
preparation of phases III and IV of the Company's steel
production expansion program, including analysis of
alternative methods of treatment for sewage from the
plant and the town of Eregli.
The Project is expected to be physically completed by Decem-
ber 31, 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1982
through   November 15, 1994                   3,655,000
On May 15, 1995                                    3,625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%


