Report No. PID893
Project Name                     Nepal-Multimodal Transit and Trade (@ +)
Facilitation Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Infrastructure
Project ID                       NPPA10509
Borrower                         His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N)
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Commerce
Kathmandu, Nepal
Contact: Secretary
Tel: 977-1-215347 & 215324 Fax: N/A
Date this PID was revised        November 24,1997
Project Appraisal Date           End June, 1996
Project Board Date               November 25, 1997
1. Country and Sector Background. Since Nepal is a landlocked
country with no direct access to a sea port, over 98% of its foreign
trade (in value terms) is transported by road and rail, with transit
through India. However, the present methods of handling and
transporting Nepal's transit traffic through India are highly
inefficient and expensive.
2. Project Objectives. The main project objective is to reduce
the transport and transit costs associated with Nepal's imports and
exports through India which will help reduce the internal price of
imported goods, increase export competitiveness and improve the
terms of trade. The reduction in transport costs would be achieved
through reducing transport, transit and storage costs, minimizing
pilferage and loss of cargo, increasing service reliability, and
increasing competition in the provision of transport services. The
project would help streamline trade and transit procedures and make
the transit trade more efficient and better organized.
3. Project Description. The proposed project will include four
major components:
(a) construction of an inland container depot (ICD) facility for
rail and road transport at Birgunj; (b) construction of an ICD for
road transport at Biratnagar and at Bhairawa; (c) procurement of
essential major equipment for the IFTs; and (e) technical assistance
to the Ministry of Commerce (MOC) and the Ministry of Works and
Transport (MOWT). The technical assistance component would support:
(i) technical assistance and training for trade facilitation; (ii)
computer-based information systems to simplify transit procedures at
Birgunj, Bhairawa and Biratnagar (Automated Systems for Customs Data
- ASYCUDA); (iii) installation of Advance Cargo Information System
(ACIS); and (iv) consultancy services for design and supervision of
physical works. Linked with the project, India will, as part of its
bilateral assistance to Nepal, fund the construction of a 5 km rail



spur to link the current rail terminus at Raxaul, India, with the
proposed ICD at Sirsya (Birgunj, Nepal).
4. Project Financing. Total cost is presently estimated at
US$28.5 million equivalent with a tentative IDA contribution of
US$23 million equivalent. The cost estimate was updated after
receipt of bids for the civil works. Apart from the proposed IDA
credit the balance will be funded by the Government of Nepal.
Additional equipment for the three ICDs will be provided by the lessee.
5. Project Implementation. The project will be implemented over
about a three year period. Project preparation has been supervised
by a project coordinator in MOWT and an inter-ministerial Project
Steering Committee. The project will be implemented by the Ministry
of Commerce under the oversight of a reformulated Project Steering
Committee. The management of ICDs, on completion, will be on a
commercial basis with the terminal operators selected on a
transparent competitive basis with suitable leasing arrangements.
6. Project Sustainability.    Project sustainability is expected
to be ensured by extensive private sector involvement in the long-
term operation of the ICDs with a well-conceived and transparent
regulatory framework. This, together with the expected financial
returns, should enhance the private sector's willingness to invest
and operate the ICDs. The result of the competitive process should
be to accelerate the development of the rail freight and container
transport mode and to further strengthen the road transport of
containers, thus ensuring the long-term sustainability of the project.
The institution building goals underlying the project should be sustained
through the development of human resources. The institutional components
of the project should lead to a long term and permanent reduction in the
cost of moving freight to and from Nepal. This should in turn
enable a more rapid growth in trade volumes which should generate
increasing amounts of business for the three IFTs, further enhancing
their long-term sustainability.
7. Poverty Category. Not applicable
8. Environmental Aspects.    Environmental Category is B.   No
adverse environmental impact likely. The project should have
significant environmental benefits through reduced air pollution and
reduced traffic congestion in Birgunj. This will be caused by the
gradual diversion of traffic from trucks to the new rail service on
the Sirsya (Birgunj) - Calcutta transport corridor. The civil works
contracts would provide for appropriate environmentally acceptable
construction methods. A baseline social and economic survey has
been prepared together with a resettlement action plan which has
been considered to be in full compliance with the relevant Bank
Group's ODs.
9. Program Objective Categories. They are transport, trade and
private sector development.
-2-



Contact Point:           InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 3 -



ANNEX
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS: A SUMMARY
1.      There are no significant environmental issues associated with
the proposed project and no adverse environmental impact is likely.
The only environmental risks relate to those normally associated
with civil works. The civil works contract would provide for: (i)
full restoration and landscaping of burrow areas, quarries and spoil
tips opened specifically for this project; (ii) provision of
storage areas, especially for petroleum products; (iii) adoption of
sanitary arrangements in offices, yards and on site; and (iv)
avoiding contamination of water courses and groundwater. The
terminal construction and operation should therefore result in
minimal adverse environmental impact.
2.      The project is expected to have major net environmental
benefits in the form of reduced air pollution and reduced traffic
congestion in Sirsiya (Birgunj). This will be the result of the
gradual but substantial diversion of traffic from road transport to
the much more environmentally friendly rail transport in the Sisya
(Birgunj) - Calcutta transport corridor which accounts for the bulk
of Nepal's foreign trade.
-4-



