Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3008 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Multimodal Transit and Trade Facilitation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 18, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3008 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1997, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the construction of a rail spur from Raxaul, India, to Sirsiya (Birgunj), 
Nepal, will be financed and carried out by the Government of India as indicated in the 
Joint Statements; and
(C)
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right 
of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous  period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association 
determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during  the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association determines that the procurement of any 
contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement 
and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of  the Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such  notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Joint Statements” means, collectively, the statements in respect of the 
proposed rail spur from Raxaul, India, to Sirsiya (Birgunj), Nepal, contained in: (i) 
the Agreed Minutes of the First Session of the Indo-Nepal High Level Task Force, dated 
April 15, 1994; (ii) the Joint Statement issued on February 17, 1996 by the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs of the Borrower on the occasion of the Visit of the Prime Minister 
of Nepal to India (February 11-17, 1996); (iii) the Agreed Minutes of the Third 
Meeting of the High Level Indo-Nepal Task Force dated August 9, 1996; and (iv) the 
letter dated June 5, 1997 of Ambassador of India to the Kingdom of Nepal, to His 
Majesty’s Government of Nepal;
(b)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
February 8, 1993, March 11, 1996 and December 23, 1996 between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(c)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
“Nepal Rastra Bank” means the Borrower’s central bank established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as amended;
Page  3
(e)
“MOWT” means the Ministry of Works and Transport of the Borrower;
(f)
“MOC” means the Ministry of Commerce of the Borrower; and
(g)
“Nepalese Rupees” or “NRs” means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 17,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Nepal Rastra Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
Page  4
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2008 and ending November 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, administrative, engineering, trade and transport practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
Page  5
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association (A) as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, unaudited copies of such records and accounts, 
and (B) as 
soon as available, but in any case not later 
than nine months after the 
end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
construction of the rail spur from Raxaul, India, to Sirsiya (Birgunj), Nepal, will be 
completed by May 31, 1999.
Page  6
(b)
The formation order of the Borrower establishing the Nepal Intermodal 
Transportation (Development) Board shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Nepal Intermodal 
Transportation (Development) Board or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, any event specified in paragraphs 
(a), (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Nepal Intermodal Transportation (Development)  Board has been duly 
established to the satisfaction of the Association; and
(b)
a Project Accounts Officer with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association has been assigned to MOC, with responsibility for 
maintaining Project accounts.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Nepal Intermodal 
Transportation (Development) Board has been duly established and is validly existing 
under the laws of the Borrower. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty’s Government of Nepal
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:
Telex:
ARTHA
2249-ARTHA NP
Kathmandu
Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By  /s/ Lava K. Devacota 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Robert Drysdale 
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
11,430,000
90%
(2)
Goods
 1,300,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost), and
70% of local expendi-
tures for other items 
procured locally
(3)
Services including
 2,600,000
100%
consultants and
training
(4)
Resettlement costs
   100,000
100%
under Part A of the
Project
(5)
Refunding of Project   370,000
Amount due pursuant
Page  8
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
 1,200,000
        _________
TOTAL
       17,000,000
       ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
100,000, may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1997; and
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and 
works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, for consultants’ services not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent in the case of firms and $5,000 equivalent in the case of 
individuals, and for resettlement costs and training, respectively, under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce transport costs associated with 
Nepal’s imports and exports and to streamline trade and transit procedures and improve 
the efficiency and organization of transit trade documentation and data exchange.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Construction of a rail and road multimodal transfer terminal (inland 
container depot (ICD)) at Sirsiya near Birgunj, including warehouse space, goods shed, 
administrative office building, customs laboratory, truck scale, electrical systems 
and utilities, and customs inspection and cargo clearance zones; provision of 
equipment for the transfer terminal and customs laboratory; financing of expenditures 
in respect of implementation of the Resettlement Policy Framework and Acquisition, 
Compensation and Rehabilitation Plan (excluding costs of land acquisition); and 
provision of supervision consultants to oversee civil works.
Part B:
Improvement of the existing road freight facility at Biratnagar, 
including construction of warehouse space and an administrative office building; 
upgrading of electrical systems and utilities; and provision of equipment and 
supervision consultants to  oversee civil works.
Part C:
Improvement of the existing road freight facility at Bhairahwa, including 
construction of warehouse space and administrative office building; upgrading of 
electrical systems and utilities; and provision of equipment and supervision 
consultants to oversee civil works.
Part D:
Assistance to the Borrower for trade facilitation activities, including 
(a) simplification of documents and procedures, (b) updating of carrier’s liability, 
multimodal transport and insurance provisions, (c) updating of customs administration 
policies and operational procedures, (d) strengthening of freight forwarding and 
customs clearing agency standards and capacity, (e) updating of  foreign-currency 
Page  9
regulations relating to transit trade, (f) improvement of trade and transit 
procedures, and (g) training.
Part E:
Automation of customs data at the Sirsiya/Birgunj, Bhairahwa and 
Biratnagar freight facilities through the provision of ASYCUDA (Automated Systems for 
Customs Data).
Part F:
Introduction and implementation of ACIS (Advanced Cargo Information 
Systems) as a freight tracking information system in the Calcutta-to-Birgunj rail 
corridor.
*      *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
In addition and parallel to the Project activities described above, the 
construction of a rail spur from Raxaul, India, to Sirsiya (Birgunj), Nepal, will be 
carried out and financed by the Government of India, pursuant to the Joint Statements.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for civil works contracts shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Page  10
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms or 
individual consultants raising the contract value thereof by an amount which is equal 
to or greater than 15% of the original contract value, and (e) the terms of reference 
for all technical assistance in respect of the Project, including training.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Steering Committee (PSC)
1.
The Borrower shall maintain the existing interministerial Project Steering 
Committee (PSC) throughout the period of Project implementation.  The PSC shall be 
responsible for overseeing Project implementation, shall be chaired by the Secretary 
of Commerce, and shall include representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the 
Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Works and Transport and the Department of 
Customs.  The Borrower shall ensure that the PSC implements the Project in accordance 
with the project implementation plan agreed with the Association.  
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established 
within the Ministry of Commerce throughout the period of Project implementation, with 
adequate numbers of professional staff with experience and qualifications satisfactory 
to the Association.
Terminal Management Companies (TMCs)
3.
Contracts with terminal management companies for operation of the inland freight 
terminals to be constructed or improved under the Project shall be awarded in a 
competitive tender process satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with a 
schedule, procedures and documentation acceptable to the Association.
Nepal Trade and Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC)
4.
The Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, to the Nepal Trade and 
Transport Facilitation Committee (NTTFC), promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the timely and effective accomplishment of 
NTTFC’s responsibilities.  The Borrower shall further ensure that the time-bound trade 
facilitation action plan agreed with the Association is implemented in a manner 
Page  11
satisfactory to the Association.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
5.
The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the acquisition of 
land for the Project and the resettlement of the people affected by the Project in 
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework and Acquisition, Compensation and 
Rehabilitation Plan dated November 28, 1996.
Environmental Aspects
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that all civil works contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall include environmental mitigation measures satisfactory to 
the Association, such measures to include, inter alia: (a) full restoration and 
landscaping of all burrow areas, quarries and spoil tips opened specifically for the 
Project; (b) preparation of storage areas, particularly those for diesel fuel and 
bitumen; (c) establishment of appropriate sanitary arrangements in offices, yards and 
on site; and (d) avoidance of contamination of water courses and groundwater.
Mid-Term Review
7.
The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association and in accordance with 
terms of reference and methodology satisfactory to the Association, undertake and 
complete by December 31, 1998 a mid-term review of the Project, and shall, promptly 
thereafter, carry out the agreed recommendations of such review in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
Coordination of Project Activities with Construction of the Rail Spur
8.
The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure timely and effective 
coordination of Project activities with the activities in respect of construction of 
the rail spur from Raxaul, India, to Sirsiya (Birgunj), Nepal, to be financed and 
carried out by the Government of India pursuant to the Joint Statements. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
9.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 1998, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A through F of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall 
be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
Page  13
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
