                                    Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                    ReportNo.:40141




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                      NEPAL

              MULTIMODAL TRANSIT PROJECT(Cr. 3008-NEP)


                                    July 10,2007




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluations
IndependentEvaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Nepalese Rupees (NRs.)




Abbreviations andAcronyms

ACIS                     Advanced Cargo Information System
ASYCUDA                  Automated Systems for Customs Data
CAS                      Country Assistance Strategy
ERR                      Economic Rate o f Return
GDP                      Gross Domestic Product
GO1                      Government o f India
GON                      Government o fNepal
I C B                    International Competitive Bidding
I C D                    Inland Container Depot
ICR                      Implementation Completion Report
IRs                      Indian Rupees
MOICS                    Ministry ofIndustry, Commerce and Supplies
MTTFP                    Multimodal Transit and Trade FacilitationProject
NITDB                    Nepal Intennodal Transport Development Board
N R S                    Nepalese Rupees
PAD                      Project Appraisal Document
PIU                      Project Implementation Unit
PPAR                     Project Perfonnance Assessment Report
RSA                      h i 1Service Agreement
TEU                      Twenty Foot Equivalent Units
T M C                    Terminal Management Company
UNCTAD                   UnitedNations Conference on Trade and Development
WAN                      Wide Area Network

Fiscal Year

Government:              July 16-July 15


Director-General, Independent Evaluation              : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)   : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluations      : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                          : Mr.Peter Freeman

                                                              i


 IEGWBMission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroupassessesthe programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is producing the
expected results,and second,to help developimproveddirections,policies,and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannuallyassessesabout 25 percent of
the Bank`s lendingoperationsthrough field work. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those
that are innovative,large,or complex; thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations;thosefor
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
important lessons.
       To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine project files and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders,and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquarters and
in localoffices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commentedon by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant. The completedPPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Boardof ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multipleevaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to
lending instrument,project design, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluationcriterion
(additionalinformationis available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectiveswere achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions:relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project`s
objectivesare consistentwith the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoralassistancestrategies and corporategoals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
AssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project'sdesign is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacyis the extent to which the project'sobjectives
were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the opportunitycost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives.The efficiency dimension generally is not appliedto adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation,that developmentoutcomes (or
expectedoutcomes)will not be maintained (or realized).Possibleratings for Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: High
Significant,Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supportedeffective implementationthroughappropriatesupervision(including ensuring adequate
transitionarrangements for regular operationof supported activitiesafter loan/creditclosing, toward the
achievementof development outcomes.The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratings for BankPerformance; Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenants and
agreements, toward the achievementof development outcomes.The rating has two dimensions:government
performanceand implementingagency(ies) performance.Possibleratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                                   ...
                                                                                   111



Contents

Preface................................................................................................................................~

Summary       ............................................................................................................................               vii

1. BackgroundandContext                                  ............................................................................................     1

2. The Project.,.........................................,....................................................................2

3. LessonsLearnedfrom the Project                                          ............................................................................  20

Annex A. Basic DataSheet                           ..............................................................................................        22

Annex B    .............................................................................................................................                 25

Annex C. BorrowerComments                                     ......................................................................................     33




This report was preparedbyThomas Kennedy, consultant, who assessedthe project inFebruary - March
2007. Peter Freemanwas task manager andRomayne Pereiraprovided administrative support.

                                                          iv


PrinciDalRatings
            1
                                                 ICR'                  ICR Review*              -____ PPAR
Outcome                                     Unsatisfactory       ModeratelyUnsatisfactory    Moderately Unsatisfactory
InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact*'              Substantial               Substantial
Risk to DevelopmentOutcome                                                                         Significant
Sustainability*"                                 Likely                    Likely
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory



Project                                 Task Manager/Leader           Division Chief/           Country Director
                                                                      Sector Director
 Appraisal                                  HaraldHansen           Jean Francois Baeur         Hans Rothenbuhler
 Completion                                    Fabio Galli           Guang Zhe Chen              KenichiOhashi




* The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department. The ICR Review
is an intermediateIEGWB product that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**ASof July 1,2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
'**AS of July 1, 2006, Sustainabilityhas been replacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are different,the
ratings are not directly comparable.

                                             V



Preface

This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the MultimodalTransit
andTrade FacilitationProject inNepal (Cr.3008). The World Bank approved a credit in
the amount o fUS$23.50 million on November 25, 1997; the credit was closed on
September 30, 2003, nearly two years later than planned (original closing date was
December 31,2001). The actual amount disbursedagainst the credit was US$ 18.24
million, as US$2.10 million was cancelled; the cancellation followed lower than
expected bidprices for the construction o f the facilities.

The project was selected for assessmentbecause o f a growing interest inmultimodal
facilities indeveloping countries and to confirm the ratings for this project which was
subject to delays before it could become operational.

The report is based on a review o fproject documents, including Implementation
Completion Report, Staff Appraisal Report, Memoranda to the President, legal
documents and project files, and discussions held with Bank staff involved inthe
projects. An IEGmission visitedNepal inFebruary 2007 to review project results and
met with individuals including national officials and experts, transporters, forwarders,
importers/exports, local officials and project staff.

Meetings were arranged inKathmandu with the kind assistance o f the World Bank
Resident Mission and the Nepal Intermodal Transport Development Board (NITDB). The
program for the IEGmission included meetings with operators o f the three Inland
Container Depots (ICDs), the Ministryo f Industry, Commerce and Supplies, the Ministry
o fFinance including the Department o f Customs, importers, exporters, freight
forwarders, the Federationo fNepalese Chambers o f Commerce and Industry,the Trade
and Export Promotion Centre as well as local Bank staff knowledgeable about the project
design and the circumstances surrounding its implementation.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPAR was sent to govemment
officials and agencies for their review. Comments received are attached as Annex C.


                                                vii


Summary
         This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) o fthe Multimodal
Transit and Trade Facilitation Project (Cr 3008 -NEP), approved on November 25,
1997.
         Nearly 90 percent o fNepal's foreign trade depends on access to India's transport
network, especially the port o f Kolkata, 1,056 km from Nepal. This lengthy transit route
adds significantly to the cost of the country's foreign trade, constraining the
competitiveness o f its exports and making its imports among the most expensive inthe
region. Economic growth andpoverty alleviation programs have consequently been
constrained. Reducing the transport cost o f country's foreign trade has longbeen an
objective o f the Government o fNepal (GON). The Nepal Multimodal Transit and Trade
Facilitation Project (NMTTFP) was designed to support the GON's efforts to reduce
transport costs and to introduce trade facilitation measures for third country trade.

         The project included improvements to Inland Container Depots (ICDs) at three
locations along the Indian border: a rail-based I C D at Sirsiya where rail traffic from India
i s transshipped to road trucks inNepal; and road-based ICDs at Biratnagar in the eastern
part o fNepal and Bhairahwa to the west o fKathmandu. Separate from this project, the
Government o f India (GoI) constructed a 5.4 kmrail spur from the existing rail teminal
at Raxaul to Sirsiya, 0.4 km insideNepal territory.

         The primary objectives o f the project were (i)    to reduce the transport costs o f
Nepal's foreign trade; and (ii)   to streamline trade and transit procedures and to improve
the efficiency and organization o f transit trade documentation and data exchange.
Transport costs would be reduced primarily through providing direct rail access to Nepal
at the Sirsiya ICD, permittinga shift away from road to rail transport, resultinginsavings
inoverall transport costs. The road-based ICDswould also result intransport cost savings
due to increasedusage ofcontainers, more efficient operations and streamlined transit
procedures.

         The overall outcome o fthe Project is rated moderately unsatisfactory, since the
project made little impact on the objective o f reducing the cost o fNepal's foreign trade
and only modest benefits were achieved in streamlining trade and transit procedures by
implementingthe Automated Systems for Customs Datapackage (ASYCUDA). The
critical issues that contributed to the above outcome rating o f the project were:
         Over-optimistic traffic forecasts for the Sirsiya rail-road ICD;
         A protractedperiodo fnegotiationbetweenNepal and Indiato finalize the Rail
         Service Agreement (RSA);
         Restrictive provisions included inthe RSA contrary to normal Bank practices and
         that further restrict the potential traffic that could be handledby the ICD; and
         Failure to implementthe full ASYCUDA package.

                                             viii


    Although the I C D ledto lower rail transport costs, manypotential users perceived
roadtransport to be quicker, more flexible and more reliable, offering a superior quality
o f service.
    The risk to development outcome i s rated significant. While the project design did
highlightthe considerable risk that traffic diversion from road to rail may not meet the
forecasts, the projections were erroneous and should have been revised with muchmore
stringentoversight o fthe original feasibility study in 1996.
    The Go1could have been involved earlier and more directly inproject discussions -
this couldhavepartially reduced the delay o fseveral years infinalizing the RSA, despite
the sensitive relations betweenthe two countries. Therewere also flaws inpreparation
and inthe selection and monitoring o f suitable performance indicators. The flawed traffic
projections gave rise to unrealistic expectations o f the project's results for the GoN, the
Bank and the private sector operator o f the rail based I C D at Sirsiya. Bank andborrower
performance was rated moderately satisfactory overall. Both teams were committed and
succeeded inestablishing an appropriate framework on which to build, but short-term
they failed to filly achieve the key development objectives. It i s suggested that the
following actions be considered by the Bank and the GoN:
         That a user conference beheldto improve utilization o f Sirsiya I C D and establish
         a user group to identifysteps to take to improve the service offered by the Sirsiya
         I C D and to maximize traffic throughput inthe future.

         That firther customs reform should ifpossible be accompanied by civil service
         reform o f compensation for customs officers.

Experience with this project suggests four lessons:

         TheBank should more critically reviewfeasibility studies that include diversion
         of traffic from road to rail.

         Projects that depend onformal international cooperation agreementsshould not
         commenceuntil such agreementsareformalized, or there is at least a strong
        possibility of such agreements being brought to a timely conclusion.

         For projects that require cooperationfrom organizations within more than one
         country, all relevant stakeholders including potential users should be thoroughly
         consulted.

         Implementation of customs reforms should ifpossible be coupled with a civil
         service compensation review to reduce the likelihood of corruption.




                                                                       Vinod Thomas
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                          Evaluation

                                                  1


1.Backgroundand Context

1.1     Nearly 90 percent o fNepal's foreign trade depends on access to India's transport
network, especially the port o fKolkata 1,056 km from Nepal. This lengthytransit route
adds significantly to the cost o f the country's foreign trade, constraining the
competitiveness o f its exports andmakingimports among the most expensive inthe
region. Economic growth andpoverty alleviation programs are similarly constrained.
Reducing the transport cost o fNepal's foreign trade has longbeen an objective o f the
Government o fNepal (GON). The Nepal MultimodalTransit and Trade Facilitation
Project (NMTTFP) was designed to support the GONefforts to reduce such costs and to
introduce trade facilitation measures for third country trade.

1.2      The objectives o fthe project were (i) reduce the transport costs o fNepal's
                                                  to
foreign trade; and (ii) to streamline trade and transit procedures and to improve the
efficiency and organization o f transit trade documentation and data exchange. Transport
costs would be reduced primarilythrough providing direct rail access to Nepal territory at
the Sirsiya InlandContainer Depot (ICD), located close to the Birgunjborderwith India,
permitting a modal shift away from road to rail transport, and resulting insavings in
overall transport costs. Greater use o f road-based ICDs would also result intransport cost
savings due to the shiftingo f goods from break-bulk to containers enabling more efficient
operations and streamlinedtransit procedures.

1.3      The project was closed at the endo f September 2003, but at that time, the Sirsiya
rail-road I C D hadnot yet opened on account o fprolongednegotiations over the Rail
Service Agreement (RSA)between India and Nepal, which hadnot beenfinalized.
Although the facility had been completed inDecember 2000 it remained unused for a
period o f 3.5 years. The Terminal Management Company (TMC) consequently also had
not been appointed.

1.4      The political instability that has troubled Nepal duringthe past several years, as
well as the worldwide economic downturn following the events o f September 11
adversely affected the country's economic performance and it was feared that this would
also have a negative effect on the outcome o f this project. Inaddition, the bilateral trade
with India has become a muchmore dominant portion o fNepal's total foreign trade
duringrecent years. As thirdcountry transit traffic has the greatest potential to move
through the Sirsiya ICD, this trend intrade patterns somewhat diminishes the potential
traffic "base" for the railhoad ICD.

1.5      The traffic forecast that underpinnedthe project's relatively highexpected
economic benefits    ' was developed    duringthe mid 1990's when Nepal's GDPwas
exhibiting rapid growth2.GDP growth has since moderated with negative growth during
'The SirsiyaICD, which comprised the majority o fthe project's funds, had an Economic Rate o fReturn
(ERR) of 45% as shown inthe StaffAppraisal Report.
'During  1994 Nepalhad a reported 9.9% GDP growth; 3.5% in 1995 and 5.3% in 1996;Asian
Development Bank, Key Indicators o f Developing Asian and Pacific Countries; www. Adb.org

                                                  2


2002 (-0.6 percent), recovering to over 3 percent for the following two years, before
falling to 1.9 percent in20063.Traffic growthwill therefore likely be lower than
projected throughout the evaluationperiod.

1.6     Inaddition, several modulesoftheAutomated Systemsfor Customs Data
(ASYCUDA) have not yet been implementedseverely limitingthe achievement o f the
second objective o f streamlining o f trade and transit procedures.

2. The Project

2.1      The project included improvements to ICDs at three primary locations: a rail-
based I C D at Sirsiya (close to the Birgunj border), where rail traffic from India i s
transshipped to road trucks inNepal; and road-based ICDs at Biratnagar inthe eastern
part o fNepal and Bhairahwa, inthe west. While there are 22 border crossings inNepal,
approximately 65 percent o f foreign trade moves through Birgunj, 15 percent through
Biratnagar, 10percent through Bhairhwa with the remaining 10percent moving through
the other 19 crossings. Separately from this project, the Government o f India(GoI)
undertook to construct a 5 kmrail spur from the existingrail terminal at Raxaul to
Sirsiya, about 400 meters insideNepal territory. Table 1summarizes the costs, projected
and actual, for each o f the project components. The projectedcosts are consistent with the
PAD, and actual costs were drawn from Annex 2 o f the ICR. Some o fthese actual costs
differ slightly from costs shown inthe text o fthe ICR.

2.2      As about 80 percent o fproject benefitswere projected for the rail/road ICD at
Sirsiya, and the majority o f the problems during implementation directly influenced
Sirsiya, much o f the discussion inthis PPAR focuses on this facility. Project objectives
(Box 1) sought to improve infrastructure at major ICDs and streamline procedures for
transit trade, resulting inreduced transport costs. Reduction o f transport costs has been a
long-term goal o fthe GoN and the project was designed to permit increased foreign trade
to use cheaper rail transport betweenthe port of Kolkata andthe Nepal border.

                 Table 1: Project lost by Compa lent (US$ millions)
                Component                 Appraisal      Actual Cost   I   Percentageof
                                           Estimate                         Appraisal
     Road and Rail Sirsiya (Birgunj)                18.0        12.57               69.8%
     ICD
     Road only Biratnagar ICD                        2.0         1.23               61.5%
     Road only Bhairhwa ICD                          1.9         1.38               72.6%
     Equipment for three ICD's                       2.0         1.19               59.5%
     Supervision Consultants                         0.8         0.98              122.5%
     TA for Trade Facilitation                       1.1         1.24              112.7%
     Introduction o f ASYCUDA                        1.1          1.83             166.4%
     Introduction o f ACIS                           1.1         0.58               52.7%
     Project Preparation                             -
                                                     0.5          -0.4              80.0%
     Total                                          28.5        21.40              75.1%




 IDA,Interim Strategy Note for Nepal; January 22, 2007

                                                               3


OBJECTIVES
Box 1. Summary of ProjectObjectivesandComponents

            NepalMultimodalTransit andTrade FacilitationProject(Cr. 3008)
                  Objectives                                      Components (with projected costs in USmillion)
To reducetransport costs associatedwith moving    A. Inland Container Depot (ICD) Improvements. Civil Worksand Equipment
Nepal's imports and exports.
                                                  Constructionof rail-based ICD at Sirsiya (Birgunj) with supporting railhoad
To streamlinetrade and transit proceduresand to   links, storage, andcustomsfacilities US$ 18.0million. Inaddition, this
improvethe efficiency and organization of transit component includedactivitiesrelated to the ResettlementAction Plan(RAP),
trade documentationand data exchange.             excluding land acquisition.Inparallel, though not includedin the Bank project,
                                                  the Governmento f Indiaconstructeda 5 kmrail connectionbetweenthe Sirsiya
                                                  ICD and the existingrailterminus of Raxaul in India.

                                                  Improvementsto the roadICD's at Biratnagar (US$2.0 million) and Bhairahwa
                                                  (USl.9 million). Includedwere civil works for improvementsto existingroad-
                                                  based ICD's at these two locations.

                                                  Equipment Procurement.This componentincludedthe purchaseof four reach
                                                  stackers - two for the rail -based ICD at Sirsiyaand one each at Biratnagar and
                                                  BhairahwaICD's (US$2.0 million).

                                                  Supervision consultants(US$ 0.8 million). This componentincludedfinancing
                                                  supervision consultantsto supervisethe construction andimprovement of the
                                                  three ICD's.

                                                  B. Tradeand Transit Facilitation

                                                  Technical Assistancefor trade facilitation (US$ 1,lmillion). This component
                                                  included (a) simplification of documents;(b)modernization o f carrier's liability,
                                                  multimodal transport and insuranceprovisions; (c) modernization of custom
                                                  administrationpolicies and operationalprocedures;(d) strengtheningof freight
                                                  forwarding and customs clearingagency standards and capacity; and (e)
                                                  updatingof foreign- currencyregulations relating to transit trade.

                                                  Installation of Automated Systemsfor Customs Data(ASYCUDA) (US$ 1.I
                                                  million). By introducing ASYCUDA along with greater selectivity in customs
                                                  examination, the incidence of fraud is reducedand clearance of freight is
                                                  expedited.
                                                  Installation of Advance Cargo InformationSystems(ACIS) (US$ 1.1 million)
                                                  This component included the implementationof ACIS as a freight tracking
                                                  information system.

                                                  Renavment o f Proiect Prenaratinn Facilitieq I1JSZ 0 5 million1
                                                  .._...-..-.
                                                      -      . -.-   _ _ .- .- _ .. - _ _
                                                                              _. -..     ...
                                                                                           ..-- ,-- -. .......-..
                                                                                                   - -

1997

COSTS

2.3       The appraisal cost was US$28.50 million (including contingencies), comprising a
credit o fUS$23.5 million and the balance o f counterpart fundingo f US$5.0 million from
the GoN. At project completion the final cost was US$21.4 million (25 percent below the
appraisal estimate) with US$18.3 million from the credit. US$3.16 was contributed by
the GoN and US$2.1 cancelled.

IMPLEMENTATION              ISSUES

2.4       Global practice usually involves a through bill o f lading to be issuedby the
shippingcompany directly to the ICD, butthis does not apply to the ICD at Sirsiya.
Indian customs clearance for imports still takes place inKolkata, as well as at Raxaul for

                                               4


goods destined for the Sirsiya ICD. Some o f the advantages o f seamless transit usually
associated with establishingan I C D thus do not exist for the Sirsiya facility. The
possibility o f shippingcompanies issuing through bills o f lading to Sirsiya is, however,
currently beingdiscussed.

2.5     Inretrospect, itmighthavebeenprudentto more extensively involve
representatives o f importers, exporters and freight forwarders inNepal inthe designo f
the components ofthe project and their likely impact on diversion o ftraffic from roadto
rail. With stakeholders directly involved inthe project definition, essential components o f
theproject that may have ledto maximizing traffic movingthrough the facility would
have been identified duringthe project preparation stage. For example, a more frequent
andreliable rail service has been highlightedbypotential users, as the most serious
shortfall o f the ICD.

2.6     Implementation was seriously delayed due to exogenous factors not under the
control o f the project. While the construction o fthe Sirsiya ICD was completed in
December 2000, including construction o f the rail spur financed by the GoI, there were
long delays infinalizing the RSA between India andNepal as well as inselecting the
TMC to operate the Sirsiya facility. Operation o f the facility began inJuly 2004. With
hindsight,the RSA should havebeenconcludedprior to the start o fthe Project.

2.7     A Project ImplementationUnit (PIU) was established at the Ministryo fIndustry,
Commerce and Supplies (MOICS); an international supervision consultant was retained
to monitor construction work at the ICDs and the United Nations Conference on trade
and Development (UNCTAD) supported the implementation o f trade and transit
facilitation components o fthe project.

2.8     The Sirsiya ICD is operated bythe Himalayan Terminal Pvt. Ltd., a consortium o f
four companies, two from Nepal (40 percent) and two from India (60 percent); the lead
firm inthis consortium is CONCOR (Container Corporationo fIndia Ltd.). Other
members o f the consortium include Transworld Group (India); Interstate MultiModal
Transport (Pvt.) Ltd andNepal Transit Warehousing Corporation.

2.9     Traffic movingthrough the facility, however, has been far lower thanprojections.
Duringthe fiscal year 2004/5, the facility handled 5,651 TEUs; during2005/6 throughput
was 9,629 TEUs and duringthe 5 month period July-November 2006 5,244 TEUs. Inthe
original traffic forecasts prepared by RITES, the consultant responsible for the feasibility
study, duringthe first year o foperation there was inexcess o f 800,000 tons projected to
move through the facility (the equivalent o f more than 50,000 TEUs). Projections were
modified inthe ICR where it was projectedthat by 2005 more than 38,000 TEUs would
be handled. Actual traffic through the facility is still far short o f even these revised
projections.

2.10    The ERR for the Sirsiya facility was estimated to be 45 percent, as shown inthe
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) o f October 29, 1997. Underlying this benefit
calculation was the assumption as stated inthe P A D ". ...that existing traffic (usingroad
transport) will be diverted gradually to rail following the opening o f the new facility (50

                                                5


percent for the first year, 75 percent for the second year and 100percent for the third year
andonward)". The IEGmission considers these diversion assumptions to be unrealistic
and as part of its review o f the feasibility study, the Bank should have highlightedthese
very optimistic forecasts and asked the consultant to reevaluate/justify the assumptions
underlyingtheir traffic forecasts.

2.11    The basis for the estimated traffic diversion to the I C D and calculation o fbenefits
was the difference between road andrail transport costs. This ignored the impact o f time
costs, and the highvalue the transport users, especially exporters, place on time and
reliability. The longer and unreliable transit times by rail have beencited as the prime
reasons why more traffic does not pass through the ICD, The very hightraffic forecasts
were pursued through both the PAD, the ICR, and are still beingusedby the current
TMC o f the ICD as a basis for comparing actual traffic.

2.12     Other contributing factors for the shortfall intraffic include the restrictive
provisions inthe RSA, which limitsthe type o f cargo that can be handled at the Sirsiya
ICD. Initially, the Agreement stipulated that only one third o f country transit traffic was
permitted to move through the facility; subsequently, the RSA was amended to permit the
movement o fbilateral trade with India. The Agreement provides for a periodic review
andmodification o ftechnical and operational aspects incoordination meetings between
representatives of the two governments heldat least once every six months.

2.13    Moreover, only traffic in closed wagons was originally allowed to move through
the ICD. While break-bulk traffic is now permitted, the facility has to date, not moved
any significant amounts o fthis traffic (only 32,000 tons during 20096). Most break-bulk
traffic moves either by rail from Indiaconsigned to Raxaul, then moved to Nepal byroad,
or i s moved by road over the entire distance. There is little incentive to the shipperto
move bilateral trade (Indian imports/exports) through the ICD. The IEGmission revealed
duringdiscussions with importers that one possible reason for the preference for road
transport i s the lax customs procedures at the Birgunjroadborder, where only cursory
customs inspections are performed. Some importers are said to under declare volumes in
road vehicles and are able to import these larger volumes without paying additional
duties. Customs inspections at the Sirsiya I C D are said to be more thorough. The mission
could not independently verify this assertion.

2.14    Another alleged reason for the traffic shortfall was the political unrest that gripped
Nepal during implementation o f the project, but this i s not substantially borne out by the
foreign trade statistics. While GDP growth inNepal has moderated since the mid 1 9 9 0 ~ ~
there has not been a significant impact on foreign trade, as shown inFigure 1. The figure
summarizes Nepal's foreign trade since 2001/2, interms o f value, inUS$ millions4.The
table indicates a constant growth inboth imports and exports during the period. Limited
information was available from the Customs department for specific border crossings;
this is shown inAnnex ByTable B5. The only apparentdecrease inforeign trade during
this periodwas the volume of exports moving through Birgunj; during2005/6 traffic
decreased by nearly 20 percent from the previous year. Duringthe same period, the value

 The US$/NRsmid-year exchange rate

                                                        6


o f exports through Biratnagar also decreased by about 5 percent.

2.15    One important change inthe pattern o fNepal's foreign trade has beenthe relative
importance o f the Indian component. Duringthe decade o fthe 1990's about 19 percent of
Nepal's exports and 35 percent o f imports were accounted for by India. By 2005, both
directions o f trade were about 68 percent dependent on India (see Annex ByFigureBl).
As trade with Indiais considered bythe missionto be less likely to use the Sirsiya ICD,
the potential traffic base for the ICDhas actually decreased duringthe past 10years.


                              Figure 1: Nepal's Foreign Trade ($ millions)

                1
          2500 1                                             -_-----
          2000                            ___-.----
          1500 1                  .---
                      -.e--                                                           Exports
          1000 ;
            500 1     k-_-.Imports



Source: Nepal Ministry o f Industry, Commerce and Supplies; Trade Promotion Centre; exchange rates as
        per www.xe.com

2.16    As for the goal o f streamlining trade andtransit procedures, implementation of the
Automated Systems for Customs Data (ASYCUDA) was part o fthe project. Anticipated
projected benefits included an increase inthe efficiency of processing goods at customs
clearance locations. As noted inthe ICR, for ASYCUDA to generate the full benefits o f
reducing the time to clear customs and associated transaction costs, the second stage
reforms (not part o f the original project design) had to be implemented; (a) different
modules o f ASYCUDA had first to be introduced; (b) risk management and selectivity
had to be adopted; and (c) the existing manual system (determiningcustoms duty rates
and valuation) needed to be phased out. Without these improvements, ASYCUDA's
impact on customs clearance would remain marginal.

2.17    The PAD specifies "the full implementation o fASYCUDA" with no elaboration
as to the specific modules that were to be implemented. Projectedbenefits were described
inthe PAD as "improved data availability, streamlinedprocedures, enhancedhuman
capital, etc." This description i s quite vague and difficult to evaluate ex post. The first
stage o f ASYCUDA (implementedduringthe project) provided for the means to develop
a customs data base; the second stage would have involved implementingthe selectivity
criteria and risk assessment to search commodity flows, and to select those that require
closer attention. These critical second stage modules were only added to the project in
December 2001 (the original closing date o fthe Project). As o f early 2007, these second
stage ASYCUDA modules have yet to be implemented through an Asian Development

 As per the SAR, the project is to include ". ..a full implementationofASYCUDA"

                                                 7


Bank (ADB) assistancepackage. They include the risk management and selectivity
modules, as well as the Wide Area Network (WAN) that would link the computerized
offices with a central server inKathmandu.

2.18     Only the declaration and accounting modules o f ASYCUDA were implemented
underthe project andthe time-consuming manualprocedures remained ineffect. The
primary utilization o f computers inthe process o f clearing o f goods i s for automated
checking o fthe internal consistency o f the declaration, application o fthe duty andtax
rates corresponding to the declared code of the commodity, and verification o f the
correctness o fthe calculation. As all other steps are still beingperformed manually, there
has been little impact on improving revenue or speeding-up customs clearance.

OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE

2.19     All project components constructed underthe project havebeen fully completed.
There were no apparent maintenance issues with the facilities or equipment acquired
underthe project. The only issue raisedduring discussions with the terminal operators
was the rehabilitation o f an access road that was damaged duringconstruction; this
problem had already been satisfactorily resolvedusingfunds under the project.

MONITORINGEVALUATION
                AND                  (M&E)

2.20     There are four assessments for rating the project's M& E quality: design,
implementation, utilization and overall rating. Key Indicators were given inthe PAD in
support o fthe Country Assistance Strategy, the project development objectives and
project outputs. Most o f these key indicators were not achieved, either because they set
unattainable targets or due to delays inthe utilization ofthe facilities.

2.21     M&EDesign.Withregardto the design, the ratingisNegligible.Severalofthe
keyindicators contained goals that the IEGmissionconsideredunreasonable. The PAD
included a project design summary listing several critical monitoring indicators that
reflected the project's goals to reduce transit times from the port so as to lower transport
costs by 15 percent after the first year o f I C D operation and a further 10percent after two
years; to increase the percentage o f the GDP generated by private sector economic
activity; to increase the market share o f containerizedfreight (thirdcountry) from 5 to 25
percent after the first year o f operation; and to decrease transit cycle times from ship to
I C D andback from 20 days to 15 days. These monitoring indicators were not only
difficult to measure, but inthe view o f IEGwere unachievable, because o f the redundant
traffic forecasts. For example, inthe PAD the basis for the 15 percent transport cost
reductionwas not specified -whether this meant 15 percent reduction inthe cost of all o f
Nepal's foreign trade, only that portion o fNepal's foreign trade that passed through the
Birgunj customs depot or only o fthat portion o ftraffic diverted to the Sirsiya ICDis
unclear. The PAD was weak, inthat it didnot fully describe all project components nor
did it include any indication ofthe traffic that was forecasted to be moved through the
ICD; only the economic rate o f return(ERR) was shown, with some sensitivity analysis.

2.22     Inorder to properly compare flows throughthe Sirsiya ICDwith total flows

                                                     8


through the Birgunj customs post, the IEGmission estimated the total volume o f foreign
trade movingthrough the Birgunj customs facility by comparing the value o f imports
with tonnage o fimports movingthrough the Sirsiya ICD during2005/66.Applying the
average value per ton to the customs data shows that imports through Birgunjtotaled 2.75
million tons and exports, 0.779 million tons. As Indian bilateral trade i s approximately 68
percent o f the total, for both imports and exportsY7the estimated tonnage o f Indian
bilateral trade crossing the Birgunj border was 1.87 million tons o f imports and 0.53
million tons of imports'. The Sirsiya I C D moves only about 6 percent o fNepal's imports
that pass through Birgunj,and about 19 percent o f third country imports moving through
Birgunj. Clearly, the goal o freducingtransport costs o fNepal's import/export goods
after the first year o f commencement o f I C D operation was not met, nor i s it likely to be
reached inthe foreseeable future.

2.23      While transport costs are lower by rail than road, it i s unrealistic to expect
dramatic shifts intraffic when the quality o f service i s not the same. Transit times
betweenthe port (Kolkata) and Nepal by road are quite consistent according to users-
between 3 and 4 days. By rail, transit times can be up to 8 days or more. These longer
transit times are primarilydue to infrequenttrain services. Users are willing to pay a
premiumfor service reliability, particularly for exports which need to meet ship sailing
dates.

2.24      Another o f the key indicators chosen was the increase inthe percentage o f GDP
generated by project-induced private sector economic activity; this was an unrealistic
indicator. The I C D handles only a portion o ftotal imports and virtually no exports. There
has beenno measurable growth inforeign trade on account o f this small shift intransport
mode. The IEGmission helddiscussions with importers, exporters and freight
forwarders, andthere was little enthusiasm expressed for the rail-road I C D andthe rail
service between Kolkuta and Sirsiya. Ofthe importers that utilize the I C D approximately
40 percent o f users are govemment entities, andmost shippers cited the long and
unpredictable transit times as the primary reason for continuing to utilize road
transport.   lo


2.25      M& EImplementation.Onlyalimitedamount ofinformationregardingthe
achievement o f key indicators was available. The Sirsiya I C D operator has calculated
transit time cycles for containers from Kolkata, but only for rail traffic. There was no


  During this period a total of 9,629 TEUs (134,806 tons @ 14 tons/TEU) moved through the Sirsiya ICD,
inadditionto 31,399 tons ofbreak-bulk goods for a total of 166,205 tons ofimports. According to
customs data (Annex B, Table B-9,the value ofthese goods was IRs 4,602,639,000, for an averagevalue
o f IRs 27,692 per ton. The total value of goods moving through the Birgunj customs office during the same
period was IRs 76,066 million of imports andIRs 21,567 millionof exports.
  Trade and Export Promotion Centre ofNepal; www.tpcnepal.ors.nr,
8 The value for exports is probably somewhat overstated, as the value per ton for exports i s likely higher
than for imports.
  This is disputedby MOICS/NITDB.
I OA website has beencreatedto track transit times which may becomemore predictable over time.

                                               9


comparison with cycle times usingroad transport, which was the transport mode used by
containers prior to the I C D opening in2004. There was also no comparison o f the
transport cost o fNepal's tradable goods before and after the project, as proposedat
appraisal and no evaluation o f the market share o f containerizedtruckhail freight vs.
break-bulkfreight.Finally, there was no indicationo fthepercentage o fGDP generated
by private sector economic activity.

2.26    The IEGmission did, however, attempt to evaluate transit times based on
information obtained from interviews inKathmandu. According to these interviews it
was found that by road, current one-way transit times are between 3 and4 days. During
the first year o fthe Sirsiya ICD operation, a container made the roundtrip from Kolkata
to Nepal by rail in 19 days; the next year, as train frequency increased, turn-around times
decreased to 8.5 days. This i s not a transport time saving attributable to the ICD; all this
shows i s that rail transport improved on its previous transit times, through increased
frequency o f train service. The IEGmission considers that most o fthe key indicators
were not met.

2.27    Some modules o fASYCUDA have beenimplemented, but, these have not been
sufficient to achieve any significant benefits for movements o f goods through customs or
an increase inreceipts o f duties. Key indicators as shown inthe S A R were insome cases
unspecific, others were unrealistic and ingeneral inappropriate to properly measure the
success o f the project. The mission therefore rates the M& E Implementation as Modest.

2.28    M& EUtilization, There was no evidence that theM&Efindingswere
communicated to stakeholders. For example, some statistics was obtained from Customs
bythe IEGmission, which showed the value o f foreign trade movingthrough each o fthe
three border crossings (Birgunj,Biratnagar and Bhairhwa), but this information i s
incomplete and was available only from 2001; a comparison with the period prior to the
project implementation was not possible. Inthe project design summary o f the PAD, the
Department o f Customs was supposed to monitor growth intraffic volume; the PIUwas
to monitor cycle times and MOICS was to collect data on transportationcosts and
transportation market share. IEGcould find no evidence o f this information having been
collected. Inthe ICR, only one o f the six key indicators was shown as not achieved; this
was the "15 percent reduction intransport costs o f tradable goods.. ." There was,
moreover, no evaluation o f the Project's M& E. The mission therefore rates the M& E
Utilizationas Negligible.

2.29    Overall M& E Rating. Two o f the three M& E elements were rankedas
Negligible, and one ranked Modest. The overall rating i s therefore rated as Negligible.
The M& Eindicators included inthe PAD hadmany weaknesses and had little impact on
the successful monitoring o fthe project. Manywere found to be unrealistic andmost
were not achieved.


SUMMARY OF OVERALLRESULTS

2.30    All physical andinstitutional elements o fthe project were completedwithin
budget and the quality o f the works was considered to be good. The primary negative

                                                        10


issues were the serious shortfall inactual traffic moving through the facility compared
with forecasts, andthe longdelay incommencement o f operations at the Sirsiyarail ICD;
construction was complete inDecember 2000 but operations only beganmore than three
and a halfyears later.

Delay in Finalizing theRail ServiceAgreement

2.31     The primary reasons for the longdelay inopening the Sirsiya facility were the
finalization o f the RSA between India andNepal (the agreement was signed on May 1,
2004 after a three - year period o fnegotiation) and the subsequent selection o f the T M C
to operate the facility. Key issues that proved to be stumblingblocks to a quick resolution
o fthese negotiations were related to national sovereignty and security.

2.32     The final Agreement contained several provisions restricting the traffic that would
be moved through the I C D which may have compromised the efficient operation o f the
facility. The RSA stipulated that the T M C to be appointedto operate the facility should
either be an Indian company, a Nepalese company or ajoint Indo-Nepal Joint Venture
(Section 4.2) and included a restriction concerning types o f rail wagon allowed in
interchange between India andNepal so that only container wagons and covered goods
wagons would bepermitted (Section 10.2). The Bank usually requires that the selection
o f a T M C be as a result o f international competitive bidding(ICB)". While not known
for certain, there may have been a more efficient and effective operator selected, had the
bidbeenopento ICB inaccordance with normal practice. The restrictiveprovisionthat
excluded open wagons, as well as refrigerated wagons/containers undoubtedly had a
negative impact on potential future traffic levels moving through the facility.

2.33     Another point o f contention duringthe negotiationswas the issue o f the Indian
customs facility which was to be located inside Nepal at the ICD; (India cited security
reasons for this location, but the GoN opposed this provision). Indian customs inspection
for ICD-bound traffic now takes place outside the I C D at Raxaul. However, ajointly
operated I C Dwith customs for both countries at the same location would have resulted in
a muchmore efficient one-stop facility.

2.34      The period duringwhich the RSA with Indiawas being discussed, came at the
time o f increased tension between the two countries. The hijacking o f an Indian Airlines
aircraft at Kathmandu airport on March 13, 2000 strained relations further and resolution
o f this incident took precedence over consideration o f the RSA. While this was not the
only reason for the delay, it certainly was a contributing factor and it emphasized the
importance o f security, as perceived by the GoI.


I'This was apparently not what was envisagedbythe Bank inthis instance as expressed inthe Field
MissionReport o f M a y 7, 1996: "During the mission it was agreed that one experienced private terminal
management company (TMC) selected o n a transparent and competitive basis, will manage the day to day
operations and serve as the primary tenant ineachterminal.. .The Birgunjterminal will require "world
class" management expertise in order to realize its full economic benefit for the Nepalese economy.
Moreover, it i s sufficiently large to attract world class terminal operating companies. Hence, international
companies who have successful track records in intermodal terminal operations are expected to respond to
an invitation to bid on the Birgunj operation.

                                                        11


Over-optimistic TrafJic Forecasts

2.35     Economic benefits from the Project were far below the projections set out inthe
PAD. However, the mission considers that even ifthe rail-based ICD had opened on
schedule, project benefits would still likely have been well below projections on account
o fthe reluctance o f shippers to change their mode o f transport. The PAD had projected
that 50 percent o f foreign trade for Nepal crossing the border at Birganjwould move to
rail inthe first year after opening o f the Sirsiya ICD, with 70 percent inthe second year
and 100percent after the third year. Infact, the facility opened inmid2004, and traffic
recorded duringthe early years o f operationwas far below projections. Table 2
summarizes traffic moving through the I C D since opening. Traffic consists o f imported
container traffic as well as some break-bulk; all o f this traffic i s from third countries
transiting India destined for Nepal. Export traffic from Nepal is negligible. Only 6
percent o fNepal's foreign trade passing through the Birgunjborder i s moving through
the ICD.

         Table 2: Actual Traffic Moving through Sirsiya ICD

            Traffic Type            2004 - 2005           2005 - 2006               July 2006 -NOV     2006
    Containers (TEU)                           5,65 1                9,629                               5,244
    Break Bulk (tons)                         2,300                 31,399                              32,163

         year from July 16 -July 15 o f each year

2.36     Traffic projections as developed inthe feasibility study report                   l2are summarized
inTable 3. Itcanbeseenthat projections arehigh, when comparedwith actual traffic
now moving through the ICD. Figure 2 shows the actual tonnage moving through the
facility (revisedprojections by the mission, based on actual throughput during two years
o f operation) with the original forecasts        l3 The actual facility throughput has been
converted to tons, using an average net weight o f 14 tons/TEU. Basedon this
comparison, the extent o f the difference between the original forecast and actual traffic i s
dramatic.

2.37     Projections for third country containerized imports were, however, closer to
existing traffic. During2005/6 a total o f 9,629 TEUs were moved, compared with the
projectiono f 14,916 for the first year o f operation. But only 32,000 tons o f third country
break-bulk imports were moved through the ICD, less than one third o f projections.
Essentially no export traffic has been moved through the ICD. Iftotal traffic projected for
the first year o f operation (887,415 tons), i s compared with actual traffic (166,205 tons),
the actual traffic i s less than 20 percent o fprojections. The most striking shortfall
compared with projections is the absence o f any bilateral Indiantraffic and export third
country traffic. Export container traffic does not feature on account of the unreliable

12Nepal Multimodal Transit and Trade Facilitation Project; Project Preparation Services; RITES, January
1996

l3As the facility opened five year later than the first year o f the original traffic forecast, the forecast
tonnages as shown for "2000-01" inthe original traffic forecast are shown as "2005" when compared with
actual traffic.

                                                   12


transit times by rail, according to exporters and freight forwarders inNepal. The IEG
mission considers the forecasts inthe feasibility study presented a misleading impression
o fthe economic and financial viability o f the project.

Table 3: Sirsiya ICD Traffic Forecasts (tons)

                                          I 2000-01   I    2005-06    I  2011-12     I    2016-17
Imports:
Thirdcountry containerized (tons) (TEU)      237,407         377,726        489,165         567,370
                                             (14,916)        (21,763)       (27,952)       (31,850)
Thirdcountry break-bulk (thirdcountry)
Bilateral trade                               117,980        168,s12        237,652         3 17,027
Total Imports
                                             471.001         720.327        963,618       1,169.556
                                              826,388       1,266,525      1,690,435      2,043,953
Exports:
Thirdcountry containerized (tons)               61,027         99,122        136,063        165,541
(TEU)                                          (4,359)        (7,081)        (9,719)       (11,824)
Bilateral
Total Exports                                   61,027         99,122        136,063        165,541




                             Figure 2: Sirsiya ICD Original Forecasts and
                                          Revised Forecasts
                                                 (tons)

                      I
              2500000 1

              2000000

              1500000                                                             Revised
              1000000 -      /./-/./-*.*-*./-*./-*./- -_-                        .Original




RevisedEconomic and FinancialEvaluation

2.38      Despite the fact that actual traffic through the Sirsiya ICD was far below
projections, the ERR for the project (usingthe original assumptions and excluding quality
o f service costs) was still found to be positive. The mission revised the economic
evaluation o f the Sirsiya ICD incorporating actual traffic; the revised economic
calculation i s shown inAnnex B, Table B-1.Based on 4.5 month's o ftraffic data during
2006-2007 some 5,244 TEUs were moved, which annualized would be about 13,000
TEU. However, due to the internalsecurity problems inthe Terai regiono fNepalduring
early 2007, when the I C D andthe border were closed for several weeks, it i s doubtful that
more than 10,000 TEUs would have moved. The mission calculated an updated
comparison o ftransport cost savings for rail compared with road between Kolkata and

                                                    13


the Birgunj border. Informationprovided by one o f the consortium partners operating the
Sirsiya I C D (Interstate Multi-Modal Transport) indicates the cost for rail movement o f a
20' container i s IndianRupees (IRs) 31,435 and for road 45,000. As these were 2006
calculations, usingthe June 15 2006 conversion rate o f $1 = IRs 45.9 (www.xe.com) the
cost comparison i s for road $980/TEU         l4 and for rail $685/TEU, or a savingo f $295/TEU
(lRs 13,500). IEGincludedthe actual capital cost o f the Sirsiya I C D o f $12 million in
addition to actual operating costs     15. It was assumed that benefits o fthe break-bulktraffic
movingwould be similar to those o f containerized goods. The benefit o f $295/TEU was
dividedby 14tons/TEU to derive abenefit o f $21.07/ton for break-bulk traffic. Applying
a projected traffic growth factor o f 3 percent per year to 2010, and 5 percent thereafter,
the ERRwas found to be over 17 percent and NPV o f $11.41 million, after adjusting all
costs by the standard conversion factor of 0.9         16.This calculationdoes not include the
annual lease cost that the operator pays to the GoN for use o f the infrastructure provided
under the project, as it would double count the capital costs.

2.39     The financial evaluation o fthe project, given inthe feasibility studythat
underpinnedthe PAD, showed a rate o freturno f 19 percent. Inthe section o fthe
feasibility study describing financial results it was stated that the need to carry out
sensitivityanalysis would not be necessary: "once the economies o f scale start operating,
theprofits will bevery high". While the ICR contained a revised economic evaluation
based on delayed opening o f the facility and for lower traffic projections, there was no
recalculation o f the financial analysis for the Sirsiya ICD, which was a serious
shortcoming giventhe financial difficulties o fthe TMC.

2.40     The TMC o f the Sirsiya I C D provided IEGwith existing andprojectedrevenues
and operating costs o f the facility. The mission used these figures, after some revision, to
develop a revised financial evaluation for the facility, shown inAnnex B Table B-2.
Existing container andbreak-bulk traffic has beenused, projected to increase at an annual
rate o f 3 percent/year to 2010; 5 percent/year thereafter. Operating costs are assumed to
be20 percent variable with traffic growth, while revenues increase directly with traffic.
The lease cost o f the facility i s taken as N R s 52 millionper year to 2007 and N R s 115.20
million per year thereafter, as per the existing contract provisions. The losses each year
are shown to decrease slightly over the 10 year leaseperiod from $1.30 millionin2007 to
about $1.18 million in2013. Two factors could lead to a positive operating profit: an
increase intraffic or a reduction inlease payments. The mission finds that iftraffic from
2007 increases 2.75 times the revised forecast (see Annex B Table B-3), or ifthe lease
payment was reduced to 20 percent (see Annex B Table B-4), the cash flow position turns
positive for the operator from 2009. The TMC should have conducted its own due
diligence prior to entering into this lease agreement and should not have relied only upon

l4The mission confirmed this figure by comparing existing road transport costs (February 2007) between
Kathmandu and Kolkata by interviewing existing road transport users and freight forwarding companies.
The current cost is about $950.
15Operating costs o f the ICD (excluding lease) during 2005/6 were NER27.92 million; dividingby 9,629
TEU and applying an exchange rate o fUS$1-NER70,the operating cost is $0.000042 millionper TEU

l6Inthe ICR the standard conversion factor o f 0.9 was applied to financial costs; this was determined to be
appropriate by the mission.

                                                       14


results o f the feasibility study o fRITES; there was no guarantee on the part o fthe GoN
with regardto traffic movingthrough the facility; the results ofthe RITES studywere
included as information only to potential bidders.

2.41     Based on the existing financial performance o f the facility, it is doubtful whether
the existing operator will be able to survive without government intervention, giventhe
serious financial losses being incurred; the mission does not foresee a likely future
scenario that will result insufficient traffic to reverse this trend. The GoN may wish to
revisit the lease cost issue with the existing operator, ifonly to keep the operation o f the
facility inthe private sector.

2.42     The mission interviewed existing users and freight forwarding agents to determine
why more traffic diversion to railhadnot taken place. Theprimary issue was reliability,
while transport cost was a secondary concern. One importer o f fabric and an exporter o f
clothing expressed the concern that the production line inKathmanduwas dependent on
the regular arrival o f raw materials inorder to minimize stockholding. Movemento f
exports o f finished products had to be carefully timed to meet the sailing dates o f ships at
Kolkata port. Road transport, while more expensive thanrail, provided better reliability.
Rail transit times, though often similar, could on occasion be longer, as the train service
i s not, at present, operated daily.I7From 2006, the trains operated into the I C D on an
average o f 2 to 3 times per week. A train i s dispatched from Kolkata (35 flat wagons)
when a full train load o fcontainers is available (between 60 and 70 TEUs). This means
that inmany cases, containers bound for Nepal have to wait two to three days for the next
train departure.

2.43     There i s scarcely any export traffic moving through the Sirsiya ICD. Interviews
with exporters and several freight forwarders inKathmanduconsistentlypointed to the
unreliability o f the roadrail service through the I C D to Kolkuta. Exports from Nepal
typically are clothing destined for North America and carpets, boundprimarily for
Europe. It i s critical for such shipments to arrive inKolkata port on time. It has been the
experience o fthese exporters that usingthe rail route, transit times are unreliable-if                   the
vessel sailing is missed, exporters face either at least a one week delay waiting for the
next sailing, or the shipment must be sent by air freight at a considerable cost to the
exporter. For this reason, more predictableroad transport conveyance i s preferable to rail
transport, even with higher transport costs. A factor that tends to reduce road transport
costs to Kolkata i s the large number o f available vehicles inNepal that have brought
imports from Kolkata, whose operators are anxious to find return loads andwilling to
convey goods at a discountedprice.



   Based on the mission's discussion with importers and exporters inNepal, the rail option has beenused in
the past (prior to the construction o f the ICD) but service proved to be unreliable. Freight forwarders in
Kathmandu also advise against using rail transport due to the unreliable service, even with the ICD now
operational. Rail service frequency was only about 3 trains per week from Sirsiya ICD during 2005/6; this
increased to about 6 trains per week during the period July-November 2006. Road transport users also
expressed concern over diverting traffic to rail, even with cost savings, as long-standing relationships have
been developed with the road transporters and forwarders and there was a perceived risk inbreaking these
relationships.

                                                15


2.44    Based on the perceivedunreliability o f rail transport, exports from Nepal cannot
be considered to bepotential traffic for the Sirsiya ICD, based on current operations. In
addition, o f the total foreign trade crossing the border at Birgunj, approximately 68
percent represents bilateral trade with India, most o fwhich i s break bulk traffic. While
the I C D does move some break-bulk commodities, the RSA at present restricts the type
ofrail wagons permitted, thus restricting the future traffic potential. Nepal's imports tend
to be lower invalue and less time sensitive than its exports. This situation favors rail
transport for some imports, and road for nearly all exports. Unless the rail option (through
the Sirsiya ICD) can provide consistentlyreliable transit times from locations within
Nepal and the port o fKolkata, road transport will likely continue to move nearly all o f
Nepal's exports.

2.45    Container traffic for Nepal arrives at two ports inthe vicinity o f Kolkata-
Kolkata Port and Haldia Port (120 kmeast o fKolkata). During2005/6 there were 23,860
TEUs arrivingat both Kolkata and Haldia destined for Nepal (approximately 80 percent
from Kolkata; the remainder from Haldia). At present there is no direct rail service from
Haldia to Birgunj; so all Haldia port traffic destined for Nepal is moved by road. During
the same year, 40 percent o f all containers arriving at bothKolkata and Haldiadestined
for Nepal from Kolkata were moved by rail; the remainder by road. Therefore, the only
potential additional import traffic for Nepal amounted to no more than 6,900 TEUs
during2005/6.

Failure to ImplementASYCUDA in Full

2.46    The two critical ASYCUDA modules that were not implemented were the risk
management and selective checking modules. These modules would have provided
complete information regarding shipments to shippers and freight forwarders, as well as
developed a risk assessment mechanism enablingcustoms authorities to select only the
highrisk shipments for scrutiny. Without these modules inplace, thebenefits anticipated
inthe PAD couldnotbe fully realized.

2.47    Inthe ICRitwas statedthat theseriskmanagement and selectivity moduleswere
not part o f the original design o f the project; the additional modules were added to the
project duringthe Tri Partite Review Meeting inDecember 2001. Inaddition, the
introduction o fthe WAN for the system that would provide information linkages between
customs locations at borders with Kathmandu, was also not implemented. With only
partial implementation, any benefits expected from this component o f the project were
marginal. Duringthe IEGmission, discussions were heldwith Bank staff as well as
representatives o fthe Ministry o f Financeregarding this issue. There was, it appears, a
long delay inmaking operational the IT division o f the Department o f Customs; this was
given as one reason for the failure to implement the WAN. Inaddition, there were several
pieces o f key legislation (such as the Carriage o f Goods by Road and the Multimodal
Transport Act) required to assist inachieving improvements intrade facilitation and
customs modernization. The Nepal parliament was suspended duringthe latter stages o f
the project and the lack of this legislation constrained the project inachieving all its
goals.

                                               16


2.48      It is generally acknowledgedthat some customs officials at Nepal's border posts
are susceptible to corruption. Successful implementation o f any type o f major customs
reform should preferably have been coupled with civil service reforms addressing
compensation and other issues to reduce the likelihood o f corruption on the part o f
customs officers. The mission therefore suggests this to be taken into considerationwith
any further implementation o f ASYCUDA modules.

2.49      Another issue that affected the implementation o f ASYCUDA was the
requirement o f the GONthat the Nepali language be used inall official customs
documents. A print filter program was required to print inEnglishon a preformatted
Nepali form. As o fproject closure, UNCTAD was unable to find a developer that would
develop Nepali fonts for ASYCUDA.

PERFORMANCE        RATINGS

Table4: PerformanceRatingsby Objective

Objective                             ReIevance       Efficacy       Efficiency    Outcome
Reduce transport costs for Nepal's    Substantial      Modest         Modest       Moderately
foreign trade                                                                    Unsatisfactory
Streamline trade and transit          Substantial      Modest        Negligible    Moderately
procedures and improve efficiency                                                Unsatisfactory
and organization of transit trade
documentation and data exchange
      Overall Outcome Rating          Substantial      Modest         Modest      Moderately
                                                                                 Unsatisfactory



2.50      Outcomeof FirstObjective:Reduce Transport Costsfor Nepal's Imports and
Exports. The needed infrastructure was completed successfully albeit three and a half
years before the primary Sirsiya I C D could be put into operation. Based on the original
assumptions, the ERR exceeded 17percent for Sirsiya despite the delay. However, what
was calculated as the mainbenefit was the difference between the price o f rail and road
transport. This does not reflect the real cost as perceivedby the shippers which includes
quality o f service aspects such as transit times, flexibility and uncertainty indelivery
dates. Such hidden cost factors resulted inonly the less time sensitive traffic diverting
from road to rail and calls into questionthe ability to sustain this growth into the future.
Had the contribution by the Go1to finance the 5 kmconnection linking Raxaul with
Birgunjbeenfactoredinto the project andnot treated as a sunk cost the ERRwould
probably have been negative. The PAD projections were unrealistic and unachievable.
Currently the actual traffic moving through the I C D is only 3 percent o fNepal's foreign
trade (and includes virtually no export traffic), which i s extremely modest. Financial
viability has also not been achieved and M&E was negligible. Taking into account that
some institutional progress was made mainlywith the setting-up o fthe regulatory
framework and introduction o f private sector participationwas effected the outcome of
this first objective is ratedModerately Unsatisfactory.

                                             17


2.5 1   Outcome of the Second Objective: Streamline Trade and TransitProcedures.
Some o f the trade and transit procedures were introduced, but most o f the inefficient
manual procedures are still being usedbecause two critical ASYCUDA modules still
remain outstanding. The project has, however, provided a basis for the remaining
modules when implemented, andthis should eventually result inthe benefits o f faster
processing time o f goods as well as increased revenue collections from customs duties.
The outcome o fthis second objective is ratedbythe IEGmission as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

2.52    Outcome of the Overall Project. Most o f the project financing (andthe source of
about 80 percent o f benefits) was attributed to the first objective, to reduce transport
costs. Some transport costs were reduced though only about 3 percent o f foreign trade
(the focus ofthe maindevelopment objective) passesthrough Sirsiya; no exports use the
facility on account o f the poor service perception o f the users. As the first and second
objectives were partially achieved, the overall outcome o fthe project has been rated as
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

2.53    Relevance. The Project's objectives are relevant to the needs o fNepal as well as
the Bank's strategy. It has long been a goal o fthe GoNto reduce the country's transport
costs for foreign trade to enable Nepal to better compete inworld markets. Simplification
o f customs procedures and documentationwill improve the efficiency and organization
o f transit trade documentation and data exchange. The need for streamlining o f customs
procedures i s highlighted inthe Bank's latest Nepal Country Assistance Strategy o f 2003.
Relevance of the objectives i s considered Substantial.With regard to relevance o fthe
Project's design, while there was a clear statement o f objectives, the targets identified and
the causal chainbetweenthe Bank's fundingand the intendedoutcomes is far from clear.
The performancemonitoring and evaluation systemshown inthe project design summary
included key indicators that were difficult to measure and ingeneral, too ambitious.
Simply establishing an I C D at Sirsiya was not sufficient to result inthe large modal shifts
intraffic reflected inthe keyindicators for the project; there should havebeena greater
involvement o f importers, exporters and freight forwarders inthe project design so as to
maximize the traffic diversion potential.

2.54    Efficacy. The first objective, to reduce the transport costs o fNepal's foreign
trade, was only partially achieved. Transport costs for traffic that was diverted to rail and
moved through the Sirsiya ICD were reduced, but this traffic was far less thanprojected
inthe project's feasibility study.Inthe feasibility study itwas projectedthat 826,388 tons
would move through the Sirsiya ICD; inpractice, duringthe first full year o f operation,
only 166,205 tons were handled. The second project objective, to streamline trade and
transit procedures and improve efficiency and organization o f transit trade documentation
and data exchange, was only partially achieved. Inefficient manual procedures remain in
place; infact the limited computerizedprocedures have been imposed on top o f the
manualprocedures and ASYCUDA has only beenpartially implemented. The overall
efficacy rating is Modest.

2.55    Efficiency. The ERR for the Sirsiya I C D facility given inthe PAD (45 percent)
could not possibly have been achieved primarily due to the over-ambitious traffic

                                                     18


forecasts and the long delay inopening the Sirsiya rail-basedICD. Inspite o f the lower
traffic, however, the missionrecalculated the ERR for the Sirsiya facility to be 17.4
percent" but this does not take into account the hidden costs explained inparagraph 2.50.
Moreover, the private operator i s ina negative financial position. While this i s strictly not
the direct concern o f the project, and the operator should have performed his own due
diligence with regardto projected revenues and costs, the over-optimistic traffic forecasts
have been usedby the operator inrepresentations to the GoN for financial relief from the
lease costs for the facility, as well as a request (not supported by IEG) for the "directing"
o ftraffic to the ICD. Efficiency in achieving the first objective i s ratedModest.

2.56     Although there was modest progress towards achieving the second objective, to
streamline trade and transit procedures and to improve the efficiency and organization o f
transit trade documentation and data exchange, some critical ASYCUDA modules were
not implemented. Efficiency inachieving the second objective i s ratedNegligible.With
regard to the overall efficiency o f the project, there were significant weaknesses inthe
feasibility study that underpinnedthe financial and economic justification o f the project.
The overall efficiency rating o fthe project is considered to beModest.

2.57     Riskto Development Outcome. The risk at the time o fthis evaluation, that
development outcome will not be realized i s rated significant. One o fthe expected
outcomes o f the project was that extensive private sector involvement inthe long term
operation o f the ICD's. While private sector organizations are incharge o f each o f the
ICD's, there are serious financial problems with the operation o f the Sirsiya I C Dwhich
put the sustained financial viability o fthe facility indoubt. The risko flower than
expected traffic to be diverted from roadto rail should have been more carefully
assessed. Project benefits for the Sirsiya rail-based ICD were based solely on the
difference intransport costs between road and rail betweenKolkata and the Nepal border;
Transport modal choice decisions are often made on other factors (reliability, time value,
long-standing relationshipswith carriers, etc.) and the impact o fthe cost difference for
the landleg o fthe totaljourney may often not be sufficient to warrant changing mode o f
transport. Based on discussions with potential users inKathmandu, the importance o f
time and reliability are paramount.

2.58     Bank Performance: Quality at Entry.Although some aspects such as technical
design, poverty, gender, environmental and social issues were prepared well, the Bank
failed to properly appraise the project's feasibility studywhich underpinnedboththe
projectedhightraffic volumes, and the economic and financial results. Not only were the
percentages o f traffic diversion too high, but the basis on which they were applied was
inappropriate. Most of the traffic forecasted for the I C D was bilateral trade with India.
This traffic is virtually all break-bulk with little incentive to use the ICD. The traffic base
for forecasting I C D traffic shouldbe primarily third country transit traffic, with more
moderate diversion expectations; if some bilateral trade could be attracted to the facility,
then this would be a small bonus. The PAD, which relied heavily on the feasibility study,
accepted the overly-optimistic and unrealistic projections; these assumptions continued to

"Itshould  be noted that the ERR was recalculated inthe ICRand shown to be 14.5 percent. The mission
reviewed this calculation and found that it should have been muchhigher, approximately 28 percent.

                                              19


be usedthroughout the project's implementation.

2.59    The definition o fthe specific modules o f ASUYCUDA to be implementedunder
the project was another serious issue. There are only broad general statements inthe PAD
relating to this matter. It should have clearly identified each component o f the project;
this was not done. However, several o fthe ASYCUDA modules were implemented,
although the critical modules still outstanding include the selectivity module that i s
critical to the achievement o f the projected benefits. These important remainingmodules
are plannedfor implementation under an ongoing ADB project. Because o f these
oversights, the Bank's performance with respect to Quality at Entry i s ratedModerately
Unsatisfactory.

2.60     BankPerformance:Quality of Supervision.Bank supervision o fthe works and
related issues was satisfactory. The Bank did make several efforts to assist in expediting
the negotiations between IndiaandNepal for the RSA, but delays infinalizing this
agreement caused the facility (Sirsiya ICD) to lie idle for more than 3.5 years. With
hindsight, the negotiations should have begunbefore the commencement o f the project.
However, it i s unlikely that any additional efforts by the Bank would have resultedina
much quicker resolution o f this protracted and complex negotiation. The difficult process
of implementingASYCUDA was also complicated by the addition, duringthe Tri Partite
Review Meeting inDecember 2001,o fthe missingmodules o f ASYCUDA (identified as
the Selectivitymodule, and the Statisticalmodule), butjust one year before the original
completion date, and with no functioning IT Divisionwithin the Department o f Customs.
However, these additional modules were critical to the success o f the ASYCUDA
implementationand the achievement o f some o f the project benefits. The complete
ASYCUDA package is now expected to be implemented under an ongoing ADB project.
The mission considers, however, that the Bank's Quality o f Supervision was by and large
Satisfactory.

2.61     OverallBankPerformanceis ratedModerately Satisfactory. The mission
considered that although the project's Quality at Entrywas weak the Quality o f
Supervisionwas good and the physical works were implementedeffectively and below
budget.

2.62     Borrower Performance:GovernmentPerformance.A shortcomingwith the
performance o f the Government was the protractednegotiations with India over the RSA.
These negotiations should have begunwell before commencement o f the project. As
stated inthe Project's Aide Memoire o f April 4,2003, the suspension o f Parliament
duringthe part o fthe project's implementationperiod also meant that keypieces o f
transport legislation could not be enacted. The GoN could have acted more quickly in
considering these matters earlier, which would have established a better legal framework
within which to achieve the second objective ofthe project. There was also a longdelay
inmakingthe InformationTechnology Divisiono ftheDepartmento fCustoms
operational; this factor contributed to the delayed implementation o f all remaining
ASYCUDA activities. By the end o f the project, as shown inthe NMTTFP Progress
Report o f September 2003, an IT division at the Customs department still had not been
created. Government performance i s rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

                                                20


2.63     BorrowerPerformance:ImplementingAgency Performance.The rating ofthe
implementing agency, the National Intermodal Transport Development Board (NITDB)
is ratedModerately Satisfactory. There were some shortcomings, such as having to re-
bid for the TMC o fthe ICDs, though this was relatedto the long delay infinalizing the
Rail Service Agreement, and not under the direct control o f the NITDB.There were also
some regulatory issues that required arbitration to resolve, particularly relating to the
agreements between the T M C and the Government. However, like the Bank the
implementing agency failed to do due diligence on the serious flaws inthe feasibility
study. Overall government performance i s ratedModerately Satisfactory; despite clear
commitment to the project it bore the ultimate responsibility for the outcome and follow
UP.

3. Lessons Learned from the Project

3.1      Inadditionto the identification oflessons learned the missionhas suggesteda
possible future strategy that could be adopted; an approach that could leadto increased
traffic through the facility and an improved financial position for the operator.

Suggested Future Actions toAssist Transportin Nepal

3.2      It is recommendedthat a user conference beheldto improve the utilization o f
Sirsiya I C D and that a user group be established. The GoN now has an I C D that i s
underutilizedwith a fraction o f the imports andnone of exports movingthrough the
facility; the country is not achieving the benefits projected. The best course o f actionnow
i s to undertake specific steps that should have beentaken during the conception of the
project. The IEGmission suggests that the GoN (through NITDB)hold a conference in
Kathmandu, inviting major stakeholders inNepal's transport industry, including major
importers, exporters, freight forwarders and representatives o f the IndianRailways and
the TMC o fthe Sirsiya ICD. The focus o fthe conference would beto actively promote
the use o fthe facility and to identifyspecific actions to be taken that would increase the
ICDs usefulness inserving the foreign trade ofNepal. One o f the initial target markets for
this conference would be exporters, who now do not currently use the ICD.

3.3      One result o fthe conference shouldbe the formation o f a Transport Working
Group that would monitor service quality on the rail route betweenNepal and Kolkata,
and the ICD, and continue to respond to problems encountered by existing users and to
promote the route to non users. Some suggested agenda items at the conference include
the introduction o f definition o f a trial period o f improved service on the rail route, via
the ICD, to encourage more exports as well as imports, to use the facility.

3.4      Specific improvement suggestions duringthis trial period would come primarily
from existing and potential users, but some suggestions include the operation o f a daily
train service between Kolkata port and the ICD, regardless o f the number o f wagons
loaded; this might decrease transit times and increase the service reliability, which have
been common complaints amongmany users and potential users. IndianRailways now
operates only full 35 wagon trains; it mightbe worthwhile for the GoN to offer to
subsidize the IndianRailways (duringthis trail period) for the initial losses incurred in

                                              21


operating shorter rakes, for a limitedperiod o f time while reaction to the new service i s
evaluated. It has also been alleged by some ex-users that not all shipmentsreceive equal
treatment within the ICD; Le., some shipments are expedited while others are delayed
unnecessarily. Fears o f such concerns inside the I C D need to be eliminated with a clear
and transparent description ofthe organization and demonstrationo fprocedures followed
within the ICD. Manynonusers o f the facility have such negativeperceptions (real or
imagined) o f the I C D and only through open dialogue can these perceptions be alleviated.
Inaddition to discussions, trips to the ICDto demonstrate the procedures mightproveto
be helpful ingenerating user confidence.

3.5     It is possible to develop a smooth-running road and railmultimodal service for the
benefit o f importers, exporters and the operators, while minimizingthe risk o f transport
delay. However, this does not happen automatically by opening the doors o f the ICD; it
mustbe actively promotedby assembling all stakeholders, engaging infrank discussions,
and responding to the concerns o fpotential users. It i s important that this kindo f direct
involvement o fpotential users o f a new service be included inthe formulation o f similar
projects inthe future.

3.6      Itis generally acknowledgedthat customs officials at many o fNepal's borders are
susceptible to corruption. Successful implementation o fnew procedures and systems
should be reinforced with civil service reform o f compensation to reduce the likelihood
o f corruption on the part o f customs officers. IEGrecommends this course o f action for
considerationto accompany any further implementation o f ASYCUDA modules. A
critical part o f the customs reform shouldbe the elimination o fmanual procedures, which
put the customs officer personally inthe clearance procedure, increasingthe potential for
corruption.

Lessons

         TheBank should more critically reviewfeasibility studies that include diversion
         of trafflc from road to rail.

        Projects that depend onformal international cooperation agreements should not
         commence until such agreements areformalized, or there is at least a strong
        possibility of such agreements being brought to a timely conclusion.

        For projects that require cooperationfrom organizations within more than one
         country, all relevant stakeholders includingpotential users should be thoroughly
         consulted.

        Implementation of customs reforms should ifpossible be coupled with a civil
        service compensation review to reduce the likelihood of corruption.

                                                                   22


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

MULTIMODAL                     TRANSITAND TRADE                   FACILITATIONPROJECT(CREDIT
3008-NEP)


                                                   Appraisal                                         Actual or         Actual as % of
                                                   estimate                                       current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total projectcost                                    28.5                                              21.4                 75.1%
Loan amount                                         23.50                                              18.24                77.6%
Cofinancing
Total cancellation                                                                                     2.10



Proiect Dates

   ""..""l."".."" .......  ....  ......        ....                             Original                            -__-
                                                                                                                       Actual
                                                        ..,.I ..... "ll".".l."l,""."..l"."".."""
                       I     "   "       "   ""               " "                                       111111"1                       "11
Appraisal                                                                    06/06/1996                               06/06/1996
Negotiations                                                                 03/03/1997                               03/03/1997
Boardapproval                                                                 11/25/1997                              11/25/1997
Signing                                                                       12/18/1997                              12118/1997
Effectiveness                                                                01/31/1998                               02/04/1998
Closing date                                                                  12/31/2001                              09/30/2003




StaffInputs (staffweeks)
           Stage of Cycle                                                                       ActualLatest Estimate
                                                                       No. Staff weeks                            US$ (000)
Identification/Preappraisal                                                                     155                     453
AppraisaVNegotiation                                                                            92                      290
Supervision                                                                                     177                     602
ICR
Total                                                                                           424                    1345
             (1) Latestestimatefigures includetravel expenses as well.
             (2) Trust Fund use of about US$276,410.0
             (3) Actual expenditureon ICR is includedin Supervision

                                                23


Mission Data
                    Date      No.of        Specializations               Performance Rating
                (month/year) persons          represented              Imple.Prog. Dev.Object.
Identification/  11/22/1992     5   Transport Specialist, Transport
Preparation                         Economist,Highway Engineer
                                    (2), EnvironmentalSpecialist
                  3/20/1993     2   TransportSpecialist, Transport
                                    Economist
                 03/10/1994     1   TransportSpecialist
                 06/20/1994     3   TransportSpecialist,Transport
                                    and Trade Facilitation Specialist,
                                    TransportEconomist
                 12/05/1994     1   TransportSpecialist
                 04/04/1995     5   TransportSpecialist,Transport
                                    Economist, Privatization
                                    Specialist,Trade Facilitation
                                    Specialist, Procurement
                                    Specialist
                 06/09/1995     2   TransportSpecialist,
                                    PrivatizationSpecialist
                 11/15/1995     7   Transport Economist, Financial
                                    Analyst, Urban Redevelopment
                                    Specialist, Privatization
                                    Specialist,Transport and Trade
                                    FacilitationSpecialist, Port
                                    Specialist, Procurement
                                    Specialist
                  4116/1996     9   TransportEconomist, Financial
                                    Analyst, Urban Development
                                    Specialist, Privatization
                                    Specialist,Transport and Trade
                                    FacilitationSpecialist, Port
                                    Specialist,Procurement
                                    Specialist, Railway Specialist,
                                    TransportSpecialist
                 10/18/1996     1   TransportEconomist

Appraisal/       07111/1996     7   TransportEconomist, Financial
Negotiation                         Analyst, Urban Redevelopment
                                    Specialist,Privatization
                                    Specialist,Transport and Trade
                                    Facilitationspecialist, Transport
                                    Specialist

                                                       24


Supervision    02/07/1998        7        Transport Economist. Financial       S    S
                                          Analyst (2), PrivateSector
                                          Specialist, Highways Engineer,
                                          Procurement,Trade Facilitation
                                          Expert
               06/07/1998        5        Transport Economist, Financial,      S    S
                                          PrivateSector Specialist,
                                          HighwaysEngineers,
                                          Operations Officer
               10/07/1998        4        FinancialAnalyst. Transport          S    S
                                          Economist,Highway Engineer,
                                          Transport and Trade Facilitation
                                          Specialist
               02117/1999        6         FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    S
                                          Economist,Transport
                                          Specialist,Transport and Trade
                                           FacilitationSpecialist, Private
                                          Sector Specialist, Port
                                           Specialist
               07/01/1999        3         FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    U
                                           Specialist (2)
               11/04/1999        5         FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    S
                                           Economist,Port Specialist,
                                           PrivateSector Specialist,
                                           Transport Specialist
               04/21/2000        4         FinancialAnalyst, Private           S    U
                                           Sector Specialist, Infrastructure
                                           Specialist, Port Specialist
               12/05/2000        2         FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    S
                                           Specialist
               09111/2001         3        FinancialAnalyst, Infrastructure    S    S
                                           Specialist,Social Development
                                           Specialist
               03/31/2002         3        FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    S
                                           Specialist,OperationsAdvisor
               09/13/2002        4         FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    U
                                           Specialist,Transport
                                           Economist,Team Assistant
               03/31/2003         3        FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    U
                                           Economist,ProgramAssistant
ICR            09/07/2003         5        FinancialAnalyst, Transport         S    U
                                           Specialist,Transport
                                           Economist,Social Development
                                           Specialist,Team
Note: Septemb 13, 2002 missio also initial d discussionson preparationfor :R.

                                                   25



Annex B.

Table B1Economic Evaluation of the Sirsiya Terminal Operator ($ million^'^)


                                        Traffic
                                       Diversion
                                       Benefits
                                                                       Net
  Year                   costs        Container      Break-bulk       Benefits

   2000                       10.8                                       -10.8
   2001                                                                       0
   2002                                                                       0
   2003                                                                       0
   2004                      0.21              1.5          0.044         1.33
   2005                      0.36             2.6           0.595         2.79
   2006                      0.38             2.7           0.626         2.90
   2007                      0.39             2.7           0.645         2.99
   2008                      0.40             2.8           0.664         3.08
   2009                      0.41             2.9           0.684         3.17
   2010                      0.43             3.0           0.704         3.27
   2011                      0.45             3.1           0.725         3.42
   2012                      0.47             3.3           0.747         3.57
   2013                      0.49             3.5           0.770         3.74
   2014                      0.52             3.6           0.793         3.91
   2015                      0.54             3.8           0.817        4.09
   2016                      0.57             4.0           0.841        4.28
   2017                      0.60             4.2           0.866        4.47
   2018                      0.63             4.4           0.892        4.68
   2019                      0.66             4.6           0.919        4.89
   2020                      0.69             4.9           0.947         5.12
   2021                      0.73             5.1           0.975         5.36
   2022                      0.76             5.4           1.004         5.61
   2023                      0.80             5.6           1.034         5.87
   2024                      0.84             5.9           1.065         6.14
   2025                      0.88             6.2           1.097         6.43
   2026                      0.93             6.5           1.130         6.72

                                                     ERR                17.4%
                                                     NPV                 11.41




 Note throughout this annex all references to dollars are U S dollars.


   E
   $
   -e
   0
       h
       0
       a
       3E




       o r
        (0




.E
m -
5 g
8"
0

   E
   -e
   0     r-0
       0
       N




B Y 8
   h



GO,
x 8 3

E
V
   0 IC
E   R

     aJ
     e
     s
     I


  -
     a,
     G5
     E




0
M




        \o- r;

                   aai
                    e
                   b




        ;g
        .-L


        E O


d                   ;ci
                   0z
                   0
5
Q)                  (u



                   h




b
0
Q)
$
0



-E..
0
P

z              c


.-LL
g!
m
3


                                               33



Annex C.BorrowerComments


               "Info, MOICS,
               Nepal"            To <Abarbu@worldbank.org>
               <info@moics.gov.
               nP'               cc

               06,25,2007      Subje Re: Draft Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR)
               AM                ct




Dear M r . Barbu,

Please find the attached document regarding the comments on d r a f t
performance Assessment Report.

Thank you,



Yours' Sincerely,



Himal Thapa
Under Secretary
M i n i s t r y o f Industry, Commerce & Supplies
Singhadurbar, Kathmandu
Nepal

.I
c,
m

5
e3




-



0
P
F

8
ews

-




E
EPo
a

EE




-


-
E&  >    3

   n  0




3
3
cg


m

0    0


0
d

0
hl    0
      hl




