E-240
VOL. 2
OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY EXTENSION PROJECT
BURKINA FASO:
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
AFRICA REGION
THE WORLD BANK
June 2000






TABLE OF CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
OUAGADOUCOU WATER SUPPLY EXTENSION PROJECT
BURKINA FASO
PROJECT AND ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED                                I
A.  THE PROJECT                                                    1
B.  ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED                                        I
11.  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION                                              2
111. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MANAGEMENT
A.  TERRESTRIAL                                                   2
B.  AQUATIC                                                       3
C.  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM                               3
D.  HEALTH                                                        3
1.  Schistosomiasis
2.  Onchocerciasis and Trypanosomiasis
3.  Malaria
4.  Other Diseases
5.  Diarrhea
6.  Nutrition
7.  Associated Remedial Measures
IV. SOCIAL IMPACTS: RESETTLEMENT AND ECONOMIC
REHABILITATION                                                    5
A. POPULATION AFFECTED                                           5
1.  Reservoir
2.  Aqueduct (and Transmission Lines) and Pumping Station
B. COMPENSATION LEVELS AND PROCEDURES                            6
1.  Reservoir
Compensation Rates for Land and Homes
Other Compensation Rates
Ensuring Women 's Entitlements
Ensuring Minority Rights
2.  Aqueduct (and Transmission Lines) and Pumping Station
C.  PARTICIPATION                                                  7
D.  RELOCATION                                                     8
1.  Reservoir
2.  Aqueduct (and Transmission Lines) and Pumping Station.



E. ECONOMIC REHABILITATION MEASURES                           9
1.  Reservoir
Programs for Vulnerable Groups
2. Aqueduct (and Transmission Lines) Pumping Station
V.  INSTITUTIONAL COORDINATION AND MONITORING                       11 
ANNEX A:    PGAIE PROJECT TIMETABLE AND BUDGET                      12
ANNEX B:    PROPERTY INVENTORY, ZIGA RESERVOIR AREA                 1 5



1.  PROJECT AND ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED
A.   THE PROJECT. The Ouagadougou Water Supply Extension Project (OWSEP) will alleviate
increasingly severe water shortages in the capital city for the next several decades. The entire project
includes: a dam at Ziga, some 50 kilometers north of the capital, and the associated reservoir, with a
storage capacity of 200 million m3; a water purification plant at the dam site; a I m diameter pipeline from
the plant to the capital, as well as electric transmission lines for the pumping stations; a pumping station
and offices in the outskirts of the city; and upgrading and extension of the urban water distribution
system.
IDA is proposing to finance the supply of water from the reservoir, including the water puriflcation plant.
the transmission mains and pumping stations, the primary distribution lines in the city, and related
matters. The dam and reservoir, however, are financed by the Government of Burkina Faso ((iol31 ) and
other donors. Nonetheless, inasmuch as the project is overall an integrated initiative, Bank policies
require examination of the degree to which all social and environmental safeguards are being carried out
according to Bank standards, regardless of funding source.
This EIA summary therefore reviews the environmental and social consequences, and related remedial
measures, for all project components.'
B.   ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED. The water supply for the city of Ouagadougou now comes
from a combination of four dams (three badly polluted) and various deep wells, which are insufficient for
needs of the current population, not to speak of the future.
Various studies have been undertaken over the last ten years to examine all of the possible alternatives to
alleviate the water problems in Ouagadougou. In 1984, Lahmeyer International examined four major
alternatives: deep wells, an existing dam on the Bagre River, but with a transmission line of 135 km
(production costs per m3 of FCFA 320), a dam on the Mouhoun River (1 56 km away and with a
production costs per m3 of FCFA 185), and a dam on the Nakambe River at Ziga (50 km away and with a
production costs per m3 of FCFA 134). Their studies demonstrated that, technically and economically,
the Ziga Dam on the Nakambe is the best alternative.
Further, various studies have been undertaken of alternative designs of the Ziga dam in order to reduce the
environmental, social and economic impacts. In 1992, USAID examined the project and recommended
an environmental impact study to accord with international standards for Category A projects. The
engineering consortium TRACTEBEL presented the EIA in 1995, confirming the choice of alternatives
and examining the environment and socio-economic consequences that required remedial actions.
Subsequently, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) reviewed the efficacy of
the remedial measures proposed in the various design studies.
This summary is based on extracts from the following rcports: Environmental Impact Study conducted by TRACTl'EBEL: the Government
Plan to Reduce Environmental Impacts (PGAIE); the Report of the Hydrological Studies conducted by BERA-I.ahmeyer International: the
Plan to Manage Health Impacts (PAIS): the Plan to Manage Biophysical Impact (PAIB); the Resettlement and Economic Rehabilitation Plan
(RAP); the Study of Environmental Impacts Downstream of the Ziga Dam; the Priority Program, 1999-2000 of the Agence Francaise de
Dcveloppement; the Financial Program of the African Developmcnt Bank' the Govenmment of Burkina Faso financial program; the UNDI'
Indicative Program for Improving Conditions of Life Downstream; and the integrated water resources management program (GIRE); the
timeline and organizational reports for environmental monitoring (PGAIE).



II. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Public participation has characterized the planning and implementation of OWSEP since the outset. A
series of public meetings were held upon presentation of the EA report. These meetings brought togethe':
representatives of the Ministries of Environment and Water, Health, Social Action and the Family.
Agriculture and Livestock, and Land Administration; representatives of local administration from the
areas concerned; NGO representatives; and representatives of the affected populations.
In addition, the OWSEP has stressed the integral participation of the local population throughout the
development process so that people would benefit from sustainable development rather than sufler as its
victims. Local people participated in various of the technical studies, indeed, the socio-economic surv en
was expressly designed also for information dissemination. Further, project-affected people were
responsible for many of the decisions in the relocation process. (In particular, see Section IV-C, below.)
III. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MANAGEMENT
A.  TERRESTRIAL. Morphologically, the land is relatively flat, though marked with a few hills
and buttes. The soils are often fragile; their agricultural capacity is generally mediocre to nil. Annual
rainfall zone averages between 600 and 900 mm, most of which falls in the three to four months of rainy
season (May to August); the rest of the year is quite dry. The savanna vegetation has trees and shrubs.
though grasslands are today dominant as human intervention has reduced the natural vegetation to a few
relic areas of forest that are themselves greatly degraded. There are no rare species of flora or fauna in the
area today.
The original vegetation throughout the reservoir area has been greatly degraded in the last fifty years. For
example, the forest inventory of 1992 counted only 53 species on 5.8 million has., compared to the 246
species found in 1974. Moreover, large areas have been converted to agricultural land, despite their
unsuitability. It can only be supposed that, in the absence of this project, most of the zone would continue
to degrade because of increasing population pressures on the land.
In this situation, the project will undertake a number of measures to reduce project impacts on the land
and reverse on-going environmental degradation. For example, remedial measures will be instituted
during construction to reduce or eliminate the usual consequences of construction areas and heavy trucks:
construction sites will be planted to reduce surface run-off and erosion; all wastes will be disposed of
properly Areas of ecological interest (e.g., classified forests) will be preserved. And, construction areas
will be restored to their original conditions. Equally importantly, basin-wide ecological initiatives will be
instituted under the economic rehabilitation program (Section IV-E, below) to restore many areas.
One major negative impact of the OWSEP is reduced flooding downstream of the dam that will affect
surface water and water tables there. Without the Ziga dam, the Nakambe River flows only three months
of the year after the dam is constructed, and not at all during the driest years. Therefore, it is planned to
release an environmental flow from the Ziga dam. (The amount to be released is being studied at present;
the dam has the capacity to provide a maximum release of 18 m3/s.) It is estimated that there are,
downstream of the dam and within a one-kilometer band along the river, 8,642 has. of cultivated fields
(sorghum and vegetables) and 947 has. of land in fallow, as well as good pastures. Some 4,142 people



(520 households) live in this area, and could lose almost CFA 100,000,000 in production (fisheries.
vegetable production, agriculture, and livestock). The UNDP is financing a study to assess remedial
actions, such as improved agricultural production (e.g., anti-erosion measure, organic fertilizer), improved
animal pastures and production, feeder roads, social infrastructure (e.g., schools, clinics), and micro-
credit.
B.  AQUATIC. The Nakambe River flows between May and January, but dries up during the
height of the dry season. The average annual flow, calculated over 30 years, is 8.55 m3/s. The total
annual volume of water in the river averages 268 million m3; however, the annual volumes vary widely.
from 1,010 million m3 in the wettest years to 65 million m3 in the driest years. The preparation of an
Integrated River Basin Management Plan for the Burkinabe part of the Nakambe River Basin is Underv\a\
and financed by Danida.
In this situation, the project will undertake a number of measures to protect the reservoir. The reservoir
area will be clear-cut to ensure water quality, which will also facilitate lake fisheries. A protective band is
required around the reservoir to avoid contamination from pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers and the like;
this band will be planted with trees and shrubs. Wastes from the water purification plant will be disposed
of properly in order not to contaminate the river downstream. The resettlement program (below) will
build latrines; and, animals will be banned from the reservoir area.
C.  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM. Given the number of factors that must be
monitored - and the difficulty of predicting which factor or factors may be most important at any point in
time when statistical data are still unreliable - the GoBF has proposed the implementation of a geographic
information system as part of its monitoring program (Section V, below).
D.  HEALTH. The most serious health consequences of the overall project will occur in the
reservoir area. Parasites and infectious diseases are already the major cause of illness and death
throughout the zone. Further, malnutrition among children is common, due to poor diet and lack of
resources. Remedial action will be required to reduce these problems, particularly in the reservoir area.
By contrast, populations along the aqueduct and transmission lines will be relatively little affected by the
project, while urban populations in the capital should benefit from improved water supply. Thus this
summary examines the changes expected in the reservoir area only.
1.   Schistosomiasis. Schistosomiasis is already prevalent in the reservoir area. Almost 20
percent of the children between the ages of 6 and 15 are infected with Schistosoma haematobium, and the
incidence of infection increases with age. By contrast, S. mansoni was detected in only one adult who
had immigrated to the area from another country.
The project will undertake four actions to reduce this problem: I) a massive treatment program with
4      Praziquantel in infected villages, with 2) selective treatment of affected persons in other areas; 3) an
information campaign about transmission, which will also have an emphasis on hygiene education so that
drinking-water wells are not polluted; and 4) epidemiological and malacological studies to track the
incidence of infection.



2.   Onchocerciasis and Trypanosomiasis. Onchocerciasis is uncommon in the project area,
and well below the critical threshold of five percent infection rate. One study of 1,500 people in six
villages found 13 positive cases (i.e., less than 1% rate of infection), all of whom were migrants from
other countries.
A study of trypanosomiasis conducted during the dry season in the area of the river bordering the Wayen
classified forest found a very low incidence of the vector. However, people resident in the area reported a
much higher incidence during the rainy season and in the beginning of the dry season. One study found
only three cases of Trypanosoma theileri among livestock, and the last reported human case of
trypanosomiasis occurred in 1988. Nonetheless, construction of the dam, creation of the reservoir and
reforestation around it could create conditions favorable to this vector.
Although not now a problem, the risk of a resurgence of these diseases will increase with the
environmental modification by the project and the consequent influx of population. The project must.
therefore, implement: 1) an effective monitoring program and 2) be ready to mount an eradication
program, should this become necessary.
3.   Malaria. Malaria is endemic in the project zone. In one study, almost half (43% of
151) of the children under 16 years of age showed malarial symptoms in the dry season. Another study
found an infection rate of almost 30 percent in the entire population.
Creation of a reservoir will make the seasonal problem of malaria a year-round concern. The project will,
therefore: 1) work with health officials to ensure the year-round availability of anti-malarial medicines;
2) undertake health education, with an emphasis on use of impregnated mosquito nets and early treatment:
and 3) clean village peripheries of potential breeding sites.
4.   Other Diseases. One case of a sexually transmitted disease was found in a study of 410
men. The incidence of HIV and AIDS is being studied.
Despite the seemingly low current incidence of STD, HIV and AIDS, infection rates will rise with the
influx of new populations. The project must, therefore: 1) mount a public information and education
campaign; 2) make condoms available in the project zone; and 3) train public health staff in the correct
treatment of these illnesses.
Guinea Worm. Guinea worm was a terrible problem in the area before the initiation of the
National Program to Fight Guinea Worm in 1992. In 1985, the province of Oubritenga, for example.
ranked fourth nationwide, and the Absouya zone was one of the most affected areas, with 205 cases.
There has been a considerable reduction in infection since then: only 715 cases were reported in just 44
villages in 1995, compared with the 3,266 cases reported in 190 villages affected in 1990. The project
must nonetheless include monitoring this disease in its portfolio of actions.
5.   Diarrhea. While the incidence of infant diarrhea in the project zone (4.32
episodes/child/year) is lower than the national rate (6.8 episodes/child /year), it is worrisome because
mothers generally do not treat the condition.



The consequences of untreated diarrhea compel project initiatives in maternal education of proper
nutrition, along with training of mothers and public health staff in the effective treatment of this malady.
6.   Nutrition. Malnutrition is endemic in the project area. Both boys and girls, regardless
of age, are below national standards in weight and height. In one study, two-thirds of the children actually
suffered stunting due to inadequate diet. Night blindness due to the lack of vitamin A is high (5% of the
cases in one study of 5127 individuals). Goiter problems due to the lack of iodine are common (9% or
456 people had a visible goiter problem in one study). And, nutritional anemia due to the lack of iron is
very high (51% for infants under five years of age and 62% for women of child-bearing age).
This situation calls for the tailored program to reduce nutritional deficiencies, as well as the monitoring
program to track success and difficulties, proposed in the project.
7.   Associated Remedial Measures. The public health infrastructure must be improved in
order to implement the necessary remedial programs. Therefore, existing clinics will be upgraded, and
additional centers established where needed, so that people have access to appropriate facilities year-
round, in both the dry and the rainy seasons. The number and level of staff of the public health service,
including not only clinics but also laboratories, will also be improved through training and' supervision.
Preventive medicine will be emphasized to complement curative care. Nutritional specialists will be
hired. And, ambulances will be provided in three centers, as well as 10 motorcycles for public health
staff.
IV. SOCIAL IMPACTS: RESETTLEMENT AND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION
A. POPULATION AFFECTED. OWSEP comprises several distinct, though interrelated, project
activities: the Ziga dam and reservoir; the aqueduct and transmission lines; the raw-water treatment plant
and pumping stations; and, the extension of the urban water supply system in Ouagadougou. The major
impacts of this integrated initiative will occur in the reservoir area. Impacts along the pipeline and
transmission lines should be quite limited in that people will lose only a narrow strip of land and, even in
the extreme cases, may have to move their houses back a few meters. By contrast, the pumping station in
the outskirts of Ouagadougou will entail the removal of a small number of people and businesses, while
upgrading and extending the existing water supply system in the city will involve only temporary
inconvenience, as roads are dug up to lay new lines.
IDA proposes to fund the treatment plant, pumping stations, aqueduct, transmission lines, and
network extension, but not the dam and reservoir. Nonetheless, Bank regulations require that the
activities of the entire project, the reservoir included, be done in conformity with its environment and
social policies and stipulations. The studies in the reservoir area are complete and available, and are
therefore summarized here. The definitive studies in the associated areas - in particular, the pumping
station and offices, which require a relatively small area - cannot be carried out before the project is
approved. Therefore, detailed decisions on the allocation of alternative housing lots for the people who
must move will be made a condition of effectiveness, rather than, as is more usual, a condition for
appraisal.



I    Reservoir. The reservoir requires the complete removal of three villages with 127
extended families (2,100 people). Another 14 villages are affected to a lesser degree in that 359 extended
families (4,034 people) will be required to shift their homes or fields; these cases necessitate relocation or
land reallocation within existing localities. The total affected population (456 households with a
population of 6,134 people) represents less than a quarter of the families and population in the area
directly affected by the project.
2.   Aqueduct (and Transmi.ssion Line.s) and Pumping.Station. The pipeline and electric
transmission lines involve minor land acquisition only; the few structures that may be aflected will be
compensated, and people will move only a short distance away.
In the peri-urban area, the pipeline and pumping station will displace 1 14 families (31 2 people)
and 238 informal-sector workers, all now occupying land without having formal tenure.
B.   COMPENSATION LEVELS AND PROCEDURES.
I.   Reservoir. The reservoir required the acquisition of a number of individual and
collective properties. These include: 2,473 homes, 737 fruit trees, 955 traditional mills and 234
traditional ovens (which are women's property), as well as latrines, grain silos, wells, chicken coops, pig
sties and the like. The communal losses include: pastures, public buildings, tombs and sacred places. (See
Annex B for a detailed listing of assets acquired.)
Compensation Ratesfor Land and Homes. Land has already been replaced by a similar quality
and size plot elsewhere in the area through negotiation with customary land chiefs in the receiving areas.
The "host" areas are in the main villages from which people moved to the affected settlements. nearly all
of which are "daughter" settlements of recent establishment near the banks of the river, which until the
early 1 980s had been, for most of the century, an onchocerciasis-affected zone that was uninhabitable for
health reasons. For the move back, people are to be (and have been already, in many cases) provided in-
kind assistance for the reconstruction of their homes: materiel (e.g., shovels, pick-axes, wheelbarrows
and the like) and financing for brick fabrication, beams, roofing sheets, doors, as well as for hiring day
laborers. Other structures - latrines, bread and meat ovens, animal pens - were replaced in the same
manner as homes. While the standard of housing is not high, the decision not to provide housing to a
high standard was made with the acquiescence of the resettlers after long discussion in the affected and
the neighboring villages. The common decision was that providing high-standard housing out of keeping
with the housing being lost would be a source of great harm to what are good egalitarian relationships
among peers, friends, and relatives in these small villages, and would not be replicable in other projects
that might be done in the area. Instead, temporary work for those affected has provided windfalls to
affected people that are allowing limited local investments that people report as sufficient additional
benefit to offset their disruption.
Other Compensation Rates. Each person also received five seedlings for each fruit tree lost, as well
as the sum of FCFA 20,000 per tree per year, for five years, in order to compensate for the loss of fruit
sales until the seedlings begin bearing.



Tombs were moved by the families concerned, with all the traditional exhumation and reburial
rites observed. The project authority paid a fee of FCFA 10,000 per tomb to defray the costs of these
rituals, which include moving the earth of the tomb to the new site. Similarly, fetish and spirit places
were accorded traditional sacrifices conducted by local religious leaders, again with the payment of
FCFA 10,000 per site to defray expenses.
Ensuring Women 's Entitlements. Women were concerned that they might lose their tenure rights
because traditionally women receive land from their husbands. They might lose their agricultural plots, or
their pasturage areas for small ruminants, or both after relocation if the project failed to take into account
their particular situation..
To address these concerns, the project insisted on the re-establishment of economic productiVe
systems in accord with local traditions. Thus, although the original inventory of affected land was done
by extended household and-all plots were registered in the name of the household head, it was decided to
provide each household with the same number, size and quality of plots as they held previously. Thus. in
accord with local procedure, the household head could allocate the individual plots to family members.
including wives or female dependants, as before. In addition, the project is to support women's work
groups so that they could take the necessary steps to acquire collective parcels for vegetable gardening.
Ensuring Minority Rights. Peul herdsmen guarding animals under loan or contract are to be
relocated in host villages with which they had traditional ties. Transhumant rights of migratory herders
will also be maintained through negotiation with local authorities.
2.   Aqueduct (and Transmission Lines) and Pumping Station. Compensation procedures in
the peri-urban and urban areas are distinct from those in the rural areas. Those who lose their homes will
receive monetary compensation for their old home (market rate minus the value of doors, windows, and
roofing material that can be re-used) and an urban lot in Ougadougou where they can rebuild. The new
lot will be fully titled in the modem legal system, and even with the same house built on it will have a
much higher value than the house taken by the project.
Informal enterprises will receive compensation but not a new lot, if they have a workshop or other
building. The vegetable gardens in this area will be moved to a nearby site with the necessary
infrastructure (e.g., wells, storage shed). In addition, the gardeners will be compensated for the loss of
three harvests, which is the length of time estimated for their re-establishment in the new place.
C. PARTICIPATION.
A guiding principle for all resettlement activities in OWSEP is to respect local desires, customary
authority, and traditional procedures, limiting the project authority and administrative officials to a
facilitating role when necessary. The project authority stands ready to resolve any disputes that might
arise during the relocation process.
The PAPs selected their own sites for relocation in order to take into account their primary
concems, with the particular house sites still to be selected in some cases. Other decision-making
accorded with local procedures in order to avoid conflict between the project authority and customary



chiefs. The project authority and administrative officials, together, sponsored inter-village negotiations,
guided the parties concerned towards alternative solutions to problems that arose during the discussions.
and confirmed the decisions of those discussions. The customary chiefs, land chiefs, and the PAPs have
all been involved in the entire relocation process in order to ensure the maximum level of success in
acquiring replacement land.
In other words, the people most concerned had the initiative and latitude to deal with each step oft
the resettlement process. One result of this approach has been to heighten the people's acceptance of the
proposed arrangements. Another benefit is that the resettlers are assured of their land tenure securit) and
of the legality of the operation by the cooperation between the project authority and administrative
officials. Here legality has a large component of acceptance by local leaders still acting largely under
traditional incentives and ideas. Without that acceptance, "mere" legality under national law would not
be of much value.
Moreover, in view of the probability of at least minor disputes during and after relocation, the
project authority named local mediators who could intervene in the resolution of any concern. These
mediators were supervised by the customary chiefs in the reservoir-affected zone, who in turn were
supported by the administrative officials.
D. RELOCATION.
1.   Reservoir. The decisions on where to relocate were taken by the PAPs themselves, in
consultation with local customary officials and ratified by the project authority and administrative
officers.
Once the relocation areas were identified by the people concerned, the project authority took several
actions to accommodate the increased population density in reception zones that had a limited capacity for
new population and that would be outstripped in the future. The project authorities helped negotiate with
villages for unoccupied lands not under government domain, for about a fifth of the resettlers could be
accommodated in these areas. The project authority also allotted the band around the reservoir between
the centenary and the millennial floods for agricultural production. Further, to reduce future population
pressure, the project authority has initiated a land management program and a classified forest utilization
program.
As for the actual physical transfer, the project authority is to assist people with their moves, as
needed, providing transport for household goods and crops. When the moves are not simply within a
village, the project authority is ensuring that the customary chiefs followed the convoy of villagers in
order to guarantee their privileges in the new sites. In particular cases, such as the Peul herders. resettlers
are to be offered the choice of vehicular transport of the herd or walking the animals to the new site.
Supplementary food aid is to be provided if agricultural production might not be possible
immediately after the move in all instances. The amount of aid provided is to be determined on the basis
of average production times the area to be lost. The aid is to begin before the move and will continue for
two years afterwards.



2.   Aqueduct (and Transmission Lines) and Pumping Station. As noted above (Section IV-
B-1), people are expected to rebuild their homes and move their businesses themselves. The project
authority will provide any transport necessary to move salvageable parts of the former home or business,
as well as household goods and equipment, to the new site. Similarly, the informal businesses are
expected to move without any appreciable loss in income.
E.   ECONOMic REtlABILITATION MEASURES.
I.   Reservoir. The project has put in place an array of restorative programs that aim for
long-term, sustainable development. These include: lake fisheries (information campaigns, vocational
training); vegetable production with well irrigation; veterinary services and pasture managemenit, as v%ell
as stock improvement, for dairying; agricultural assistance; apiculture; and, forestry (e.g., nurseries.
reforestation). To support these activities, the project authority has created a local development fuind.
financed with the proceeds from the reservoir clear-cutting. These funds are loaned, at no interest and
with a two-year grace period, for micro-projects and needed small infrastructure. Importantly, various of
the programs are available to all of the people in the area, not just the resettlers.
In addition, the project authority has provided a number of infrastructural improvements that further both
project aims and local development (see table, below).



Type of Infrastructure                                         Justification
Circum-reservoir Road                                      *   Ensure efficient maintenance of the engineering works
*   Ensure bctter survcillance of activities in reservoir
protective area
lntcr-village fecdcr roads                                *   Improve village accessibility
*   Support development of inter-village communication
and exchange
*   Ensure economic viability of host villages
*   Iacilita.te greater integration of resettled populations
\Water 1ransport (boats)                                  *   F:acilitate transporn  be:t%een  the two  banks of the
reservoir (ten  aluminum   boats  with  a  ten-person
capacity)
Health Infrastructure                                     *   Improve health infrastructure
*   Improve accessibilitv to health facilities during the rainy
season
*   Improve use of health facilities and the quality of care
provided in order to reduce expected morbiditl
*   Include new health needs that may arise
Educational Infrastructure                                *   Replace structures lost to inundation
Primary Schools with three classrooms, dormitory. kitchen  *   Reduce the lack of school buildings
and latrines                                              *   Respond to the strong local demand for schooling
*   Reduce the distance pupils must travel to go to school
Secondary Schools                                         *   Eliminate the absence of secondary schools on the left
bank
*   Increase pupils' access to secondary schools
Grain Storage Facility                                     *   Replaec that in Gondogo lost to inundation
Village Water Supply (motorized wells)                    *   Increased water supply in the dry season
*   Improve the coverage of potable water needs of the
affected population
*   Reduce illness due to use of polluted water
*   Reduce women's work in family water suppiv bv
improving proximity to wells
Pastoral Water Supply (motorized wells)                    *   Assure better coverage of water needs of livestock and
I    eliminate animal access to banks of reservoir
Programs for Vulnerable Groups. Specific programs have been designed for women. These
programs aim to make usual women's activities more remunerative, and take into account women's
aspirations, as well as local resources and potentials. They include both individual vegetable production.
food processing and artesanry (e.g., biscuit making, pottery) and group production (e.g., soap making, oil
pressing, fish smoking, weaving).
Youth were given preference in hiring for general labor, such as clear-cutting for cleaning out of
the reservoir basin, house construction, and the dam and road works. The project authority paid particular



attention to the needs of the elderly, especially the older women, who might need help in, for example,
opening new fields for cultivation.
2.   Aqueduct (and Transmission Lines) and Pumping Station. The informal businesses in
the peri-urban area are expected to move without serious impact on their trade. The group of gardeners
will be provided a new plot, with infrastructure, and will be compensated for their lost production over
three harvests.
No assistance is foreseen in the rural areas where the pipeline crosses their properly lor the simnple
reason that this infrastructure takes only a negligible part of lands that are used only for grazing. andl arc
sparsely vegetated in any case. Moreover, for most of its route the pipeline lies within the right-o1'VWa%
for the extension of the national highway, which has not been respected by the local populations. Any
buildings that must be destroyed will be compensated.
V. INSTITUTIONAL COORDINATION AND MONITORING
A project coordination unit, the Office for the Goverranent Plan to Reduce Environmental Impacts
(Service du Plan Gouvernemental d'Attenuation des Impacts sur l'Environnement [PGAIE]) was
established under the Technical Division of the Ziga Dam Authority (Maitre d'Ouvrage de Ziga). The
office was staffed, at a minimum, by two national professionals, an environmental manager and an agro-
forester. The office is charged with programming, contracting for, and monitoring the different activities
detailed in the PGAIE, but does not undertake any of the work itself. These activities include
environmental monitoring, installing geographic information systems, land acquisition, clear-cutting the
reservoir area, formation of women's groups, livestock improvement, information and education
campaigns, and the like.



ANNEX A:
PGAIE PROJECT TIMETABLE
AND BUDGET (PARTIAL)



PGAIE PLANNING
CATEGORY                                                                                              PERIOD OF EXECUTION
1999                    2000                     2001                    2002                     2003          ,          2004
01IQ2IQ30I 4   l _Q2IQ3IQ4 Ql Q2IQ3I04  QI 02  Q3 Q4 QI  IQ21031Q41Q32104
Plan to Reduce Health Impacts (African Development Bank)
Infrastructure
Equipment
Activities
Plan for Income Restoration (African Development Bank)
Fund from Reservoir Clear-cutting
Plan for Compensation and Rehousing Affected l'opulations (GoBF)
Urban and Peri-urban Zones
Rural Zone Payments
Population Transfer
Priority Program 1999-2000 (Agence Fran;aise de Developpement)
MIS Software Acquisition                                         _
MIS Training
Forest Management Plan
Environmental Baseline Study
APS-APD-DAO-Roads
Seedling Nursery Rehabilitation
Plan for Income Restoration (Agence Frangaise de Developpement)
Dev act econ et reconst cap de prod
Plan for Construction of Rural Infrastructure (Agence Fransaisc dc l)Eveloppement)
PCIR
Plan to Reduce Biophvsical Impacts (Agence Fran;aise de DEveloppement)
PAIB
Monitoring Program (Agence Fran;aise de D6veloppement)
Service PGAIE
Contractor, PAIB-PRR
Technical Assistant and Subcontracts
Project Feasibility Study of Downstream Environmental Impacts (CoopEration Beige)
Study                                                                     -
Plan to Reduce Downstream Environmental Impacts of the Ziga Dam (I'NID-FENII)
Design Mission



GOVERNMENT PLAN FOR THE REDUCTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS, 1999-2000
(AFD Financing)
PRIORITY              COST                                            PERIOD OF EXECUTION
ACTIVITIES
Millions                        1999                                                  2000
(FCFA) Jan  Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan  IFeb  Mar Apr N13a% June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
.GIS Software Acquisition   10                                         MI __4
GIS Training.                7 ____      _____ i.                4
Forestry Management Plan   20                                          __  __~Wr~
Env. Baseline Study        30    _                    _        _                                                          U _E
APS/APD/DAO-Roads          80                                __  __._ _
Seedling Rehabilitation   33,6…-   - =I = = =   =                                                                                      -
Total                    180,60 __ -   -   -                                                   _     _                                 _
The Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) and the African Development Bank have both signed a financial convention
respectively FCFA 3,698,969,424 and FCFA 943,240,663 respectively.



ANNEX B:
PROPERTY INVENTORY
ZIGA RESRVOIR AREA



PROPERTY INVENTORY, ZIGA RESERVOIR AREA
INDIVIDUAL LOSSES
Type of Loss                                      Number             Area
Agricultural Land                                                   1185 ha
Private Residences
Round Houses                                        2473
Rectangular Mud-brick, with thatch roof               92
Rectanglar Mud-brick, with metal sheeting roof      1941
Fruit Trees                                           737
Women's Structures
Traditional Mills                                    955
Foyers dolo                                          234 _
Other Individual Assets
Hangars                                              889
Chicken coops                                        683
Sheep pens in mud brick                              256
Sheep pens, cemented                                  22
Animal pens                                          483
Meat ovens                                             7
Bread ovens                                            2
Latrines (simple)                                     19
Latrines (cemented)                                   10
Granaries (en secco)                                1984
Granaries (in mud brick)                             397                          l
Granaries (cemented)                                  27                          l
Pig sties                                             60                          l
Wells, traditional (temporary)                        72                          l
Wells, traditional (permanent)                        16                          l
Wells, traditional (cemented)                          7                          l
I



COLLECTIVE LOSSES
Type of Loss                Number                        Area
Pasturage
Natural pasture                                        2170 ha
Managed pasture                                        1185 ha
Public Infrastructures
Schools                           2
Teacher lodgings                  4
Wells                             3
Large-diameter wells              5
Cereal bank                       I
Tombs                            592
Sacred Places
Individual fetishes              56
Sacred places or Tenkouga       126
Cult Sites                         1



