Report No. PIC3326
Project Name              Burkina Faso-Ouagadougou Water Supply Project
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Water
Project ID                BFPA306
Borrower                  Government of Burkina Faso
Implementing Agency       ONEA
Contact: Mr. Amadou Lamine Kouate
Directeur General
01BP 170 Ouagadougou 01
tel: 226-34 15 12 / fax: 226-34 15 13
Initial PID prepared      February 23, 1995
This PID prepared         December 12, 1996
Appraisal                 December 1996
Board Presentation        June 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Burkina Faso, a landlocked country
in Western Africa of about 274,000 km2 with nearly nine million
inhabitants is only sparsely endowed with water resources. Rainfall is
irregular and unpredictable, with an annual average ranging from 400 mm
in the north to 1,200 mm in the south. In the urban areas, the National
Water and Sanitation Authority (ONEA), a financially autonomous agency,
cannot expand its operations fast enough to satisfy the rapidly
increasing demand caused by rapid urbanization, mainly in Ouagadougou,
the capital and the largest city, which accounts for more than 50
percent of the urban population.   The population of Greater Ouagadougou,
currently 775,000 inhabitants, is expected to reach 1.5 million
inhabitants in 2010.   In order to promote efficient water resource
management, the Government created a Ministry for Water in 1982, now
merged into a Ministry for Environment and Water, with a Minister
Delegate for Water.
2.   Project Objectives.   The main objective of the project is to
improve access to safe water for the population living mainly in poor
suburbs of Ouagadougou. To achieve this objective, the project will
focus on improving autonomy, accounting, longterm planning and
efficiency of ONEA's operation and maintenance and more generally on
enhancing the management of water resources.
3.   Project description.   The proposed project would include the
following components:
(a) an earth dam on the Nakambe River, at Ziga, with a total
capacity of about 200 million m3 and a pumping station of 3,150
m3/h;
(b) a water treatment plant of 3,150m3/h and a pumping station of
3,000m3/h, located about two km from the dam;



(c) a transmission main, 1000mm diameter, between the dam and the
treatment plant (2,430m), the treatment plant and the Boudtenga
Reservoir (17,310m), the Boudtenga Reservoir and the city of
Ouagadougou (23,800m), and a reservoir at Boudtenga (5,400 m3);
(d) a primary distribution network, including pumping stations and
reservoirs;
(e) secondary and tertiary networks, including house connections
and the provision of water meters (16,000);
(f) a development plan for the Ziga-Ziniare area around the newly
created reservoir, including the resettlement of 2,500 persons; and
(g) the strengthening of ONEA and the Ministry of Water through the
provision of technical assistance, equipment and training and
introduction of private sector participation in the sector.
4.   Project Financing.   Project preparation had confirmed that a strong
mobilization of the donor community was needed to make external
financing available. A donors meeting was held in Ouagadougou, on May
20-22, 1996, and many commitments were obtained from the donor
community, representing a total of US$ 203.7 million. The main
cofinanciers are: IDA, CFD, EDF, KfW, BEI, Koweit Fund, IDB, Government
and ONEA.
5.   Project Implementation.   The water supply strategy is dictated both
by the need to serve a more important part of the urban poor and of the
rural population. To assure successful implementation, the Government
has embarked on a program to strengthen the management of the sector.
For the urban areas, ONEA has proven to be a fairly well managed water
utility. A performance contract (Contrat Plan) between the Government
and ONEA was signed on December 22, 1993. Up to now, the performance
criteria of the contract have largely been met by the Government and
ONEA. In particular, a program of substantial tariff increases (between
30 percent and 156 percent in three years) and a staff reduction from
670 to 580 persons have been implemented. As of now, operating and
maintenance costs are being covered. On July 22, 1985, ONEA was created
as an "Etablissement Public e caractjre Industriel et Commercial"
(EPIC). On November 2, 1994, ONEA became a State Company (Societe
d'Etat), in order to give it more autonomy. Legal documents have been
issued since then to legally enact this new status: statute and
composition of the Board and the transition balance sheet is being
finalized. The Ministry of Water and Environment will be in charge of
overall coordination and monitoring of project implementation. In order
to avoid a heavy administrative structure and to ensure the
sustainability of the transfer of know-how, the project will be directly
implemented by ONEA, with the help of technical assistance. A small
coordinating and monitoring unit has been set up at the Ministry of
Water to ensure the coordination between sectoral ministries. After
implementation, the whole system (including the dam) will be operated by
ONEA.
6.   Project Sustainability.   The ongoing Engineering Credit supports
part of the actions required for the strengthening of ONEA's management
- 2 -



capabilities. The project would help the government follow-up with the
reorganization of the water sector, set up a new river basin management
system and develop sound procedures. This should provide the central
government agencies, as well as ONEA, with better management
capabilities, financial accountability and resource allocation. Cost
recovery would also be developed for the sector, including adjustment of
the tariffs for water and sanitation and update of collecting methods.
7.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement.    The Association
approved, on June 22, 1993, an Engineering Credit (Cr.19-BUR) of US$ 4.
million for the preparation of engineering designs and environmental
assessment, as well as bidding documents, for the proposed Ouagadougou
Water Supply Project. This Engineering Credit is IDA's first
involvement in Burkina Faso's water sector. The Caisse Frangaise de
Developpement cofinanced a part of these studies (treatment plant and
water distribution system), which have been completed in March 1996.
This Engineering Credit also financed technical assistance to ONEA, in
preparation of the future project. Studies under the project have shown
that issues related to the construction of the proposed dam, including
the resettlement and environmental aspects, will be adequately
addressed.
8.   Poverty Category.   The proposed project is a poverty-focused
intervention, aimed at improving accessibility of safe drinking water to
poor peri-urban areas. A specific mechanism for targeting the poor will
be set up (social tariff).
9.   Environmental Aspects.   The project is rated A.  An analysis of the
environment and the potential impact of the project was carried out as
part of the project preparation. Specific constraints in terms of
biophysical impact were identified. All recommendations made in the EA
would be addressed by the project and included in the specifications,
and potentially negative consequences are being addressed in project-
detailed engineering. A specific mitigation plan, including the
resettlement of about 2,500 persons is being finalized by the
Government. Thanks to an iterative process between the EA and the
technical studies, the number of persons to be relocated has been
reduced from 5,000 (as estimated in 1993) to about 2,500 and the
resettlement program will be part of a development plan for the area.
Precautionary measures are being implemented to prevent the arrival of
new comers.
10. Participatory Approach. All environment and resettlement issues
are currently handled by the Government using a participatory approach.
The governmental mitigation plan will be finalized also through a
participatory process involving public meetings and local and
international NGOs. Stakeholder participation will be developed during
project implementation and will help manage the use of water in the
Nakambe River basin. Involvement of customers through participatory
methods will also be sought to ease project implementation and sector
management.
11. Program Objective Categories. Safe drinking water is one of the
most important human basic needs and is indispensable for sustaining and
enhancing the quality of life, especially in Sahelian countries.
-3 -



Currently, due to the lack of water, only 26 percent of the ouagalais
have access to safe drinking tapwater. The project would ensure
accessibility to clean water in poor peri-urban areas, whose numbers are
expected to grow very rapidly, as well as those in the dam site. It
will allow affordability through a graduated tariff and low connection
costs.
12. Project Benefits. The economic rate of return of the water supply
project was estimated at 8 percent, without consumer surplus and with
current tariffs. In determining the economic rate of return financial
costs were adjusted by eliminating taxes and duties and transfer
payments. The exchange rate was assumed to be in equilibrium as a result
of the 1994 devaluation. Incremental revenues from the sale of water
were taken as a proxy for direct use benefits. In addition to the
quantified benefits included in the economic analysis, a number of non
quantifiable ones, if included would further increase the economic rate
of return. These include the income effect of lower water prices.
Finally, although some of direct benefits to the households members are
most likely taken into account in the price paid for water services, the
indirect benefits accruing to the other members of the community are
not, and thus represent additional benefits.
13. Risks. The greatest potential risk would be the insufficient
capacity of ONEA to operate and maintain the expanded water system over
time. This issue will be considered carefully during the appraisal
mission. Other potential risks are: (a) the lack of support for an
effective management of the water sector at the national level; (b) the
inability of the ONEA to carry out highly specialized studies and
supervision tasks and improve its management; and (c) the benefiting
population would not have the capacity to pay for water connections
which would deteriorate ONEA's financial situation. These risks are
addressed by: (a) a built-in institutional component including support
to the sectoral policy implementation; (b) the strengthening of the
technical departments of ONEA within the ongoing Engineering Credit and
the enforcement of the proposal made by the Government to transform ONEA
into a Societe d'Etat; and (c) a policy of low cost house connections
with payment facilities.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 20, 1996.
- 4 -



