Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21454-BUR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55 MILLION EQUIVALENT
(US$70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR THE
OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
February 21, 2001
Water and Urban 2
CD 15
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFAF
1 CFAF = US$0.00 154
US$1.0 = CFAF 650
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABEDAArab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
AFD            Agence Fran;aise de Developpement
(French Development Agency)
AIDB           African Development Bank
BF             Burkina Faso
BIMP           Bio-Physical Impacts Mitigation Plan
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF           CFA Franc
DANIDA         Danish Intermational Development Assistance
DGE            Direction Gen&rale de l'Environnement
(Directorate General of Environment)
DGFP           Direction Generale des Forets et des Peches
(Directorate General of Forestry and Fishing)
DGH            Direction Generale de l'Hydraulique
(Directorate General of Hydraulics)
DSRP           Dam Safety Review Panel
EA             Environmental Assessment
EIB            European Investment Bank
EPIC           Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial
(Industrial and Comnmercial Public Office)
ERR            Economnic Rate of Return
EU             European Union
FEER           Fonds de I'Eau et de l'Equipement Rural
(Fund for Water and Rural Equipment)
FIRR           Financial Internal Rate of Return
GIS            Geographical Information System
GEMP           Governmental Environmental Management Plan
GRCEA          Water and Sanitation Regional Group
GTZ            German Technical Assistance Agency
ICB            Internal Competitive Bidding
IDA            Inrernational Development Association
llJCN          International Union for Conservation of Nature
IsDB           Islamic Development Bank
KFAED Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW            Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau
LCF            Local Counterpart Fund
MEE            Ministere de l'Environnement et de l'Eau
(Ministry of Environment and Water)
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia Obeng/Praful Patel
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Eustache Ouayoro



MIHiU          Ministere des Infrastructures, de I 'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
(Ministry of Infrastructure, Housing and Urbanism)
MOZ-ONEA   Maitrise d'Ouvrage de Ziga
(Ziga Project Unit within ONEA)
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
NPV            Net Present Value
OIR            Operating Investment Resource
ONBAH          Office National des Barrages et des Amenagements Hydro-agricoles
(National Dam and Irrigation Authority)
ONEA           Officie National de l'Eau et de lAssainissement
(National Office for Water and Sanitation)
ONPF           Office National des Puits et Forages
(National Authority of Wells and Boreholes)
OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PAP            Project Affected People
PMR            Project Management Report
PSP            Private Sector Participation
RDP            Resettlement and Development Plan
SE             Socite d'Etat
(State Enterprise)
SC             Service Contract Operator
SSPO           Strategic Sanitation Plan of Ouagadougou
SONABEL       Societe Nationale Burkinabe d'E. lectricite
(National Electric Company)
SYSCOA         Systeme Comptable West Africain
(West African Monetary Accounting System)
TOR            Terms of Reference
UEP            Urban Enviromnent Project
UNDP           United Nations Development Project
WADB           West African Development Bank
MWRM           Water Resources Management






BURKINA FASO
OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                         3
2. Key performance indicators                                                            3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                    7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        10
3. Benefits and target population                                                       10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies           13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                             13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                     14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                          14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                             15
2. Financial                                                                            16
3. Technical                                                                            16
4. Institutional                                                                        17
5. Environmental                                                                       17
6. Social                                                                               19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      21
2. Critical risks                                                                      21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      23



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summamy                                                          25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  35
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities                          46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     57
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           62
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy                                                        64
Annex 12: Institutional Assessment                                                      79
Annex 13: Governmental Environmental and Social Management Plan (PGAIE)                  85
MAP(S)
IBRD 28673



BURKINA FASO
OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTU2
Date: February 21, 2001                            Team Leader: Eustache Ouayoro
Country Manager/Director: Hasan Tuluy              Sector Manager/Director: Letitia Obeng
Project ID: P000306                                Sector(s): WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[I  Loan     [X] Credit    [ Grant       [1 Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 70.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5                                     Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:     Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                         5.36            0.00          5.36
IDA                                                             21.90           48.10         70.00
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                         2.00            4.67          6.67
ARAB BANK FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN AFRICA                     3.23            5.21          8.44
EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (EDF)                                  6.69           16.49         23.18
EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK                                         6.71           14.00         20.71
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                                8.42           19.41         27.83
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK                                         2.68            4.16          6.85
KUWAIT FUND FOR ARAB ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                        2.93            6.83          9.76
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                   5.49           12.81          18.30
OPEC FUND                                                        2.78            4.16          6.95
WEST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                    0.55            1.28           1.83
Total:                                                          68.75          137.13        205.88
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
Responsible agency: ONEA
Address: B.P. 170, Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Contact Person: Mr. Mamadou Lamine Kouate, Director General
Tel: (226) 34.34.59.60               Fax: (226) 34.33.97                Email: onea@fasonet.bf
Other Agency(ies):
ONEAlMinistry of Environment and Water
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2002      2003        2004   .  2005       -2006       2007
Annual    3.50        14.00      14.00      17.50      17.50       3.50       0.00



Cumulative    3.50  |   17.50 |   31.50 |   49.00 |   66.50 |   70.00 |   70.00 |
Project implementation period: 08/31/2001-30/06/2007; expected effectiveness date: August 31,2001; expected
closing date: December 31, 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OC SA FA FR. F -W  MM1
- 2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex l)
The main objective of the proposed project is to increase access to adequate and reliable potable
water in Ouagadougou through expansion of distribution and tertiary water networks and improvement of
urban water sub-sector management. More specifically, the project seeks to:
(a) increase water supply reliability by developing new storage capacity;
(b) increase coverage, by extending secondary and tertiary water distribution networks and by
providing connections to low-income households; and
(c) promote efficiency, by strengthening the National Office for Water and Sanitation's (ONEA's)
capacity while using a Service Contract with an international water operator to manage ONEA's
commercial, financial and accounting operations.
The project, financed by IDA, is part of a larger program involving 11 other donors aimed at (i)
increasing production capacity with a new water treatment plant; (ii) increasing water service reliability
and coverage by constructing primary, secondary and tertiary networks, control room, storage facilities and
connections; (iii) implementing an environmental management plan; and (iv) developing technical
assistance and capacity building programs for ONEA. A dam has been built under the program and its
reservoir of 200 Mm3 will provide water to the treatment plant and to Ouagadougou.
The IDA-financed project will support (a) infrastructure with (i) construction of distribution and
tertiary networks and installation of connections and standposts; (ii) construction of the Boudtenga storage
facility and transmission main; (b) technical assistance, with supervision of all infrastructure works
financed by IDA and other donors under the Ouagadougou Water Supply Program except the dam; (c)
capacity building, with (i) technical, commercial, administrative and financial management of water utilities
training; (ii) strengthening ONEA's commercial, accounting and financial operations (through a service
contract by an international private operator); and (iii) providing operating investment resources, which
will be used by the international private operator to improve ONEA's commercial and financial operations.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal indicators selected for measuring and monitoring progress towards the development
objectives are in Annex 1. The main indicators to measure progress and impact are:
Reliability of water services;
Population connected to the system;
Collection rate from private consumers;
Average collection days on private consumers;
Productivity of commercial staff, and
Timely certified accounts and financial statements.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
- 3-



Document number: 21285            Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/30/2000
The project is coherent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which was discussed by the
Board on November 30, 2000. The thrust of the Bank's assistance strategy is to support Burkina Faso in
implementing its Poverty Reduction Strategy. The CAS focuses on areas critical to the poor and on
increasing their access to primary health care, basic education and potable water. Water provision is a key
element of the Government Poverty Reduction Strategy. To support the CAS objectives, the project would
(a) increase access to water services to low-income households in Ouagadougou by expanding distribution
and tertiary networks and providing connections and standposts; and (b) promote efficiency in urban water
supply operations by improving ONEA's commercial and financial performance.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Water resources management
Burkina Faso is characterized by a wide variation in rainfall, both annually and spatially. The
country extends over three climatic zones: the Sahel, in the north with an average annual rainfall of less
than 600mnm; the dry savanna region in the middle, where Ouagadougou is located, with an average annual
rainfall between 600 and 900mm; and the humid savanna, with an average annual rainfall of over 900mm.
Since 1976, rainfall has been 10 to 20 percent lower than average, resulting in the lowering of the water
table by about 0.5m per year. Due to geological conditions, groundwater is unevenly distributed and can
only be extracted from weathered areas above the bedrock and in fractured zones by expensive boreholes
with limited yields of about 10m3/day.
Surface water is also scarce and the only perennial river is Mouhoun. In this environment, building
dams has been the most common way of storing water for dry seasons, even though evaporation can reach
2,000mm/year. Most of the dams have been constructed on an adhoc basis, with little consideration for
overall management of river basins. The consequence is an increase in conflicting water uses and little
protection to the rights of all riparians. The situation is more acute in the Nakambe River, where
Ouagadougou's water will be sourced and where more than 450 dams (of different sizes) are already in
operation. In addition, the Republic of Ghana shares the Nakambe River (White Volta) with Burkina Faso.
An action plan for coordinating the use of Nakamb6's water resources at the country level and with Ghana
has been prepared.
Rural water supply
About 36,000 water points (large wells and mostly boreholes) have either been dug or drilled in
the country. They are theoretically able to supply water to 92 percent of the rural population on an average
of 20 liters per capita per day. However, coverage is uneven among regions. In addition, at least 20
percent of water points are not functioning due to the difficulty in organizing viable spare parts distribution
of handpumps.
-4 -



Urban water supplv
Inadequacy of water supply. ONEA cannot expand its production capacity and operations to
satisfy the increasing demand caused by Ouagadougou's rapid growth. The population has more than
doubled during the past 15 years, from 436,000 in 1985 to 980,000 in 2000. The current average annual
growth rate, estimated at 4.6 percent, is not expected to decrease for the next 10 years. In Ouagadougou,
60 percent of the service areas experience severe water shortages during the three hottest months of the
year. Ouagadougou, the largest ONEA operation, has a total water resource availability of 15 Mm3
(mostly from surface water) that can decline to 1 OMm3 during the dry years. This represents an average of
40,800 m3/day, which is low for a city of this size. In addition, an 80 percent increase of water sales is
expected in 2005 (from the actual 12.4 Mm3); the requirements in 2010 are estimated to double the present
demand.
Low coverage and low level of water services. The connection rate in Ouagadougou is 30
percent. This is less than half of the rates in other capital cities in Sub-Sahara Africa. Connection to the
network has been hampered by the limited length of the distribution network, the rapid development of the
city and the high cost for connections, which is 1.25 times the GNP per capita. Standposts are the main
sources of water, mostly for peri-urban dwellers, and provide water to about 70 percent of poor
households. Water sales through standposts represent 36.3 percent of the total water sold in the city.
Approximately 80 percent of the water delivered at standposts is sold to private vendors, who then resell
the water to households through a door-to-door delivery arrangement and at five to twelve times the tariff
of the first tranche paid by connected households.
Operational capacity of ONEA. ONEA is managing 36 main centers and five small operations
supplied by autonomous water facilities. ONEA has 50,400 customers out of which 29,000 are located in
Ouagadougou. Staff numbers have been reduced from 610 in 1993 to 535 in 2000, but staff productivity of
10 staff per 1,000 connections is low compared to other utilities operating in the region. While ONEA can
now manage the technical operations of its present system, this is not the case in the areas of finance and
accounting. Collection rates from private and govermment consumers (four months after the end of the year)
are approximately 86 and 65 percent, respectively. Accounts receivable from private and government
consumers are 162 and 255 days, respectively. Until 1998, ONEA's auditors were unable to certify its
accounts. Persistent problems in reconciling accounts, together with the lack of efficient commercial and
financial management systems, make improvement of ONEA's financial, accounting and commercial
functions a high priority task.
Cost recovery and tariff. Revenues from water sales were, in the past, insufficient to cover all
operating charges. Based on 1998 data, water is sold below cost and production and distribution costs are
approximately 400 CFAF/m3, while the average tariff is 390 CFAF/m3. Apart from Ouagadougou and
Bobo Dioulasso, which are ONEA's largest operations, most secondary centers are structurally unable to
recover their costs. The tariff structure is progressive and the highest tariff block is twice the average tariff.
The impact of this structure is that low volume consumers contribute larger sums to the revenue base.
Standpipe users, for example, consume 36.3 percent and contribute 16.4 percent to revenue, whereas
industry and commerce consume 9.5 percent and contribute 19 percent to revenue.
Sanitation
Before 1990, ONEA concentrated on delivering potable water and fulfilled only a very limited role
in providing sanitation services. The situation changed in 1994 when the Government adopted a Strategic
Sanitation Plan aimed at developing sanitation services for Ouagadougou over the next 20 years.
Government strategy. The Government's strategy is the following:
-5 -



Water resources
The Government is in the process of setting up an integrated water resource management system
using a river basin management approach, with Danish International Development Assistance (DANIDA)
support, in order to optimize the use of the water resources of the Nakamb6 River, and develop early flood
warning and management tools to minimize adverse downstream impacts. This approach is being
implemented under the Nakamb6 River Pilot Project. In this regard, both countries (Burkina Faso and
Ghana) are about to establish an information exchange mechanism, through a joint technical Committee
(DGH in Burkina Faso and the Volta River Authority in Ghana), to address Nakambe River issues. As
required by OP 7.50, Burkina Faso notified Ghana, on November 30, 1995, of the proposed project and its
impacts on the Nakambe River. Following consultations between the two countries, the Government of
Ghana issued an official no-objection statement in support of the project (SCR.BC/BF Vol.7, October 18,
1996). The Government has been very active to developing partnership by participating in the Regional
West African Conferences on Water Resources that took place in March 1998 and February 2000.
Government representatives also attended the World Water Conference in Paris (France) in 1998 and the
World Water Forum in The Hagues (Netherlands) in 2000.
Rural water supplY
The Governement has adopted reforms in the rural water sub-sector by increasing private sector
participation in maintaining and managing rural water systems. In rural areas (with village population less
than 2,000), the Govermnent's policy has been to encourage community participation and access to water
supply, mainly through grants with donor's support. The Government's focus is on rehabilitating existing
facilities, and particularly, boreholes equipped with handpumps. Villages are responsible for operation
and maintenance, and all projects include public information and repair training of technicians for
handpumps.
Urban water supply
The Government issued a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) in 1998, which stated provision of drinking
water as one of its main objectives. The Government now aims to provide potable water facilities as
quickly as possible to all urban settlements and, at the same time, reduce financial dependency of the water
sector on Government subsidies. The revised LSP dated January 11, 2001 recognized the social and
economic nature of water and considered achieving financial equilibrium by 2006 as one of the primary
objectives of the urban water sub-sector.
The strategy is to strengthen ONEA (by granting it more autonomy) so that it can manage the
sub-sector efficiently, assure coordination of foreign aid, and achieve financial equilibrium through the use
of an approriate tariff policy. The Government considers that, because of the strategic nature of water as an
essential natural resource for this Sahelian country and the need to finance a large part of this sub-sector
out of public resources, ONEA should remain 100 percent publicly owned. The Government also gave
more autonomy to the water utility by transforming ONEA from a quasi public agency
(Etablissement Public ai Caractere Industriel ou Commercial or EPIC) to a limited liability company (
Societe d'Etat), with legal autonomy, but still wholly owned by the State (Decree No. 94-391 of November
2, 1994). The Government's approach is to achieve improvement of ONEA's operations by negotiating and
signing Performance Agreements with the water utility in addition to using long-term technical assistance.
In that respect, two three-year performance contracts were signed, the first in 1994 and the second in 1997.
A third performance contract will be signed in 200 1.
Much remains to be done by the Government as the operation and management of the sub-sector
will become more complex. The Bank considers that Government has not come up with a viable solution
- 6 -



due to its long-standing opposition to private sector participation (PSP) in managing the urban water
supply sub-sector. This opposition to some form of PSP has since been modified, as exemplified by the
selection of an international water company coupled with an international auditing firn to run ONEA's
commercial, accounting and financial operations. Difficulty in reaching a consensus on the institutional
management of the sub-sector and on PSP and persistent weaknesses shown by ONEA in cost recovery and
financial management are considered as the main reasons for the long project preparation period.
Sanitation
The strategic sanitation plan, adopted by the Government in 1994, promotes proper technologies in
Ouagadougou; supports the development of small entrepreneurs for constructing latrines and pit emptying;
develops school sanitation; sensitizes the population to the use of recommended technologies; and includes
sewerage and a wastewater stabilization pond for collecting and treating wastewater from the main
polluters of the commercial and industrial areas of the city. Detailed technical studies of the sewerage,
financed by the French Development Agency (AFD), have been completed and works are likely to start in
2001, under parallel AFD and IDA funding (UEP, Cr. 2728-BUR, effective May 30, 1996). ONEA has
completed the construction of all primary grade school sanitation facilities, and more than 20,000 on-site
sanitation facilities have been built by the population.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Increasing reliability of water supply
With the support of other donors, production capacity will be increased to overcome water
shortages in Ouagadougou. Limited production and storage capacity have been the cause of intermittent
water services in Ouagadougou. The project will finance increased storage capacity in the network in
order to improve water service reliability. Use of donor financing was considered as the most appropriate
vehicle in coping with the large funding requirement in a sub-sector that is financially weak.
Increasing access and coverage
Ouagadougou has one of the lowest cormection rates to a water network in the region. The project
will increase coverage by facilitating connections to the network while substantially reducing connection
cost. The project will also finance expansion of the distribution and tertiary networks to new housing
developments and peri-urban areas. A strategic shift in the conmection policy is to reduce the connection
price, which was a major impediment for low-income households connecting to the tertiary networks.
Increased access will also be supported by the installation of public standpipes that will continue to be
privately managed.
Improving commercial operations andfinancial management
Increasing the number of customers to be served requires considerable strengthening of the utility.
The project will finance the hiring of a competent, international water operator and an accounting firm
(under a Service Contract) to manage ONEA's commercial and financial operations, reduce accounts
receivable and prepare timely accounts according to international standards.
Moving towards sectorfinancial equilibrium
Financial equilibrium means the capacity of the water sector to meet its financial obligations,
expressed in terms of flows of funds as they become due, including on-schedule payment of commercial
- 7-



debts (settlements with suppliers) and financial debts (reimbursement of principal and payment of interest
charges on government subloans from IDA credit, donors' credits, direct loans from donors or commercial
banks, and payment of taxes). The time horizon should be reasonably short (no more than five or six
years), while at the same time long enough to minimize the annual tariff adjustments necessary to reach
financial equilibrium.
The project will support the reaching of financial equilibrium of the sub-sector while keeping
annual water tariff increases as low as possible by: (a) reducing operating costs in the sub-sector through
increased efficiency; (b) increasing financial management capacity; (c) developing an appropriate system to
ensure timely payment of water bills by the Government and quasi-government entities; and (d) establishing
policies and procedures to adjust the average water tariff at the beginning of any given year in order to
reach sector financial equilibrium by December 31, 2006. A financial model has been developed and will be
used to monitor progress towards this objective.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project, financed by IDA, is part of a program to supply large quantities of water to
Ouagadougou and improve ONEA's managerial capacity. The overall program is financed by 12 donors,
including IDA, and has the following components:
(0)    A resettlement and mitigation plan (AFD-AfDB-GovernmentlONEA);
(1)    An earth dam (Ziga dam) of 3,154 m at a maximum height of 18.80 m and a 20 km access
road. The reservoir will have a capacity of 200Mm3 and a raw water pumping station
(SPI) of 3,150 m3 per hour (ABEDA-ISDB-OPEC-KFAED);
(2)    A delivery system composed of a transmission main, 1,000 mm diameter, made of ductile
iron of 17 km force main to the Boudtenga storage facility, construction of the Boudtenga
Reservoir (5,400 m3), followed by a 1,000 mm gravity pipe of 24 km to the SP3 pumping
station (IDA-Government/ONEA);
(3)    A treatment plant and pumping station: force main, 1,000 mm, of 2,400 m to transport raw
water to the treatment plant made of two modules of 1,500 m3 per hour for the first
tranche, including the following phases: prechlonrnation, sedimentation, filtration, and
chlorination, equipment of the SPI pumping plant and treated water pumping station (SP2)
equipped with five pumps of 750 m3 per hour and two storage tanks of 3,000 m3 (AFD);
(4)    A primary distribution system of 50 km and composed of three networks: North, Central
and South (IsDB-EIB-WADB);
(5)    A storage facility and pumping station (SP3), at the entry of the city, providing water to
the primary network of the distribution system, 8 water towers, 10 ground-level tanks, 12
lift stations and remote control room (EIB-UE);
(6)    A secondary distribution network of about 210 kin, tertiary networks and installation of
61,000 connections and 400 standposts (IDA-Govemment/ONEA);
- 8 -



(7)    Connection materials (AfDB);
(8)    A 33 KV power supply line of 31 km from Ziniare to the Ziga dam (WADB); and
(9)    An international water operator (in a joint venture with an auditing firm) to run ONEA's
commercial operations and carry out financial management, provision of equipment and
services under an Operating Investment Resource (OIR) to be used by the intemational
water  operator,  supervision  of  works,  technical  assistance  and  training
(IDA-Government/ONEA-AFD).
The IDA project includes: (a) infrastructure with: (i) construction of the Boudtenga storage facility
and transmission main (from the water treatment plant to the Boudtenga storage facility and from
Boudtenga to Ouagadougou); (ii) construction of distribution and tertiary networks and installation of
connections and standposts; (b) technical assistance, through supervision of all infrastructure works of the
program, except the supervision of the Ziga dam construction (already commissioned); (c) capacity
building and institutional strengthening of ONEA with: (i) capacity building in technical, commercial,
administrative and financial management of water utilities; (ii) strengthening ONEA's commercial,
accounting and financial operations through a service contract performed by an international water
operator and an accounting firm; and (iii) providing operating investment resources, which will be used by
the international water operator to improve ONEA's commercial and financial operations.
The table below describes the overall program, including the IDA project.
Resettlement and Mitigation Plan                      11.55       5.6      0.00       0.0
Dam                                                   27.64      13.4      0.00       0.0
Boudtenga storage facility/Delivery  Urban Water      26.83      13.0      7.37       10.5
system/Transmission main           Supply
Treatment Plant                                       20.51      10.0      0.00       0.0
Primary Network                                       20.77      10.1      0.00       0.0
Reservoir & pumping station                           24.55      11.9      0.00       0.0
Secondary and tertiary networks   Urban Water         47.06      22.9     44.68      63.8
Supply
Domestic connections equipment                         1.62       0.8      0.00       0.0
Power supply line                                      2.24       1.1      0.00       0.0
Technical assistance              Institutional       19.40       9.4     14.24      20.3
Development
PPF refinancing                                        0.40       0.2      0.40       0.6
Unallocated                                            3.31       1.6      3.31        4.7
Total Project Costs                 205.88     100.0     70.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                  205.88      100.0     70.00     100.0
-9-



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Among the reforms taking place in the urban water sub-sector, the Government is focusing on (i) a
social connection policy, aimed at easing access to water distribution and tertiary networks to low-income
households; (ii) a new approach to strengthen ONEA after many years of traditional technical assistance;
and (iii) achieving financial equilibrium by December 31, 2006. The project will support (i) a substantial
reduction of the connection price and funding of 45,000 new connections; (ii) a transparent selection of an
international water operator, coupled with a reputable auditing firm to manage ONEA's commercial,
accounting and financial operations; and (iii) an appropriate tariff policy, aimed at reaching financial
equilibrium.
3. Benefits and target population:
A national survey, conducted in 1998, showed the poverty line to be around US$103 per year per
adult. There was a 5 percent increase in urban poverty, between 1994 and 1998, and 16 percent of the
urban population is considered poor according to the survey. Unplanned development along the outskirts of
Ouagadougou housed most of the poor and these areas lack appropriate water services. According to a
recent study, 70 percent of the poor households in Ouagadougou get their water from public standposts or
from water vendors. The same study reveals that water vendors distribute 80 percent of the water sold at
standposts to household premises. The project will address this situation by (a) extending the network; (b)
easing access to connections by reducing the price; and (c) increasing the number of public standposts.
Overall, the project will also benefit the 1.4 million inhabitants of Ouagadougou by 2007, by increasing
water supply reliability, which will in turn, reduce risks of water contamination.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Donor coordination is paramount to the success of the project, considering the involvement of 12
donors (including IDA) in the overall program. In the past, the sub-sector has suffered from conflicting
approaches developed by donors, even when few of them were active, and the relatively ineffective
coordinating role played by the Government. This has resulted in delays in processing the IDA-supported
project and the program. The role of the Ministry of Environment and Water (MEE), which will have
oversight responsibility, will be crucial in coordinating donor activities. In addition, the Ministry of Finance
will play a critical role in financial coordination, limiting previous drawbacks and ensuring smooth
implementation of both the project and the program.
ONEA is the executing agency of the project, which will last six years. ONEA will be directly
responsible for capacity building and institutional strengthening activities financed by IDA. A Project Unit,
MOZ-ONEA (within ONEA), will be responsible for implementing infrastructure activities. MOZ-ONEA
will carry out procurement functions by following and updating the procurement plan, preparing
bid/proposal packages and evaluation reports. MOZ-ONEA is staffed with a technical director, a financial
and administrative director, two engineers, an accountant and an administrative assistant. A team of
expatriate experts is assisting MOZ-ONEA in discharging its functions. MOZ-ONEA's core technical staff
are experienced and have participated, since 1994, in the preparation of detailed technical studies of the
project, under funding of the completed Water Engineering Credit (CR 2519), closed March 31, 1998.
To strengthen ONEA, an international water operator, working under a 5-year performance-based
service contract, to be signed with ONEA, will manage ONEA's comnmercial and financial operations. The
operator will be responsible for consumer registration, connection policy and installation, consumption
measurement, billing, collection and marketing. The operator will also be in charge of sector financial
planning, maintaining cash liquidity, updating and implementing accounting procedures, setting up a cost
- 10 -



accounting system with adequate internal controls, and developing a budget management information
system. Detailed responsibilities and performance to be achieved by the operator are specified in the
service contract. The performance of the service contractor will be reviewed, twice a year, by an
independent technical auditor financed by IDA.
The rest of the program will be financed under parallel funding by AFD, KfW, AfDB, WADB,
EU, EIB, OPEC, ABEDA, IsDB, and KFAED. MOZ-ONEA will ensure coordination of construction
activities. A consulting firm, already selected through Bank procurement procedures, will supervise
construction works under the project and the program. The same firm has completed the supervision of the
Ziga dam construction (financed by OPEC, ABEDA, IsDB and KFAED funds). Having one firm supervise
all physical components will improve coordination among donors and give IDA an oversight position, and
thus ensure that the project and the program are carried out effectively and efficiently.
Supervision and monitoring. The project will require considerable supervision, since it is one of
the largest IDA credits in the country. The project includes a service contract with an international water
operator (a new institutional arrangement to Burkina Faso that needs to be closely monitored).
Considerable supervision is also required because of the interrelated nature of the IDA-financed project and
the rest of the program. Coordination among multiple donors involved in the program and IDA will be
essential for effective implementation. Coordination of the project will also take place on a daily basis,
with one consulting firm supervising all physical components. The Government will request donors to
participate in an annual review meeting in Ouagadougou until project completion. IDA will conduct two
supervision missions per year and it is expected that other donors will also participate in the second
supervision mission, in addition to the annual donor review meeting. ONEA will provide quarterly,
semi-annual and annual reports on the implementation of the project for the physical components, the
capacity building and the service contract financed by IDA and for the rest of the program. These reports
will also be used for the donors' review meetings. ONEA will prepare mid-term and completion reports.
The semi-annual, donors' review meeting and annual reports will be submitted to IDA, one month after the
end of the relevant period, and the mid-term report one month before the mid-term review. The completion
report will be submitted to IDA within six months after the closing date of the project.
A comprehensive mid-term review will be jointly conducted by the Borrower, ONEA, IDA and the
other donors. The scope of the review will include: (a) progress in implementing the physical components
of the program and the project in relation to planned targets; (b) progress in achieving institutional
strengthening and improving commercial operations; (c) improvement in overall operational performance in
terms of water production, coverage, maintenance, staffing and performance agreement; (d) review of
ONEA's financial situation, including tariff levels, cost recovery, accounts receivable, and inventory
management; and (e) financial management review, including improvement in the accounting system and
applicable procedures.
In view of the importance of this review: (a) the Borrower, IDA and other donors will perform a
comprehensive project implementation review in April 2004; (b) the Borrower and ONEA would ensure
that relevant reports are prepared prior to this review; (c) the Borrower, ONEA, IDA and other donors will
agree, on the basis of the results of this review, to implement specific actions according to an agreeable
timetable.
On-lending arrangements. IDA's credit to ONEA will be onlent, partly in the form of a long-term
loan and partly as contribution to equity capital, in order to maintain the conservative structure of ONEA's
balance sheet. This will also limit the sector's interest expense and the impact on water tariffs. Agreements
have been reached during negotiations that the Government will pass on to ONEA, on terms and conditions
-11 -



satisfactory to the Bank, an amount of US$42 million, in the form of equity contribution, and an amount of
US$28 million as a loan with a maturity of 20 years, including 10 years of grace period for the principal,
and at an annual interest rate of 5.4 percent. The foreign exchange risk will be bome by the Government.
Execution of the on-lending agreement, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Financial Management, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing
MOZ-ONEA will carry out project financial management on behalf of ONEA, while ONEA will
retain global financial accountability for the project. A draft implementation manual, outlining
arrangements for project execution, has been prepared. The manual was reviewed with ONEA and
MOZ-ONEA during appraisal and was found to be incomplete. A revised draft manual was prepared after
the appraisal mission, was again reviewed and found acceptable. The new manual includes financial,
procurement and project reports. These reports will be produced according to FMI standards. The
production of a manual acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
A review of project financial management systems, carried out during appraisal, found the systems
deficient and not up to standard to produce Project Management Reports (PMR). The systems in place lack
budget monitoring capacity. In addition, modules related to analytical accounting, financial and budget
monitoring are missing. After the appraisal mission, a financial and administrative director was recruited
to head the finance and accounting department of MOZ-ONEA. AFD is financing the installation of a new
computerized management system based on terms of reference cleared by IDA. Approval of the new
computerized management system by IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness. MOZ-ONEA has been
given an 18-month period for eligibility under FMI disbursements. In the interim, traditional disbursement
procedures will be used.
ONEA has agreed to continue preparing its financial statements in accordance with international
accounting standards. Its accounts will be audited according to international auditing standards, and by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. ONEA will submit the audit reports to IDA within six months
after the end of the fiscal year. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared six months after the
closing of the credit.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Detailed technical studies, financed under the Engineering Credit by IDA, concentrated on the
least-cost alternative of Ziga. During program preparation, a demand forecast was conducted and program
implementation phasing was reviewed. Based on the detailed design study, the Ziga alternative for
Ouagadougou still represents the least-cost solution. An additional effort to reduce the cost of the program,
by phasing out the construction of one primary network (branche nord) would only have a marginal impact
on the financial intemal rate of return and would also have resulted in a reduction of ONEA's revenues.
Institutional arrangements: Apart from the technical consideration of water supply sources, a
review of the option of ONEA managing the sub-sector, with the support of traditional technical assistance,
was considered but found unacceptable because of its unsustainability. Experience in other countries has
shown that entering into a partnership with highly experienced firms in the sector offers the best and most
efficient way of promptly acquiring (at minimum cost) additional operating, technical and managerial
expertise necessary to achieve increased operating efficiency. In particular, the private sector partnership
- 12 -



option has proven to be more conducive to a sustainable buildup of technical capacity than the more classic
form of technical assistance through consultants. While extensive consultation with the Government did not
conclude in the use of PSP, it was agreed that a performance-based service contract will be entered by
ONEA, with a consortium made up of a water company and an auditing and accounting firm to run
ONEA's commercial and financial operations.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Laste Supervision
Sector issue                      Project                 (PSR) Rat*Ws
1.              1                             (Rana -ffanww*d poiecs only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Improve urban living conditions by (i)  Urban Environment Project   S             S
developing sanitation services and  (Cr. 2728)
primary drainage facilities; and (ii)
strengthening capacity and increasing
revenues at the municipal level to
manage urban sanitation services.
Engineering Studies, Environmental   Engin. Credit (Cr. 2519)       S             S
Impact of the Ouagadougou Water
Project and developing technical
capacity to handle the Ouagadougou
Water Supply project.
Other development agencies
KfW/GTZ Technical Assistance      Strengthening of ONEA
AFD Economic & financial studies  Strengthening of ONEA
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of the proposed project draws heavily on lessons learned from implementation of the
previous Engineering Credit in Burkina Faso and from other Bank-supported water supply projects
undertaken in the Sub-Sahara Africa region, as well as other donor involvement in the urban water
sub-sector in Burkina Faso.
(i)    Government involvement in operations:  Some cases of Government involvement in ONEA's
operations were deterrents to improving financial management and sustainability. This was compounded
by delayed payments of its water bills. Under the project, financial management responsibility will be
contracted to an intemational water operator associated with an auditing firm experienced in all aspects of
financial management.
(ii)   Financing large investments and paving attention to sector management: When the Bank is
financing a significant investment, it should pay close attention to sector management and not just to
engineering activities and implementation of physical works. Capacity building activities will be financed
by the credit in the field of utility management. In addition, implementation of the service contract by an
- 13 -



intemational water operator to manage ONEA's commercial and financial operations will significantly
improve the performance of the urban water sub-sector. The sub-sector will also be better managed if a
tariff policy, aimed at ensuring financial sustainability, is in place. A financial model has been developed
for the sector and will be used by ONEA. Annual tariff adjustments will be adopted to bring the sub-sector
to financial equilibrium before the end of the project.
(iii) Local counterpart funding (LCF): The performance of even the best prepared project will turn out
to be unsatisfactory if there is no local counterpart funding. To minimize the LCF problem, which has
affected most projects in the Africa Region, the project will: (i) limit LCF to a maximum of 10 percent of
the project cost; and (ii) ensure that LCF is generated from ONEA's ongoing operations. To ensure that
these funds are available, when needed, agreement was reached during negotiations to have ONEA annually
set aside from its operations needed amounts to meet its LCF obligation.
(iv)   Donor coordination: When several donors are involved in a sector, donor coordination, including
the definition of roles and responsibilities should be clarified ahead of project start up. Agreement has been
reached that progress reviews of the project will take place once a year with all donors involved in the
program. It is also expected that donors will participate in a second annual review meeting each year that
will take place during the Bank' second supervision mission. Donors have also agreed that supervision of
physical works under the project and the program will be carried out by one consulting firm (financed by
IDA). The consulting firm has already been selected.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower commitment and ownership is demonstrated by the fact that ONEA successfully
completed major studies under the Engineering Credit to help prepare this project. Additionally, Borrower
commitment to strengthening the sector is indicated by (a) transforming ONEA from a quasi public entity
to an autonomous entity; (b) agreeing to use an international water operator and auditing firm to run
ONEA's commercial and financial functions; (c) continuing with limited technical assistance and staff
training; and (d) adopting a comprehensive performance agreement, establishing targets related to the
payment of its water bills, and the use of an appropriate tariff policy.
Borrower ownership is exemplified by the Government's strong efforts to secure approximately
US$205 million for the overall program and by organizing two donors' meetings (in 1996 in Germany and
in 1999 in Burkina Faso) to make the funding of the program possible. In addition, the Government has
granted ONEA a 4.5 percent increase on the average tariff, which has been in effect since April 1, 2000,
and is committed to the sub-sector reaching financial equilibrium by December 31, 2006. The Government
accords the highest priority to this project and has waived all import and tax duties to the construction
works and acquisition of equipment.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Institutional reforms are difficult to achieve and need long-term involvement. The investment is
very high, and no single donor would be able to fund the entire sub-sector investment program. The Bank's
catalytic role (as demonstrated during the Donors' Conferences of May 1996 and February 1999) is
critical; it has encouraged other donors to participate in project preparation and to continue funding the
sub-sector. Moreover, the Banlk's comparative advantage in multi-donor sector reform operations, as
demonstrated with success in Senegal, makes it the appropriate lead agency. The Bank's involvement will
also: (a) lend credibility and transparency to the operation, because of its worldwide experience in
supporting the implementation of similar projects and its well established procurement procedures; and (b)
help to assure less political interference and better control of financial resources during project
- 14 -



implementation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$3.28 million; ERR = 10,5 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
A cost-benefit framework is used to assess the financial and economic viability, the distributive
impact and the risk profile of the project. With and without project scenarios are defined in order to identify
incremental costs and benefits of the project, and evaluate principal economic indicators of the project, that
is, the net present value (NPV) and economic rate of return (ERR). Given the expected life of civil works
under the capital investment component, the analysis is modeled over a 20-year period (2000-2020). Cash
flows are discounted, using a discount rate of 10 percent, which is assumed to be a proxy of the
opportunity cost of capital in Burkina Faso and which is also the Bank's typical hurdle rate for water and
sanitation projects. Project costs are detailed in Annex 2.
The new Ziga dam and reservoir on the Nakambe river will enable the production of an additional
41.4 Mm3 of water per year, of which 27.6 Mm3 are envisioned to be produced in the first phase of the
project, and an additional 13.8 Mm3 in the second phase. The dam was completed in July 2000, and the
reservoir will be filled by early 2002. Timing of construction of the second phase will depend on the evolution
of the water demand. Based on current projections, the second phase should be commissioned between
2010-2015 (see details in Annex 4).
All major project components have been subjected to the least-cost test. An extensive analysis of
design alternatives (see project files) revealed that the Ziga reservoir was the cheapest alternative to provide
additional water supplies to Ouagadougou.
For the performance-based service contract, strict adherence to transparent and competitive bidding,
clear and challenging performance targets, as well as attractive financial incentives will ensure the
cost-effectiveness of the performance-based service contract.
The project's main impacts and benefits include:
* Economic gains resulting from sustaining or increasing current water consumption levels;
*   Reduction of coping strategies undertaken by households to mitigate water shortages and/or lack of
access to water supplies;
*   Positive impacts on public health from sustaining or increasing current water consumption levels, and
improving the quality of water supplies;
*   Negative and positive external effects (for instance, on the environment); and
*   Macro-economic impacts.
In the base scenario, the net present value of the project is CFAF 3,280 million. The ERR is 10.5
percent, slightly above the discount rate. Because economic benefits have not been fully quantified, this rate is
probably underestimated, therefore demonstrating the economic viability of the project. More than 60 percent
of water use benefits accrue to households to be provided with new connections.
The marginal cost of bulk Ziga water, delivered at Ouagadougou, and approximated by the average
incremental cost (AIC), is CFAF 434 per cubic meter (US$0.62/ m3).
- 15-



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV-=US$ million; FRR = 8.4 % (see Annex 4)
A major objective of the project is to achieve and maintain financial equilibrium by December 31,
2006. The sub-sector should have the capacity to meet all of its financial obligations, including debt
service payments, counterpart funds on investments, investments financed from its own resources, payment
of all duties, taxes and suppliers. To this end, financial simulations, carried out on the basis of the
financial model indicate that annual tariff adjustments for the duration of the project will be 3.4 percent.
The simulations have shown that liquidity maintenance is sensitive to water sales and therefore to demand.
The financial rate of return of the project is 8.4 percent and is above terms of financing of all direct loans
or onlending schemes. A 10 percent reduction in water sales reduces the FRR from 8.4 percent to 7.4
percent. The financial rate of return of the service contract is quite high (around 18.8 percent) and makes it
a viable option.
Fiscal Impact:
Subsidies. The urban water sub-sector is not receiving operating subsidies from the Government. A peak
cash-flow shortfall is anticipated in 2004 and has been estimated to be about CFAF 4,261 billion. This
shortfall will be financed through a line of credit from a commercial bank.
Taxes. Water sales are subject to the normal VAT rate of 18 percent, except for the social tranche tariff,
which will benefit from a zero VAT rate. ONEA's net income is subject to a 0.5 percent corporate income
tax and 35 percent net income tax. Incremental water sales under the project will thus generate VAT from
CFAF 1.6 billion in 2004 to CFAF 1.9 billion in 2005 and CFAF 2.1 billion in 2006 compared to 1.1
billion in 2002. All imports associated with construction activities are free of import duties. Considering
that normal tax and customs duties vary between 30 and 50 percent, with an average of 35 percent, the tax
waiver represents a saving of about CFAF 16 billion for the project.
Counterpart Funding. Counterpart funding will be provided by ONEA, and is estimated to be a
maximum of US$5.36 million. Payment of this counterpart fund, by ONEA, will demonstrate the
autonomy of the urban water supply sub-sector. There will be no counterpart funds from the Government.
3. Technical:
The final design studies of the project and the program were prepared from 1994 to 1997, during
the Engineering credit (financed by AFD and IDA). Special attention was given to the dam and to the
preparation of the Environmental Impact Assessment and the Environmental Management Plan of the entire
program. The dam was commissioned in July 2000. In accordance with OP and BP 4.37, a Dam Safety
Review Panel (DSRP) of four experts, acceptable to the Bank, participated in the review of the design and
monitored the construction of the dam. Assurances were obtained that: (a) ONEA would make
arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, for annual inspections of the dam and its structures to detect actual
oT potential deficiencies; (b) annual inspections will include the "Kanazoe" dam, built years ago upstream
of the Ziga dam; (c) inspection reports will be forwarded to the Bank; and (d) required remedial actions
will be taken.
- 16 -



4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project implementation will be managed by MOZ-ONEA, which already has the experience of
implementing the Engineering Credit (2519-BUR). MOZ-ONEA's staff supervised preparation of the
detailed technical studies used for defining and costing the major physical components of the project and
the program. MOZ-ONEA has also supervised the construction of the dam and has completed the
resettlement program. Technical assistance financed by AFD is being provided to MOZ-ONEA. This
support will allow MOZ-ONEA to efficiently implement the physical components of the project. An
international water operator and a reputable auditing firm will manage ONEA's commercial operations and
financial functions.
4.2 Project management:
In general, ONEA (and MOZ-ONEA in particular) has competent and experienced staff, and the
agency is well equipped to implement this task. Following the assessment of the financial management
capacity (available in the project files), a detailed action plan has been prepared to meet the performance
criteria for PMR-based disbursement and is being implemented. The main aspects of the action plan are the
following: (a) in the area of financial management: (i) issuance of an Implementation/Procedures Manual
and selection of an auditor before credit effectiveness; (ii) installation of a management and accounting
computerized system, including contract management; and (iii) training of project staff to use new
procedures; and (b) in the area of procurement and contract management: (i) a contract management
system, integrated into the above-mentioned financial management system; (ii) a procurement section in the
Procedures Manual;  (iii) reorganization of the filing of procurement-related documents; and (iv)
procurement training sessions before credit effectiveness and during project implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
MOZ-ONEA staff has had exposure to World Bank procurement policies and procedures. They
participated in an October 2000 training course on procurement of works under World Bank financing.
Contract signing authority is vested in the President of the Board and the Managing Director of ONEA.
This will speed up contract signing for goods, services and works. Prequalification for major contracts will
ensure proper competition and selection of qualified contractors. Selection of the consulting firm in charge
of the supervision of works has already taken place. Selection of the international water operator was
completed in November 2000. In addition, the preparation of a procurement plan, found satisfactory, will
facilitate monitoring of the procurement process.
4.4 Financial management issues:
ONEA accounts (including the project's accounts) will be annually audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts, together with the auditor's statement, will then be forwarded to
IDA no later than six months after the end of its fiscal year. An action plan has also been prepared to
ensure that quaterly Project Monitoring Reports will begin at least 18 months after credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The maximum capacity of existing water resources is about 30 percent of future water demand. Previous
- 17-



studies conclusively established that constructing additional dams in the immediate surroundings (up to a
distance of 30 kIn) of Ouagadougou was not possible. Feasibility studies, carried out from 1984 to 1992,
reviewed a number of alternative water supply sources, many of which were rejected because the quantity
of available water would have been insufficient by the year 2000. Only three technical alternatives were
finally considered:
(a) The Black Volta (Mouhoun), without a dam, at a distance of 156 km from Ouagadougou;
(b) The Nakambe River, at Bagre. The dam has been built, but the transmission main would be
135 km long; and
(c) The Nakambe River at Ziga, 50 km from the city.
The costs of production and transport, but without any distribution cost, were estimated in 1986 to
be 320 CFAF, 285 CFAF and 134 CFAF per m3, respectively, for each of the above alternatives.
The Government of Burkina Faso, as requested by World Bank internal regulations, undertook a
full Environmental Assessment (EA) of the alternative at Ziga on the Nakamrbe River and at the program.
First, a draft EA was prepared by an international consulting company acceptable to the Bank. Given the
magnitude of the potential social and environmental impacts of this project and the program, it was
recommended that an expert be recruited who would be in charge of assisting the Government in preparing
its own Environmental Management Plan, based on the EA report's technical recommendations. An
Environmental Management Unit was established within MOZ-ONEA for this purpose. The Government
Environmental Management Plan (GEMP), which also includes social issues, was finalized in May 1997.
An extensive public consultation on the GEMP was conducted from January 23 to March 5, 1997. This
public consultation was widely announced in the media (radio, newspapers and others). All relevant
environmental and social assessment studies have been disclosed to the public.
An important result of the EA was that during the course of the engineering study, the dam design
was changed in such a way that flooded areas decreased in size, thus the number of people to be resettled
was limited to 6,134. The Government organized (in early October 1995) a three-day seminar that
reviewed the reconmmendations of the EA report and determined the major features of the Governmental
Environmental Management Plan, which now consists of a comprehensive Resettlement and Development
Plan (RDP), a Health Impact Mitigation Plan and a Bio-Physical Impacts Mitigation Plan (BIMP). The
results of these plans are presented and discussed in Annex 13. The GEMP, the Public Consultation
Report on this GEMP, the Environmental and Social Assessment Sumrnary (in French) of the
environmental and social assessment work (done during project preparation) and the Environmental and
Social Assessment Summary (in English) have been deposited in the Bank's Infoshop.
The Government of Burkina Faso has notified and obtained the no-objection from the Government
of Ghana with regard to construction and operation of the Ziga dam on the Nakambe River. The
Government of Burkina Faso has also contracted a Dam Safety Panel and engaged it in the construction of
the Ziga dam to advise on dam safety. The "Kanazoe dam" upstream of the Ziga dam, should also comply
with Bank dam safety standards. The Government has prepared an action plan on how to manage the river
basin water in a sustainable and equitable manner, and how to improve management of the reservoirs in the
Nakambe river basin. A study on integrated river basin management is underway on the Burkinabe part of
the Nakambe river basin. This study, financed by DANIDA, will support the execution of the action plan.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
- 18 -



GEMP, which includes all social aspects of the project, contains detailed plans for resettlement,
income restoration and socio-economic development in the Ziga dam area (see below). Appropriate
measures will be taken to mitigate the health impacts of the Ziga dam area (e.g. bilharzia, malaria and other
waterbome diseases). Epidemiological monitoring and mass treatment are part of the Health Mitigation
Plan and a comprehensive Bio-Physical Impacts Mitigation Plan has been developed.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Final version of the Governmental
Environmental Management Plan
(GEMP) is dated May 1997
The Govermment Environmental Management Plan was finalized some years ago. Bank
environmental and social staff reviewed the Environmental and Social Assessment studies and found them
up-to-date and in compliance with the Bank's Safeguard Policies. A large part of the GEMP is being
financed by the AFD and the African Development Bank and financial agreements have been signed. An
environmental/social river flow will be released from the Ziga dam in order to provide downstream users
with economic opportunities. A study to determine the exact flows to be released is underway and was
reviewed during appraisal. Belgium, will likely finance, in addition to the Government, socio-economic
development activities for the population downstream of the Ziga dam so that they can use this water for
their benefit.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During screening, in 1995, there were no public consultations on the Terms of References (TORs).
There have been extensive public consultations on the Govenmmental Environment Management Plan. A
separate public consultation report has been deposited in the Bank's Infoshop. The public consultations
have been widely announced through the rural radio and newspapers, and all relevant environmental
documentation made available for public comments. The public consultations took place from January 23
to March 5, 1997. Public meetings were held with the project's affected people (PAP), the local population,
NGOs, local technical govemment staff, other local government officials and elected representatives in nine
villages in the Ziga dam area" along the main pipeline and one in the capital, Ouagadougou. The GEMP
was presented in the form of visual tables to facilitate comprehension by the local people and explained to
the public by MOZ-ONEA' staff, including the GEMP's environmental coordinator.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A comprehensive Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan has been prepared with a
considerable number of relevant performance and impact indicators related to bio-physical, health and
social impacts. The agencies responsible for data collection and monitoring have been established. Data
will be stored and managed through a GIS. The indicators were established as a result of environmental and
social impacts and consequent mitigation actions identified in the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project seeks to (a) increase water supply reliability to Ouagadougou, especially to currently
unserved low-income areas; (b) increase the number of households connected to the network; and (c)
increase the number of available standpipes. For people who have access to water from standpipes,
- 19-



boreholes or wells, being connected to the network would improve their living conditions. Access to
potable water is a first step in an effort to alleviate poverty and is a critical precondition to health and
well-being. The international water operator will organize regular surveys and beneficiary assessments to
monitor progress in coverage and access to improved water services. These surveys and assessments will
specifically focus on previously unserved or underserved sections of Ouagadougou. Their findings will be
annually reported.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups participated, with the help of NGOs, in preparing
the mitigation plan, and will participate in its implementation. The Government organized (in early October
1995) a three-day seminar that reviewed the recommendations of the EA report and determined the major
features of the Government Environmental Mitigation Plan.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
National institutions participated in the preparation of the GEMP. A three-day national workshop
presented the data gathered during the Environmental Impact Assessment and allowed different
stakeholders to reach a consensus on the findings and recommandations. Local NGOs were closely
associated with the organization of this national workshop.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
To ensure consistency in implementing and supervising the GEMP, a social and environmental unit
has been created under the project coordinating unit within ONEA (MOZ-ONEA). The social and
environmental unit of MOZ-ONEA has already started supervising the implementation of the GEMP,
which has been designed as an integral part of the program. Competent national institutions participated in
the preparation of the GEMP and will assist the Government and ONEA during implementation. IUCN, an
international NGO with a subsidiary in Burkina Faso, will play a critical role in overseing the
implementation and in monitoring the GEM1?. Finally, the local NGO community was closely associated
with the national workshop and will play an active role in assisting or monitoring implementation of
various components of the GEMP.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
ONEA has established MOZ-ONEA as the project coordination unit. MOZ-ONEA has an
environmental and social unit with two staff. This unit will be responsible for organizing envirom-nental
and social monitoring activities. A GIS system, to be funded by AFD, will be established and used to
manage environmental and social monitoring data.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                                O Yes * No
- 20 -



Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Government developed a comprehensive Environmental Management Plan, which is described
in Annex 13 and in the section on Environment and Social issues above. The plan is compliant with
applicable safeguard policies, even if construction of the dam is not part of the IDA-financed project.
Funding for the implementation of the GEMP has been secured.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of the project will be achieved through enhanced institutional and financial
self-sufficiency, which can only be assured by ONEA if its annual revenue is sufficient to properly
maintain the works in the long run. ONEA's financial situation will depend on the tariff policy to be
adopted by the Government (following an updating of the tariff study, which is financed by KfW). The
tariff policy will take into account ONEA's need to reach financial equilibrium within a reasonable
timeframe while addressing the need to increase access to low-income households. The new tariff policy,
including appropriate annual tariff increases, if any, aimed at reaching financial equilibrium of the
sub-sector over the duration of the project, should be submitted to IDA by July 31 of each year and
implemented by January I of the next year, following IDA's no-objection. Government is committed to
having ONEA reach its financial equilibrium by December 31, 2006. It is expected that the international
water operator will achieve a high rate of recovery from Government as well as from private consumers. In
addition, productivity gains from ONEA's operations will likely reduce levels of tariff increases, which will
offer better prospects for sustainability. At the same time, improved quality of water services and better
customer service orientation will in turn increase customer willingness-to-pay.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Commitment of donors to continue to         S         Donors have been active for years in Burkina
finance the project is lagging.                       Faso even in the absence of a clearer
institutional set up in the sub-sector; all donors
signed an agreement on the implementation of
the program in February 1999; and annual
reviews will involve all donors, the Government
and ONEA.
Lack of counterpart funding from ONEA       S         Use of an international water operator will turn
will delay project completion.                        around commercial operations and financial
management of ONEA and increase cash
availability; and reduce level of counterpart
contribution will facilitate on time payment of
counterpart funds.
- 21 -



International water operator will not       H         International experience of the water operator,
perform as expected, due to interference              detailed performance indicators, supervision
from ONEA and/or day-to-day                           missions, annual reviews, technical audits and
involvement of the Ministry of Water.                 presence of the Bank and other cofmanciers will
deter interference.
ONEA is unable to coordinate both the       S         Audits of technical operations managed by
commercial operations under the Service               ONEA, existence of the OIR, supervision
contract and the technical operations.                missions, annual review and Performance
Agreement will help ONEA perform its duties.
From Components to Outputs
Lack of capacity and commitment to use      M         Prequalification using Bank procedures will
Bank procurement procedures effectively              take place; MOZ-ONEA has exposure to Bank
procurement procedures and training in
procurement has already taken place and will
continue during the project.
Limited number of competent and trained    M          Experienced technical personnel already staffed
staff are implementing the project and                MOZ-ONEA and they have supervised the Ziga
managing the technical operations.                    dam which is completed.
Govemment will not pay its water bills on  M          The Performance Agreement has set up targets
time                                                  for the Government to pay its water bills. In
addition, an elaborate procedure for assessing,
budgeting and paying Government water bills
have been defined and will be monitored during
the project.
Govenmment is not committed to the use of   H         Government has embarked on a process of
a Service Contract as a step to improve               opening up and increasing competitiveness of its
ONEA's performance efficiency.                        economy by reducing the costs of input.
ONEA is not committed to implementing       N         There is availability of resources and past
the training program                                 record of ONEA is convincing. In addition,
other donors are very active in that field.
Overall Risk Rating                         s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 22 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    A Subsidiary Loan Agreement is signed by the Government on behalf of ONEA and is also signed
by ONEA;
(b)    The implementation manual is adopted, satisfactory to IDA;
(c)    The Performance Agreement between ONEA and the Government is adopted, acceptable to IDA;
(d)    The appointment of an external auditor, acceptable, to IDA, for carrying out audit's of
ONEA'accounts, including project'accounts;
(e)    A Project Account has been opened and an initial deposit of CFA 50 million of counterpart funding
has been paid by ONEA, with an agreement that subsequent payments will be made on time;
(f)    The contract with the international water operator to run ONEA's commercial and financial
operations under the service contract has been signed; and
(g)    An accounting and financial MIS, acceptable to IDA, has been established.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[l 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
EC 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
-23 -



0 t 6 ~~~~~~ -Lt k.(; t(v,-k '  ,,,
Eustache Ouayoro               Letitia Obeng                                 /
Team Leader                    Sector Manager
- 24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Key  eioPmanc.
Hierarchy of Objectives          kTdlat             Motrin ti  Ev        tlon    Criicai Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increase access to basic public Access to safe water:  Performance for urban areas  Continued economic and
services and particularly  Urban: from 57% in 1994 to  will be monitored during  political stability and
access to water.          75% in 2005, at a rate of  reviews of ONEA's         increased priority for social
501cd.                    Performance Agreement.    and rural development in
Government's investment
program.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
(a) Increase reliability of  Increase water reliability.  Annual reports prepared by   Govermment supports the
water supply in Ouagadougou (24 hours per day)       ONEA.                      urban water sub-sector policy
by developing storage facility                                                 initiated in 1992, commits to
and transmission capacity.                                                      the financial equilibrium of
the urban water supply
(b) Increase coverage by  Population connected to the   Quarterly and annual reports  sub-sector and is open to
extending secondary and   water network (from 300,000  prepared by ONEA based on  explore further public/private
tertiary distribution networks  inhabitants to 800,000  reports prepared by the  partnerships.
and providing social      inhabitants in 2007)       international water operator,
connections and public                               on technical audits, surveys
standposts.                                          and beneficiary assessments.
(c) Improve the capacity of   Recovery rate from private    Annual reports prepared by
ONEA to manage the urban   customers (from 86% in 2000 ONEA based on reports
water supply sub-sector and   to 92% at the end of 2004 and prepared by the international
the rapid change in scope of  95% thereafter)        water operator, on technical
water services in                                    and financial audits.
Ouagadougou by contracting
out commercial operations
and financial management.
Accounts receivable of private
customers (from 160 days to
less than 120 days at the end
of 2004 and to 90 days in
2006)
Productivity of commercial
staff (from 186 to 230 in
Ouagadougou at the end of
2006 and thereafter)
Financial statements prepared
according to international
standards (on time and
certified for year 2002 and
thereafter)
- 25 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Project Outputs:
Increased reliability of water  Storage capacity (5,400 m3)  Project quarterly and annual  Donor community is still
distribution in Ouagadougou, Length of network (210 kms  progress reports prepared by   active in financing the
expanded and more accessible of secondary networks and    ONEA                  project; availability of
network.                  1200 kms of tertiary);                                counterpart funding; and
Government commitment to,
Increased number of                                  Project quarterly and annual  support the project and not to
connections and improved    Number of new connections   progress reports prepared by  interfere in the service
access to standposts      installed (45,000)         ONEA                       contract
Number of new standposts
(400)
Improved management of    Average time between meter  Annual progress reports   ONEA is able to coordinate
commercial operations and   reading and invoicing (from   prepared by ONEA based on  commercial operations under
strengthened financial    30 days to 15 days at the end  reports prepared by the  the Service Contract and
capacity                  of 2004 and thereafter);  international water operator  technical operations.
and technical audits
Annual reports prepared by
ONEA based on surveys and
beneficiary assessments
conducted by the international
water operator
Metered consumption       Annual reports prepared by
increased (from over 90% to  ONEA based on reports
over 95% at the end of 2004  prepared by the international
and thereafter);          water operator and technical
and financial audits
Computerized administrative
system for billing, collection,
receivables, complaints
tracking and accounting in
place at the end of 2003;
New connection policy and
procedures in place at the end
of 2002;
Inventory management
program for connection
equipment and meters in
place in January 31, 2003;
Computerized cost accounting
system in place in January
2003;
- 26 -



ONEA's financial
management information
system in place in June 2002;
Training program developed
and implemented by June 30,
2002.
- 27 -



Project Components I      inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                           Outputs)
A. Infrastructure:        52.05 million             Quarterly and annual progress Capacity and commitment to
(i) Construction of the                             reports prepared by ONEA    use Bank procurement
Boudtenga storage facility and                                                procedures effectively.
transmission main;
(ii) Construction of the                                                      Competent and trained staff
secondary and tertiary                                                       implement the project and
distribution networks and                                                    manage the technical
installation of connections                                                   operations.
and standposts
Government agrees on a new
connection policy regarding
social connections.
B. Technical assistance:  6.09 million
Supervision of physical works
under A and other physical
works under the
Ouagadougou Water Supply
Program except the Ziga dam
C. Capacity building and    8.15 million
Institutional strengthening:                        Quarterly and annual reports  Commitment to use the
(i) capacity building in  2.7 million              prepared by ONEA based on  service contract as a first step
technical, commercial,                             reports prepared by the   to improve performance
administrative and financial                       international water operator,  efficiency.
management of water utilities                       technical and financial audits.
ONEA's commitment to
implement the training
program.
(ii) Service Contract    3.32 million
(iii) Operating Investment    2.12 million
Resources
PPF Refinancing          0.40 million
Unallocated               3.31 million
Total                     70.0
- 28 -



ANNEX 1B
Rnchmarkinq Indicators
Units         Total ONEA               Oacaadouo
INDICATORS                 iS$ 1 = FCFA 65|  1997    1998  1999H   1997    1998    19991
Cove raae
Water Coverage - Utilit Level                            54.00    71.00   74.60    77.78    75.80    77.90
Sewerae Coveraae - Utility Level        I    %            n.a.     n.a.   n.a.      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
Water ConsumDtion and Production                                         _        -
Water Production                             Ipcd        59.70    46.70  45.00    45.17    43.00    43.50
m3/ctm       38.39    38.16  37.19    42.18    39.00    40.00
m3/hh/m      15.92    12.45  12.00     10.68     9.90    10.00
Total Water Consumption                     lpcd         30.40    38.50  36.00      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
m3/c/m       32.09    31.46  29.95      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
m3/hh/m       8.11    10.27   9.60       n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
Metered Water Consumption                    lpcd        30.40    38.50  36.00    32.98    31.45    31.80
m3/c/m       32.09    31.46  29.95    37.66    34.20    35.00
m3lhhlm       8.11    1027   9.60       7.80     7.26     7.50
Unaccounted for Water
Unaccounted for Water                   %_     _         15.60    17.60  19.501    10.71    12.80    13.00
m3/km/d       5.67     6.51   7.211     5.27     5.74     5.81
_   m3/connid       0.190    0.200  0.2381    0.140    0.160    0.170
Meterina Practices
Metering Level: % of connections metered  r    O ____    84 701   84.501 86.30    81 06    81 701  82 001
/o of water sold that is metered              %     I  100.001  100.00] 1000oo0     n.a.1    n.a.1    n.a.|
PiDe Network Performance                 _
Pipe Breaks                              breaks/km/yr    061      0.67   0.72      0.83     0.83     0.78
breaks/conn/yr   0.021    0.023  0.024   0.024    0.024    0.023
Sewerage Clogs                            dogs/kn/yr      n.a.     n.a.   n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
dogs/conn/yrJ    n.a.     n.a.   n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
Cost and Staffina
Unit Operational Cost - W&S              US$/m3 sold    $0.56    $52  $052          n a      n.a     n.a
US$/m3prod    $047    $043  $042          n.a      na       na
Staff)000 W conn                                          9.93    9.22   8.49      5.86     5.58     4.90
StaffOOO W&S conn                                        n.a.     n.a.   n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
StafffOOO water population served                         0.47    0.34   0.31      0.19     0.18     0.16
.-autuUU waler ~ng_ seWer PppuidLio#                      n.a.     n.a.   n.a.      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
Oacortos usasproposTson  v uperauing                   20.901   23.21  22.00[   24.001   25.961   26.51
o_traauul _erv_ces _os _svs              _________       0.871    2.96   3.001      n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
Qualitv of Service                       _____
Continuity of Service (annual average)  |  Hrs/day  -   24.00    24001  24.00     24.00    24.00    24 .00
Complaints of W&S services               _     _%        0.07     0.101   0.06     0.04     0.05     0.08
Wastewater treatment                          %           n.a.     na.J  n.a.       na.      na. l    na.
Billinas and Collections
Average Tariff: W&S                      US$/m3 sold    $0.46    $0.49- $060      $0.73    $0.85    $0.71
US$/conn/yr  $178.13  $186.40 $218.90   $342.97  $357.56  $304.60
|                                       |tal Kevenues perService ~,Op7peTCMMEI  US$/hh/yr   $210.42  $220.52 $253.00    $86.92   $90.56   $78.68
I lotai revenues per >ervice rop.,per capita I    % j    1.58    1.05   0.80       n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
Residential Fixed Component of Tariff    US$/conn/yr    $0.48    $0.74  $0.66       n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
of ave. btfn    0.3      0.4    37:      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
Ratio of industrial to residential           ratio       2.10      1.741  8.86      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
Connection Charge - Water                 US$/conn    $584.97  $698.70 $569.80   $369.23  $415.38  $415.38
% of per capita  - 272%    290%0  255%       n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
Connection Charge - Sewer                 US$/con,,       n.a.     n.a.   n.a.      n.a.     n.a._       n.a._



ANNEX IC
SUPERVISION PLAN
No       Date                       Objective                              Composition               Duration     SW
(weeks)
I     10101/01    Project Launch Workshop: Review of            Task Manager, San. Engineer,           2         12
10115/01    performance indicators, project desaiption,   Procurement Spec., Disbursement
Service Contract, procurement plan and        Spec., Fin. Analyst/Instit. Dev.
procedures, disbursement procedures, reporting  Spec, Env Spec.
formats, Performance and scope of technical and
financial audits, Environmental Management
Plan.
2    04/01/02-    Supervision Mission: Review of Execution of   Task Manager, San. Engineer,           2         6
04/15/02    Works, Review of procurement plan, Progress   Fin. AnalystInstit. Dev. Spec.
on Service Contract, Implementation of tariff
policy, Action plan on the financial audit, Rev. of
Fin. and Instit. Performance
3    10/01/02-    Supervision Mission and annual review         Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        7
10/15/02    Review of Execution of Works, Review of       Analystinstit. Dev. Spec, Env.
procurement plan, Progress on Service Contrac,   Specialist.
Implementation of tariff policy, Action plan on
financial audit, Rev. of Fin. and Instit.
Performance, Environmental Management Plan
4     04/01/03    Supervision Mission: Review of Execution of   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        6
04/15/03    Works, Rev. of Fin. and Instit. Performance,  Analystinstit. Dev. Spec.
Progress on the Service Contract,
Implementation of tariff policy, Review of
technical audit
5     10/01/03    Supervision Mission and annual review:        Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        7
10/15/03    Review of Execution of Works, Review of       AnalysVlnstit. Dev. Spec, Env.
procurement plan, Progress on Service Contract,   Spec.
Rev. of Fin. and Instit. Performance,
Environmental management Plan.
6     04/01/04    Mid-term Review: Accounting and               Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        12
04/15/04    disbursements, Progress on project            AnalysUInstit. Dev. Spec,
implementation, Progress on Service Contract,  Procurement Spec., Environmental
Review of performance indicators, Environmental    Specialist
Management Plan, Impact of project
implementabon, Agreement on future actons.
7     10/01104    Supervision Mission: Review of Execution of   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        6
101151204    Works, Implementation of agreed actions      AnalystlInsti Dev. Spec.,
following complebon of Mid-term Review, Rev. of
Fin. and Instit. Performance
8    04101/05    Supervision Mission and Annual review:         Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        7
04/15105    Review of Execution of Works, Rev. of Fin. and  AnalysVlnstit. Dev. Spec, Env.
Instit. Performance, Environmental Management    Spec.
Plan
9     10/01/05    Supervision Mission: Review of Execution of   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        6
10/15/05    Works, Rev. of Fin. and Instit. Performance   Analyst/Instit. Dev. Spec.
10     04/01/06     Supervision Mission and Annual Review:        Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.    2.0        7
04/15/06     Review of Execution of Works, Implementation of   Analyst/Instit. Dev. Spec., Env.
agreed actions following Complebon of Mid-term  Spec.
Review, Rev. of Fin, and Instit. Performance,
Environmental Management Plan
- 30 -



11     10/01/06     Supervision Mission: Review of Execution of   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.     2.0        6
10/15/06     Works, Rev. of Fin. and InsUit. Performance   AnalysVInstit. Dev. Spec.
12     04/01/07     Supervision Mission and Annual Review:        Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.    2.0        7
04/15/07     Review of Execution of Works, Implementation of   Analyst/lnstit. Dev. Spec., Env.
agreed actions following Completion of Mid-term  Spec.
Review, Rev. of Fin. and Instit. Performance,
Environmental Management Plan, Preparation of
ICR
13     10/01/07     Supervision Mission: Review of Execution of   Task Manager, San. Engineer, Fin.   2.0         7
10/15/07     Works, Rev. of Fin. and Instit. Performance,  Analystl/nstit. Dev. Spec, Env.
Environmental Management Plan, Preparation of    Spec.
ICR
Total Staff Weeks                96
- 31 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
The main objective of the proposed project is to increase access to adequate and reliable potable
water in Ouagadougou through expansion of the distribution and tertiary water networks and improve
urban water sub-sector management. The Project includes: (a) infrastructure with : (i) construction of the
Boudtenga storage facility and transmission main; (ii) construction of distribution and tertiary networks
and installation of connections and standposts; (b) technical assistance, through supervision of all
infrastructure activities of the Project and the program except, supervision of the construction of the Ziga
dam; and (c) capacity building and institutional strengthening with (i) capacity building in technical,
commercial, administrative and financial management of water utilities; (ii) strengthening ONEA's
commercial accounting and financial operations (through a service contract performed by an international
water operator and an accounting firn); and (iii) provision of operational investment resources to be used
by the international water operator to improve ONEA's commercial and financial operations.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$52.05 million
Infrastructure
Transmission main and Boudtenga storage facnity-US$737 million
The delivery system consists of the force main, the intermediate reservoir, and the gravity pipe. The force
main is a 17 kms ductile cast iron pipe of 1,000 nmm in diameter to convey water to the 5,400 m3
intermediate storage facility at Boudtenga. The bottom is at a level of 330.40 m and the overflow is at
335.40 m. From that point, the water is transported to the city through another 24 km ductile cast iron
transmission main of 1,000 mm diameter.
Secondary networks-US$11.90 million
The secondary network of about 210 km ductile iron conduits and PVC pipes ranging from diameter 850
mm to 100 mm.
Tertiary networks, installation of connections and standposts:-US$32.7 million
Tlhe tertiary network represents about 1,200 km of pipes to be installed in underserved or unserved
sections of Ouagadougou following the laying down of the secondary network and the installation of
45,000 new connections and 400 standposts.
Project Component 2 - US$6.09 million
Technical assistance
Supervision of infrastructure works of the project and the program (except the Ziga dam
already built), which will include reviewing and approving construction drawings and
arrangements, equipment, quality of materials, construction schedules, progress towards
agreed schedules, subcontractors, bills of quantity, certification of payments and taking-over
of works.
Project Component 3 - US$ 8.15 million
Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening
- 32 -



Capacity building -US$2.7 million
A program of capacity building and technical assistance includes: (i) providing support to
ONEA, corporate and technical development; (ii) developing and implementing management
training programs in personnel and financial management, budgeting, planning and
controlling; (iii) developing and implementing training programs for technical operations and
maintenance for water system operators and maintenance workers; and (iv) conducting
regular surveys and beneficiary assessments to monitor progress in coverage and access to
improved water services.
Service Contract - US$3.32 million
The international water operator will improve commercial operations and financial management. Some of
the outputs resulting from this involvement include development and improvement of: (i) standard
operating procedure manuals; (ii) a computerized financial management system; (iii) customer database
(with an improved meter reading, billing and collection system, as well as a better customer service
program); (iv) a public information program; (v) an occupational health safety program, hygiene
education, and an emergency response plan; and (vi) management and technical training programs.
Operating Investment Resources (OIR) - US$2.12 million
The OIR will have resources available to be used by the international water operator to support essential
short-term and operating investments that will improve commercial operations and financial management.
This will include, but not be limited to: (i) purchasing and replacing metering systems and fixing leaking
connections; (ii) purchasing computers and communication equipment (software for computerized
administrative and management systems and purchase of portable meter readers); and (iii) conducting
customer surveys, hygiene education and marketing activities.
- 33 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Infrastructure                                             14.61         29.23         43.84
Technical Assistance                                         1.13         4.50          5.63
Capacity Building & Institutional Strengthening             1.55          6.03          7.58
PPF Refinancing                                             0.08          0.32          0.40
Unallocated                                                 1.00          2.31          3.31
Total Baseline Cost                                        18.37         42.39         60.76
Physical Contingencies                                     1.46          2.92          4.38
Price Contingencies                                        2.07          2.79          4.86
Total Project Costs              21.90         48.10         70.00
Total Financing Required               21.90         48.10         70.00
Goods                                                         3.78           6.07         9 85
Works                                                        11.09          24.19        35 28
Services/Supervision                                          1.90           7.52         9.42
Traininglinstitutional strengthening                          0.51           1.99         2 50
PPF Refinancing                                               0.08           0.32         0.40
Unallocated                                                   1.00           2.31         3.31
Physical contingencies                                        1.46           2.92         4.38
Price contingencies                                           2.08           2.78         4.86
Total Project Costs     21.90          48.10         70.00
Total Financing Required      21.90         48.10         70.00
Note: The above tables reflect the IDA-financed project. Numbers may not add up, due to
rounding.
Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been added to the cost of works and pipe supply. No
physical contingencies were allowed for consultant services. Price contingencies have been added to base
costs plus physical contingencies.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 205.88 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 34% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 34 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
This Annex describes variables and assumptions used to calculate the project's economic rate of
return, and refers to the economic model available in the project's electronic files.
A cost-benefit framework is used to assess the financial and economic viability, the distributive
impact and the risk profile of the project. With and without project scenarios are defined in order to identify
incremental costs and benefits of the project, and evaluate principal economic indicators of the project, that
is, the net present value and the economic rate of return. Given the expected life of civil works under the
capital investment component, the analysis is modeled over a 20 year period (2000-2020). The cash flows
are discounted, using a discount rate of 10 percent, which is assumed to be a proxy of the opportunity cost
of capital in Burkina Faso and which is also the Bank's typical hurdle rate for water and sanitation
projects. Project costs are detailed in Annex 2.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A. Impacts and benefits generated by the project
The Ouagadougou Water Supply Program with the Ziga dam, a new reservoir on the Nakambe
(White Volta) river, will enable the production of an additional amount of 41.4 Mm3 of water per year, of
which 27.6 Mm3 will be produced in the first phase of the program, and an additional 13.8 Mm3 in the second
phase. The dam was completed in July 2000, and the reservoir will be filled by early 2002. Timing of
construction of the second phase will depend on the evolution of water demand. Based on current projections
(see below), the second phase should be commissioned between 2010-2015. Production and water transport
facilities include a 41 km water conveyor to Ouagadougou, pumping, treatment plants, and storage facilities.
Incremental quantities of water will be provided to existing customers as well as to an estimated 610,000
potential new customers (IDA financed project will provide 45,000 new connections that can introduce
450,000 potential new customers out of the 610,000 customers), through the expansion of storage facilities,
pressure equalization (construction of 8 elevated water towers), strengthening and expansion of primary,
secondary and tertiary networks.
All major program components have been subjected to the least-cost test. An extensive analysis of
design alternatives (see project files) revealed that the Ziga reservoir was the cheapest alternative for providing
additional water supplies to Ouagadougou, compared to the construction of several small-scale reservoirs in
the suburban area.
For the performance-based service contract, strict adherence to transparent and competitive bidding,
clear and challenging performance targets, as well as attractive financial incentives would ensure the
cost-effectiveness of the performance-based service contract.
The project's main impacts and benefits include:
* Economic gains, resulting from sustaining or increasing current water consumption levels;
* Reduction of coping strategies undertaken by households to mitigate water shortages and/or lack of access
to water supplies
* Positive impacts on public health, from sustaining or increasing current water consumption levels, and
improving the quality of water supplies;
* External effects (for instance, on the environment); and
- 35 -



* Macro-economic impacts.
Reduce impact on low-income      In general, low-income households would suffer disproportionately from
households                       increasing water shortages and unreliable supplies without the project. They
cannot afford coping arrangements which richer households in
Ouagadougou can pay for (storage tanks, pumps, tanker supply). Sustained
and improved service will have a greater impact on the healdi and the
quality of life of low-income households.
Reduction of water losses by      *  Inputs savings: energy, chemicals and other variable (short-run) costs
rehabilitating deteriorated networks    *  Avoided costs of expanding or rehabilitating water production and
as well as improving network design  conveyance facilities (long-run costs)
and operation. Reduction of indoor    *  Load reduction of wastewater collection and treatment systems (but
leakage and wastage through demand   organic load per capita expected to remain constant)
management (metering, pricing).   *  Avoided damages to private and public property (damages to
apartments due to water leaks, damages to roads and foundations)
Improvement and sustainability of  * Avoided mitigating/coping expenditures (fetching water, purchasing
water service/reliability (continuity of  water tanks or booster pumps, etc.)
service).                         *  Positive macro-economic impacts (attractiveness for potential
investors)
*  Increased willingness-to-pay for water
Better water quality by rehabilitating   *  Reduction of risk of water-related diseases
key elements of the existing water  *  Avoided private mitigating expenditures (e.g. filtering, boiling water,
treatment installations.             purchasing bottled water)
*  Increased willingness-to-pay for water
Network oputimzation             Energy savings, avoided damages to system (e.g. water hammer)
Prevention of further deterioration of  Savings in asset renewal
systems
Improvement of environmental     Protection of surface water functions and services (recreation, fish
conditions, particularly ambient water production, ecosystems, water supplies)
quality
Tariff adjustments, in line with cash                             Increased financial revenues, and
flow equilibrium objective                                        financial autonomy
Increase of billing and collection                                Increased financial revenues, and
rates, reduction of arrears                                       financial autonomy
Skills upgrading and increasing                                   Reduced financial costs, including
productivity                                                      efficiency gains
Improved managerial, commercial   Private sector involvement is expected to induce a higher level of
and financial situation of the utility  commitment, and private financing could be leveraged.
- 36 -



1. Economic gains resulting from sustaining or increasin2 current water consumption levels
1.1. Residential users
Figures 2 and 3 (below) depict the approach selected to estimate the economic value of water. In
microeconomic terms, the economic value of water is equal to the maximum amount the user is willing to pay
for a given quantity of water. The demand curve is obtained by placing the WTP data and related quantities
(WTP as a function of quantity consumed) on a graph . The gross economic value of water is the integral of
the demand function, the upper bound being the average consumption, or in other terms the area below the
curve.
Generally, only a few data points are available, and it is therefore not possible to precisely draw the
demand curve. In the case of Ouagadougou, ONEA data and field observations yielded three data points that
were used to construct the demand curve:
* Point 1 : average consumption (55 lcd) and average price paid (CFAF 500/m3, including water and
connection costs) for residential users connected to the network.
X Point 2 : average consumption (20 lcd) and average price paid (CFAF 1250/m3) by users served by water
vendors. The average price of a 200 liter water barrel is about 250 CFAF, hence the unit price of CFAF
1250/m3.
* Point 3 : average consumption (10 lcd) and average price paid (CFAF 2500/m3) by users served by water
vendors during periods of water shortage. It is assumed that unit water price doubles during periods of water
shortage, and consequently, water consumption is halved (i.e., price elasticity of demand is 1), hence, the
choice of the above figures. This is a conservative assumption because (i) actual observations have shown that
water price can more than double in periods of water shortage, and (ii) price elasticity of water demand is
typically lower than 1. In particular, demand is very inelastic for the first few liters of water (extreme left of
demand curve).
Figure 1 - Evolution of Water Availability for Residential Users (with and without project)
70 0
C                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--4--Domestic connec. tIon., without
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p r ojiect (lic d)
,, 400                          o --- ___   _  _    _--_ __  ____ _  tomestic conn.ction., with proJ*ct
(lcd)
-&-Standposts, without project (Icd)
-StandpoStS, with project (Icd)
1 00-   
The individual demand curve thus obtained is an approximate, since it does not account for income
differences between user categories (reliable income data and relationship to water consumption are not
- 37 -



available). Furthermore, the analysis does not account for effects resulting from economic growth, particularly
income growth (that would shift the demand curve to the right, and thus would increase the economic benefits
from the project).
The project should bring substantial economic benefits to Ouagadougou residents. In particular, the
project will enable the population to sustain current water consumption levels, and increase those levels for
households newly connected to the network or benefiting from the densification of standposts (see Figure 1).
Indeed, existing resources are now used at full capacity and population growth would put increased strain on
those resources. Three scenarios are considered for residential consumers, according to the type of service
provision:
1. Users served by water vendors (from standposts) during the entire analysis period (2000-2020) (type A,
Figure 2)
* With the project, users maintain water consumption at the current 20 lcd level, through 2020
* Without the project, per capita availability of water gradually declines to reach 10 lcd near 2010, due to
increasing water scarcity.
The gross economic benefit per capita and per day in year 10 for those users is represented by area A.
2. Users already connected to the network (type B, Figure 2)
* With the project, users maintain water consumption at the current 55 lcd level, through 2020.
* Without the project, per capita availability of water gradually declines to reach 30 lcd near 2010 due to
increasing water scarcity.
The gross economic benefit per capita and per day in year 10 for those users is represented by area B.
3. Users currently served by water vendors (from standpipes) but who will be connecting to the network as
a result of the implementation of the proposed connection policy (see assumptions in the model in the
project file) (type C, Figure 3)
About 70-75 percent of connection fees would be financed by ONEA through the project. Financing should
substantially increase demand for connections (currently constrained by both high initial fees and inadequate
water supplies), and enable a larger number of households to increase water use, up to 55 lcd in average.
Detailed assumptions regarding the number and time profile of installation of new connections, as well as
coverage rates, are detailed in the model (available in the project file):
* With the project, users newly connected to the network immediately increase water use from 20 to 55 lcd.
* Without the project, users would continue to be served by water vendors (from standpipes) and water
availability would gradually decline to reach 10 lcd in 2010, due to increasing water scarcity.
The gross economic benefit par capita and per day for those users is represented by area C.
Figures below depict the selected approach and illustrate the assumed scenario in 2010. The model performs
detailed calculations, accounting for the water supply-demand balance, according to the demand growth
scenarios described below.
In the base scenario, the average economic value of water for residential users (estimated by the model)
gradually increases, from 765 F CFA/m3 in 2004 to 1016 F CFA/m3 in 2020.
- 38 -



Figure 2 - Demand curve (users type A and B)
Price (F CFA/I4
2500 -/ Supply w/o                  Supply with
I   l |              /                    Supply w/o
project
....... . ...  Suvolv  with
project
500 _                         ----
Consumption
- - -   ----- - ---- - ----  1~   (liters/capita/day)
10         20        30                    55
Figure 3 - Demand curve (users tpe C)
Price (F CFA/I4
2500  --------     py w/o
/ *Demand
1250_~-- --                   Curve   1        ,
1250                 Curve                          Supply with
project
500
I              4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Consumption
. .     - r                             (literscapita/day)
10         20                              55
1. 2. Non-residential users (industrial, commercial, administration)
- 39 -



Following the above approach, the analysis assumes that the average economic value for
non-residential users remains constant at 2000 F CFA/m3. This value is approximately twice the current
average price paid by non-residential users.
2. Reducina and/or avoiding coving stratggies that households and non-residential users would
undertake to mitigate water shortages
Numerous studies have shown that households and non-residential users typically undertake a
variety of coping strategies to mitigate water shortages and water quality issues. Coping strategies include, fetching
water from alternative sources, drilling wells, installing water storage facilities, point-of-use water treatment, or
purchasing bottled water. It is difficult to predict ex-ante the related economic impacts that would result from
increasing water scarcity, but examples in Burkina Faso and elsewhere have shown that it can be substantial.
However, due to lack of data, the quantitative analysis does not account for the economic benefits that the
project should yield in terms of avoided coping costs.
3. Positive impacts on Public health, due to maintainine or increasing water availability and use
Many studies have shown that it is essential to ensure the provision of enough water (the WHO
recommends a minimum of 25-30 lcd) in order to promote basic hygiene practices and thus contribute to the
reduction of water-related diseases. Because impacts on public health are particularly difficult to measure and
predict accurately, the base scenario does not take them into account. However, to assess the magnitude of
potential health-related economic impacts, the economic model allows testing of scenarios involving increase of
public and private spending on health, assuming it is a function of GDP. For instance, a scenario assumes that
(i) current direct and indirect costs of water-related diseases equal 2 percent of the GDP; (ii) with the project
those costs would remain constant; and (iii) without the project the same costs would increase by 2 percent
every year. In this scenario, the project's economic benefits in terms of avoided health costs would be about F
CFA 10 billion (net present value at 10 percent discount rate). The intemal rate of return would increase from
10.5 percent (base scenario) to 1 1.4 percent.
4. Macro-economic impacts
Increasing water shortages would have negative effects, not only on people's well-being, but also on
the overall macro-economy. For instance, production costs of water-intensive industries and activities would
increase, which would reduce their competitivity and may force them to localize elsewhere. Also,
Ouagadougou would become less attractive economically, which would constraint the development of its
economic potential, and entail negative social impacts.
5. External effects
The Ziga project will generate positive and negative extemal effects. Main negative extemalities
include:
*   Reduction of hydropower output at the Bagre dam, downstream of Ziga;
* Loss of forested areas and natural habitats (in flooded area);
*   Impacts on households' livelihoods within, around, and downstream of the Ziga reservoir; and
*   Increase in water consumption and additional wastewater generated and discharged in the urban
environment in Ouagadougou.
However, there will also be positive extemalities:
-40 -



*  Opportunities for commercial, subsistence and recreational fishing in the Ziga reservoir; and
* Sale of wood collected in the future reservoir.
5.1. Opportunities for commercial and subsistencefishing in the Ziga reservoir
According to a study carried out during project preparation, the Ziga reservoir 7,000 ha should
create a substantial development potential for conmnercial and subsistence fisheries. Annual yield would
gradually increase to reach about 500 tons, equivalent to annual retail sales of CFAF 500 million, assuming a
fish retail price of CFAF 1,000 per kg. Due to uncertainties surrounding the effective development of fisheries,
and in particular the necessary distribution and marketing systems, the base scenario does not account for this
potential benefit stream. However, on the basis of the above assumptions (included in the model), the internal
rate of return would increase from 10.5 percent to 10.6 percent.
5.2. Reduction of hydropower output at the Bagre dam downstream of Ziga
Simulations carried out by SONABEL (State power utility) have demonstrated impacts from the
Ziga dam on water releases and hydropower production at the downstream Bagre dam. Reductions of volume
of water released downstream (Bagre essentially) match reductions in power output. They would typically
reach 15 to 19 percent in dry years, 15 to 17 percent in average years, and 0.3 to 2.5 percent in wet years.
Because only a fraction of Ziga's capacity will be utilized over the analysis period, it is assumed in the base
scenario that the reduction of hydropower output will be (on average) 10 percent over the whole period (up to
year 2020). Using the current financial price of bulk power (CFAF 80/kWh) as a proxy of the economic value
of energy (distortions are not significant) the resulting net present value of the economic loss would be CFAF 1
billion. The ERR of the project would decrease from 10.5 percent to 10.4 percent. Potential impact is therefore
marginal, compared to the expected benefits of the project, and will be mitigated through the design and the
coordinated implementation of proper operating rules for both facilities.
5.3. Impacts on livelihoods of populations living on the site of the Ziuga reservoir and downstream of the
site of the Ziga reservoir
Expected impacts include loss of agricultural land, impacts on traditional fishing and land tenure,
displacement of people and goods, impacts on public health, fauna and flora. Actions have, or will be
undertaken to mitigate these impacts: resettlement and rehabilitation plans upstream and downstream of the
dam, phased filling of the Ziga reservoir and coordination with Bagre hydropower plan. It is assumed in the
economic analysis that the resettlement, rehabilitation and impact mitigation plan will fully offset these
negative impacts. The cost of GEMP is therefore accounted for, but not its expected benefits (they are fully
offset).
In addition, GEMP includes risk assessment and mitigation of potential actions from upstream users
that could impact the sustainability of the Ziga project (e.g., accidental discharges from mining sites).
5.4. Increase of wastewater production and discharges in the urban environment in Ouagadougou.
Sanitation and wastewater management is not an explicit objective of the project and the program.
However, the Strategic Sanitation Plan of Ouagadougou (SSPO) being implemented under the Urban
Environment Project (UEP), aims at expanding sewerage in commercial/industrial areas, and promoting
improved on-site sanitation systems in residential areas. Thus, the SSPO will contribute to the mitigation of
environmental externalities generated by the Ouagadougou Water supply Program. In addition, the
Performance Agreement between ONEA and the Government represents an umbrella framework for improved
wastewater management. Because the program and the project will generate significant additional quantities of
wastewater (about 20 Mm3 in the first phase and 10 Mm3 in second phase), it will be very important to ensure
-41 -



effective coordination between the SSPO and the program. SSPO costs are not accounted for in the economic
analysis of the Ziga project and the program because it is assumed that most of them are either sunk costs or
would need to be incurred independently of the project.
The project and the program will provide for appropriate treatment and disposal of coagulation
sludges from the water treatment plant.
5.5. Sale of wood collected in the reservoir
In the framework of the resettlement and mitigation plan (GEMP) the site of the Ziga reservoir has
been cleared of trees. Sale of wood and derivatives (charcoal) has been estimated at about F CFA 200
millions. This benefit is a function of the project and therefore is accounted for in economic terms as without
road access (i.e., no project alternative) collection and sale of wood could not be realized.
An added economic benefit is the long-term positive impact of the quality of the water in the reservoir because
of clearance of trees.
6. Service contract
Because the objectives of the service contract are essentially the improvement of the financial
performance of the utility, no significant economic benefits are expected. This would have been the case if the
contract included performance objectives, such as the reduction of physical losses, enhancement of pumping
efficiency. Because installation of new service connections will be delegated to the water operator, efficiency
gains and cost savings are expected; however, due to methodological issues, the gains are not included in the
economic analysis.
Potential economic benefits resulting from the realization of the objectives of the Performance
Agreement are not accounted for because they are not linked to the operator's performance objectives and are
therefore more uncertain.
Main Assumptions:
B. Main assumptions
Assumptions made to estimate the project's economic viability are detailed in the attached economic
model (see project's files). Main assumptions are described below:
1. Demoeraphy
It is particularly challenging to forecast population growth in the Ouagadougou metro area over the
next 20 years. It would be probably inaccurate to simply extrapolate the very high growth rates reported in the
1980s and early 1990s. In this respect, the population forecasts used by ONEA (7 percent constant over the
entire 2000-2020 period) do not seem to be realistic. Although it is true that the annual rate of population
growth has reached or even exceeded 7 percent, it is unlikely that high growth rates will be sustainable. Indeed,
recent demographic data show that growth is slowing down, in accordance with trends observed elsewhere in
Africa (demographic transition). A set of scenarios (low, medium, high) has been constructed and can be
selected in the interactive model. The base case assumes a medium growth scenario (see Figure 4).
-42 -



Figure 4 - Population Scenarios for Ouagadougou Metro Area
Low scenario      1,041,000       1,256,000         1,472,000         1,676,000       1,819,000
Medium          I,050,000       1,313,000        1,588,000         1,854,000        2,04S,000
scenamo
High scenario      1,061,000       1,393,000        1,755,000         2,120,000       2,389,000
ONEA scenario       1,070,000       1,501,000        2,105,000         2,952,000       4,141,000
It is also assumed that the same (medium) growth scenario would apply to both with and without
project alternatives, although it is possible that population growth be lower without the project as a result of
increasing water scarcity and resulting negative social and economic impacts.
The resulting demand and water production scenarios are displayed in Figures 5, 6 and 7 below.
Figure 5 - Demand Scenarios -- 2000-2020        Figure 6 -- Water Production (base scenario)
4,an  __ -n, ImY -- - -----  ---  ----0n  -
4=                                                                     im~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
35D--/,w =D -=--'
r 3mco~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                             -                  U_
0 3= -
zlm -1041 40  -- 4*   So Et 4
Figure 7 - Water Supplies (Available Capacity) and Demand, Including Losses - Base Scenario
  8_000 -|-t  l                               om __ _. ______________________________________
50000         . __.  _.___ ____ I1B)                    7 
sr 0000__           _____     v __i
30000 ---_                                               -
SUPPLIES                      ,      
(total availableresurces-ces)
4 01 0 00-_    . _     __                                    ___             _  _  _
3 0 0 0 0/ 
g  _-f,  (constrained until 2004, equals consumption thereafter)
1 0000 --~w^^*<7~~-                 -                           _                     _
-43 -



2. Sectoral and macroeconomic conversion factors
Due to the relative openness of Burkina Faso's economy, no macroeconomic conversion factors have
been used to convert financial to economic flows. In addition, no sectoral conversion factors were used, as the
economic costs of inputs (such as energy and labor) did not significantly depart from financial costs. Financial
costs were adjusted by eliminating taxes and duties and transfer payments. The exchange rate was assumed to
be in equilibrium, as a result of the 1994 devaluation.
3. Coveraee rate (domestic connections and standpipes)
The coverage rate used in the economic analysis is based on the objectives set in the project's capital
investment plan. It is however difficult to accurately predict ex-ante the coverage rate over time as it will
depend on households' demand. Individual connections will. be promoted through the financing of up to 75
percent of the connection cost. As the majority of poorer households will continue to rely on standpipes, a
policy to improve access to water supplies for unconnected households will also be implemented. It will
include densification and better geographic repartition of standpipes, in order to reduce transportation costs,
which account for the bulk of the added value of water sold by vendors. However, the policy will ensure that
sufficient income accrues to caretakers of standpipes (fontainiers) to promote adequate O&M of facilities.
Coverage rate for years beyond project's completion (2007) have been adjusted in the economic
analysis so that differences between with and without project alternatives have no influence on the project's
rate of return.
4. Other variables
Assumptions are generally based upon historical data obtained from ONEA or project's reports,
including:
*   Water use (unit and total) by user category;
-   Available water resources;
*   Program's capital investment costs (see details in Annex 2). Costs of works already completed (such as
the dam and ancillary facilities) are treated as sunk costs and are therefore not accounted for;
*   Cost of inputs (electricity, chemicals, etc.);
*   Labor costs, O&M and overhead costs;
*   Unaccounted-for-water (technical and commercial losses); and
* Value of external effects
C. Results (base scenario)
In the base scenario, the net present value of the program is F CFA 3,280 million. The internal rate
of return is 10.5 percent, slightly above the discount rate. Because economic benefits have not been fully
quantified, this rate is probably an underestimate, which makes the project economically viable. More than 60
percent of benefits accrue to the households who will be provided with new connections.
The marginal cost of Ziga's water, delivered at Ouagadougou (i.e., bulk water costs, including
production costs and transportation costs from Ziga to Ouagadougou), and approximated by the average
incremental cost (AIC), is F CFA 434 per cubic meter (US$0.62 / m3).
-44 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
D. Sensitivity analysis
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on critical variables, including population, macroeconomic
conversion factor, domestic demand, investment costs and quantifiable extemal effects. Results are shown
in Figure 8 below:
Figure 8 -- Sensitivity Analysis
F (FA Iillions                                             IRZR        NPV 
Population growth: high scenario                               13.1%           23618
Population growth: low scenario                                 8.4%          -10260
Macroeconomic conversion factor: 0.9                           12.1%           13363
Domestic demand: - 10%                                          9.5%           -3646
Domestic demand: - 20%                                          8.1%          -12795
Investment costs: + 10%                                         9.3%           -5011
Investment costs: +- 20%                                        8.3%          -13301
Hydropower losses: - 10%                                       10.4%            2435
Hydropower losses: - 20%                                       10.2%            1591
Impacts on public health accounted for (see para. A.3. above)  11.4%           10271
Impacts on fisheries accounted for (see para. A.5.1. above)    10.6%            4443
Economic value of wood not accounted for (see para. A.5.5.)    10.4%            3097
- 45 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Achieving financial eauilibrium of the sector
In terms of financial management of the urban water supply sub-sector, the aim is to reach
financial equilibrium, by a certain time horizon without imposing excessive increases in the average
water tariff on consumers (defined as total water billings for the year, in CFAF, divided by the volume
billed). Financial equilibrium means the capacity of the urban water sub-sector to meet its financial
obligations, expressed in terms of flows of funds, as they become due, including on-schedule payment
of commercial debts (settlements with suppliers) and financial debts (reimbursement of principal and
payment of interest charges on government subloans from the proceeds of the IDA credit, credits from
other donors, direct loans from donors or commercial banks, and payment of taxes). Financial
equilibrium should be seen as an indicator of the long-term financial viability of the sub-sector, in the
same way as a private enterprise must meet all its financial obligations as they become due in order to
continue to operate. The time horizon should be determined to be reasonably short (no more than five
or six years) while at the same time, long enough to minimize annual tariff adjustments necessary to
reach financial equilibrium.
Achieving financial equilibrium while keeping annual water tariff increases as low as possible will
require that: (a) operating costs are reduced through increased efficiency; (b) financial management
capacity of the sub-sector is strengthened and a financial management system is set up to monitor
progress; (c) an appropriate system is put in place to ensure timely payment of water bills by the
Government and quasi-government entities; and (d) policy and procedures are established to adjust
average water tariff at the beginning of any given year in order to reach sub-sector financial
equilibrium by the agreed time horizon.
Reducing operating costs through increased efficiency: In order to minimize the impact of tariff
revisions on the consumer, cash flow generating capacity of ONEA should be improved, primarily
through increased operating efficiency and not through increases in average water tariff. Experience in
other countries has shown that entering into a partnership with highly experienced enterprises in the
sub-sector offers the best and most efficient way to acquire promptly and at minimum cost the
additional operating, technical and managerial expertise, which is necessary to achieve increased
operating efficiency. In particular, the partnership option with the private sector has proven to be more
conducive to a sustainable buildup of technical capacity than the more classic form of technical
assistance through consultants. The performance-based service contract to be entered by ONEA, under
the proposed project, with a consortium made up of a water company and an audit and accounting firm
will provide the framework for such a partnership.
Strengthening financial management capacity of the sub-sector: ONEA, as the only major
corporate entity in the water sub-sector, assumes responsibility for the overall financial management of
the sub-sector. As ONEA's past record has shown significant weaknesses in this area, capacity building
will be provided to further strengthen ONEA. Implementation of the proposed performance-based
service contract in its financial management aspects will require special attention.
A key instrument of financial management is the sub-sector financial model, which will help
monitor progress in moving towards sector financial equilibrium by the agreed time horizon and
-46 -



determine annual adjustments of average water tariff. It will also measure the impact (on sub-sector
financial equilibrium (of altemative scenarios) based on changes in the key drivers of financial
equilibrium, such as the volume of water sold, the amount of annual investments and the terms of
corresponding financing (payment of principal and interest), the amount of investments financed out of
the sector cash flow and the overall operating efficiency of the sub-sector. The financial projections
derived from the model will be based on assumptions, satisfactory to IDA, which will be reviewed and
updated at least once a year. The findings of the demand study will be incorporated into the
assumptions once they are available. Within 18 months from credit effectiveness, the financial
management team of ONEA should be able to use the model routinely without technical assistance.
Payment of water bils by the administration: Water used by government departments and
agencies accounted for 9.5 percent of total consumption in 1999 and 20 percent of sector revenues.
Experience has shown that the financial viability of a sub-sector cannot be achieved if water bills from
the public sector are paid with considerable delays. Accordingly, under the proposed project, the
Performance Agreement between ONEA and the Government will be monitored to ensure that water
bills are paid by the administration within the agreed schedule. To make this happen, Government has
to reduce its water consumption, limit leakage, and privatize supply points that benefit individuals
living in government-owned housing. Moreover, public sector customers in arrears with their water
bills will be treated in the same way as private customers, except for a very small number of public
users (to be referred to as bonded customers). Detailed payment arrangements of Government water
consumption are included in the Performance Agreement. In case of non-payment, the main recourse
of ONEA will be the suspension of supply, in accordance with the provisions of the law and generally
accepted practice. The Government will include adequate allocations in its annual budget to cover the
projected water consumption of the public sector for the year.
Annual adjustments inaverage water tariff: The financial model will be updated at least once a
year and no later than six months before the end of the year. As part of this process, annual
adjustments in average water tariff will be determined in order to reach financial equilibrium by the
agreed time horizon. The existing block tariff structure will be maintained until the new tariff study is
completed. The new tariff structure will be designed in such a way that it leaves the average water
tariff unchanged.
Annual tariff increases necessary to achieve financial equilibrium by December 31, 2006
In the case of Burkina Faso, financial projections show that, with increases in the average water
tariff of 3.4 percent per year during the period of the project, ONEA would have a peak cash deficit.
According to the Bank's experience in similar projects in the subregion, it is expected that enough cost
savings will be achieved in the procurement of civil works to limit this deficit in 2004. After 2004, the
urban water sub-sector will generate a positive free cash flow. If such savings could not be achieved,
ONEA would seek a short-term bridge financing with commercial banks in Ouagadougou or in the
subregion.
The following table shows (for each year) details of water tariffs of private consumers and the
public administration, the amount of free cash flow, the net cash balance of ONEA, as well as other
key parameters of ONEA's financial situation during the period, including water sales and investments.
-47 -



2000         2001          2002           2003           2004            2005           2006           2007           2000           2009
WaterSupply
Production
Volumes of wabr
produced (million of      31.50         31.50          31.50          31.50          55.80          55.30           54.40          54.10          54.10          5410
m3)
Efficiency raio
0.80         0.00           0.80           0080           0.80           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.80           0.80
Volume of dem.d_
(m85en of m3)             23.64         24.72          20.32          27.50          30.03          34.89           38.48          41.28          43.26          45.08
Volume sold (million of
m3)                       21.35         22.34          22.64          22.55          28.19          32.14           35.64          38.33          40.05          39.96
Wuturttariff
Taiff incr.               4.50%        3.36%          3.36%           3.20%          3.36%          3.36%          3.35%          3.36%          3.36%           3.36%
Average water rate
(FCFA/m3)
Prvate customers
336.6        347.9          359.6          371.7           348.2          397.1          410.4          424.2          430.4          453.1
Adeinistfrao-r
890.3        520.2          951.1          983.1         1,010.1        1.050.2        1,085.4         1,121.9        1,159.5        1,198.5
Raw water
404.1        420.3          437.1          454.6          472.7          491.6           511.3          531.8          553.0          575.2
Maod annuts
Net value of Sued
assetS     70356.0      97,702.0       132,306.0      159,670.0      175,100.0      177,099.0      172,211.0      165,836.0       157,649.0      149,456.0
Investments
11,521.0     24.1020        40,904.0       34,914.0       23,791.0       10,588.0         3,817.0        2,416.0         627.0           643.0
Sale of fied assets                                     -              -                              -              -              -              -
Salun by eliunt typ.
Private cstormens
6,756.0      7,384.0        7,855.0        8,129.0        10,503.0       12,379.0       14,187.0       15,771.0       17,033.0       17,562.0
Administrafoni
8,791.0      9,570.0       10,198.0       10,638.0       13,195.0        15269.0        17,277.0       19,078.0       20,574.0       21,339.0
Raw water
209.0        229.0          249.0          271. 0          295.0          321.0          348.0          377.0          409.0          441.0
Total
15,756.0     17,183.0       18,303.0       19,038.0       23.992.0       27.969.0        31.8120        35,226.0       38,016.0       39,342.0
Finanmcil aggr,gatu
- 48 -



Revenues
11,328.0     11,419.0       12,097.0       12,674.0       17,047.0       19,724.0       21,977 0       23,382.0       24,731.0        25,062.0
Result
123.0     (1,631.0)      (3,626.0)      (4,321.0)      (1,918.0)           9.0         1.433.0        2,234.0        2,721.0        2,973 0
Cash and neat cash
772.0         54.0           46.0         2,893.0      (4,478.0)       (2,04.0)          60.0        3,556.0        7,775.0       11,528.0
From of funds
(4,319.0)     (718.0)          (7.0)       (2,939 0)      (1,585.0)        1,874.0        2,654.0        3,506.0        4,218.0        3,753 0
Financial indicatara
Rate of retu  on fixeod   3 30%        1.60%          0.50%          0.70%          2.60%           3.40%          4.60%          5.50%          6.30%          6 90%
assets
Operat-on costs raCo     84.60%       87.30%            95%         91.40%         74.70%         69.50%          63 40%         60.00%         59.00%         58.80%
Debt ratio               12.20%       20.40%         34.00%         48.30%         55.40%         56.50%          56.60%         55.80%         54.40%'        52 00%
Return on investnent      2.90%        1.40%          0.40%          0.70%          2.40%          3.30%           4.40%          5.20%          5.70%          6 10%
raCo
Financial rate of return on investments and sensitivity analysis
Based on total investment costs of US$67 million, incremental revenues (resulting from increased
production, distribution capacity and reduced unaccounted-for-water); and incremental savings (from
lower operating costs and higher commercial performance), the annual intemal financial rate of return
on investments has been calculated at 8.4 percent. The following table shows the results of a sensitivity
analysis in which the impact on the FIRR of a 10 percent variation in key parameters has been
measured:
Variation from                        FIRR
Base Case
Base Case                                                 0                            8.4%
Investment Costs                                             10%                            8.1%
-10%                            8.7%
Operating Costs                                              10%                           8.2%
-10%                            8.6%
Water Sales                                              10%                            9.3%
-10%                            7.4%
-49 -



The FIRR is lower than the ERR since: (a) it does not incorporate savings derived from consumer surplus;
and (b) it is calculated after all contingencies, contrary to the ERR. The FIRR is very sensitive to changes
in water sales.
Conditions for onlendin2 of IDA Credit Rroceeds to the sector
The proceeds of the IDA Credit will be on-lent to the sub-sector, represented by ONEA, partly in
the form of a long-term loan and partly as contribution to equity capital. In order to maintain the
conservative structure of ONEA's balance sheet, and also to limit the sector's interest expense burden and
its impact on water tariffs, 60 percent of the proceeds of the IDA Credit will be on-lent in the form of a
contribution of equity capital in cash, and the remaining 40 percent will take the form of a long-term loan
close to IBRD terms, that is 20 years duration, 10 years grace on the principal at 5.4 percent interest rate.
- 50 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Procurement
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Burkina Faso was carried out in
November 1999 showing that procurement procedures do not conflict with Bank guidelines. No special
exceptions need to be specified in the Credit Agreement as, in any case, IDA's guidelines take precedence
over local regulations. However, since there are practices that are in conflict with the Bank's guidelines,
the Credit Agreement should specify the conditions listed below that have to be met under National
Competitive Bidding.
Procurement of works and goods, financed by the IDA credit, will be carried out in accordance
with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). IDA's standard bidding documents and
evaluation report will be used for all procurement under ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB),
advertised locally, would be carried out in accordance with Burkina procurement laws and regulations
acceptable to IDA, provided that: (i) all bidders are given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii)
bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iii) no margin of
preference is granted to domestic contractors and manufacturers; (iv) no bid is rejected during bid opening;
(v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; and (vi) award is made to the lowest evaluated
bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources.
Consultant services, financed by the IDA credit, will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September
1997 and January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for
the solicitation of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, those not
exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individuals consultants.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been prepared and advertised for all ICB contracts for
Goods and Works and consultants services that will be recruited on an international basis. This notice will
be updated annually for all outstanding procurement within the above description.
The program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods
are summarized in Table A. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and
prior review are summarized in Tables Al and B.
The procurement methods for items to be financed by IDA are summarized in Table A.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works: Contracts for works financed by IDA amount to US$42.22 million, including taxes and
contingencies. All contracts exceeding US$500,000 per contract, including the delivery system and the
secondary network will be procured through ICB. Contracts for the laying of pipes and installation of
connection costing the equivalent of US$500,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount of
US$3.35 million will be procured through NCB, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Goods: Contracts for goods financed by IDA (totaling US$11.19 million) relate to the purchase of meters,
- 51 -



connection and standpost equipment, computerized portable meter readers and computers. ICB procedures
would apply for the procurement of all of the above contracts. For standardization purposes and to ensure
continuity, softwares to be used by the international water operator, contracts up to an aggregate amount
of US$330,000, will be procured by direct contracting.
Consultants and other services financed by IDA will include (i) the service contract for commercial
operations and financial management, studies, surveys and supervision of works; (ii) technical and
financial audits; and (iii) training. Consultants will be hired in accordance with Bank guidelines for
technical and financial audits, surveys and marketing programs. Consultants, excluding training, financed
by IDA, amounting to US$11.36 million will be hired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January 1999).
The successful firm will be selected by Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), which uses a
competitive process among qualified short-listed firms that take into account the quality of the proposals as
well as the cost of the services. Consultants selected on this basis will be those carrying out surveys and
marketing programs. A consulting firm, for the supervision of works, has already been selected by QCBS.
For financial audits, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.39 million, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be
the most appropriate method. Technical audits, up to an aggregate arnount of US$0.3 million, which can be
delivered by individual consultants, will be selected on qualifications basis through comparison of at least
three CVs. Short-list of consultants for contracts under US$100,000 may be comprised of nationals only,
if a sufficient number of qualified frms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if
foreign firms express interest in these services, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                          38.87          3.35           0.00          0.00         42.22
(34.98)        (3.01)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (37.99)
2. Goods                          10.86           0.00          0.33          0.00          11.19
_  (9.80)      (0.00)        (0.29)         (0.00)       (10.09)
3. Services                        0.00          0.00          12.88          0.00          12.88
ITraining                         (0.00)         (0.00)        (12.88)        (0.00)       (12.88)
4. PPF Refinancing                 0.00          0.00           0.40          0.00          0.40
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.40)        (0.00)        (0.40)
5. Unallocated                                                 .                            3.31
Total                          49.73           3.35          13.61         0.00          70.00
(44.78)        (3.01)        (13.57)        (0.00)       (64.67)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 52 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
co                              SeWctl~~8 on   Watliod
ftl.   More    QCBS      QBS        sFE      LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost`
A. Firms           10.67     0.00      0.00     0.39      0.00      0.00      0.00     11.06
(10.67)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.39)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (11.06)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.30      1.50      0.00      1.80
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (1.50)    (0.00)    (1.80)
Total  10.67     0.00      0.00      0.39      0.30      1.50     0.00      12.86
(10.67)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.39)    (0.30)    (1.50)    (0.00)   (12.86)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 53 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA-financed contracts for works above US$500,000, for goods above US$200,000 and the first
NCB contract for works would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would
cover about 92 percent of the total value of the amount contracted for goods, and 90 percent of the amount
contracted for civil works (See Table B). Selective post-reviews of contracts awarded below the threshold
level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff during supervision
missions.
The selection process for hiring consultants proposed by the Borrower will also be subject to Bank
prior review, which will include the review of budgets, Terms of Reference (TORs), short-lists, selection
procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts. Prior
review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively. However, prior review will apply to the
TORs of such contracts, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature, as determined by IDA,
regardless of their value, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the
above-mentioned prior review thresholds. For consultant contracts, estimated above US$100,000, opening
the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical
evaluation. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and IDA supervision missions. For training abroad and
in-country, the program, containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of courses, periods of
training and selection of training institutions, will be reviewed by IDA.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
E-n >1t~~~Cntac V=a_lue                                            C  t:sb
EiVonditure Ca oUSthuas)etd(U$mlon
1. Works                      C>500,000                   ICB                     38.87
First NCB Contract             NCB                      0.48
2. Goods                      C>200,000                   ICB                      11.19
3. Services                 Firms>100,000              QCBS/LCS                    5.33
Individual>50,000               Q                      0.30
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   56.17
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
- 54 -



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
IThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55-



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
00977   A77,'ou" Y'''Ifl0                           n   Pg'a'0        ig #0rc     '       ]
Civil Works                               42.22           100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expendituresl
Goods & Equipment                          11.19
100% of foreign expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
Consulting Services and training           12.88                        100%
PPF Refinancing                            0.40                         100%
Unallocated                                3.31
Total Project Costs                        70.00
Total                                      70.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for all expenditures should be made against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures for (i) contract for works in an amount equivalent or less than US$0.5 million equivalent; (ii)
contracts for goods in an amount equivalent or less than US$200,000; (iii) contracts for services of
consulting firms in an amount equivalent or less than US$100,000; and (iv) contracts for services of
individual consultants in an amount equivalent or less than US$50,000, which will be claimed on the basis
of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at a suitable
location and will be readily accessible for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and external
auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications,
MOZ-ONEA will open a Special Account (in FCFA) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation will be FCFA 2,000,000,000 and will cover about four
months of eligible expenditures. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount of FCFA
1,000,000,000 representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation into the Special Account. The
remaining balance will be made available when the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the credit
account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association, shall
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 30 million SDR. The Special Account will be used for all payments
less than 20 percent of the authorized allocation, and replenishment applications will be submitted monthly.
Further deposits by IDA into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal applications supported
by appropriate documentation.
- 56 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Pann|ct
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                     84
First Bank mission (identification)                                            03/22193
Appraisal mission departure                      07/04/2000                    07/05/2000
Negotiations                                                                   12/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    03/30/2001                    08/31/2001
Prepared by:
ONEA
Preparation assistance:
Engineering Credit (Cr. 2519-BUR)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Eustache Ouayoro                  Team Leader
Jan G. Janssens                   Lead Specialist,
Yao Badjo                          Sr. Sanitary Engineer,
Christian Diou                    Sr. Municipal Engineer,
Asha Ayoung                        Sr. Procurement Specialist
Eleanor Wamer                     Sr. Financial Analyst
Gerard Tenaille                   Sanitary Engineer (Consultant)
J. Renkewitz                       Financial Analyst (Consultant)
Claude Sorel                      Private Sector Specialist
Christophe Bosch                  Economist
Pascale H. Dubois                 Lawyer
Ventura Bengoechea                Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist, Peer Reviewer
Vincent Gouame                     Sector Director, Peer Reviewer
Mamadou Yaro                      Financial Management Specialist
Robert Robelus                    Environmental Specialist
Paul Kriss                        Economist
Fanny Barrett                     Sr. Program Assistant
Marie Adele Tchakounte            Program Assistant
Armele Vilceus                    Language Team Assistant
- 57 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
1. Environmental Studies (Etude de I 'impact sur 1 'environnement, Rapportfinal Juin 1995)
2. Resettlement plan (Etude de plan de Recasement et de la restauration des revenus des
populations,ONAT, octobre 1996)
3. Report on the dam impact on the population's health
(Rapport Etude de l 'impact de barrage de Ziga sur V 'etat de sante des populations, oct. 1996)
4. Biophysics Impact Mitigation Plan
(Plan d 'attenuation des impacts Biophysiques du projet (PAIB), 09/96)
5. Validation of Impact mitigation actions, final Report
(Validation des mesures d'attenuation des impacts du projet AEP/OUGA/ZIGA, Rapportfinal)
6. Final Report on survey regarding the government impact mitigation action plan
(Rapport de synthese del 'enquite publique sur le plan gouvernemental d 'attenuation des impacts
du projets sur 1 'environnement).
7. Preliminary study, Norms, design criteria, final report
(Etude Preliminaire, Normes et criteres de conception, Rapport definitif; juin 1995)
8. Water tariff study, 1995, GOPA (Etude tarifaire, 1995, GOPA)
9. Report on topographic studies. May 1995 (Rapport d'etude topographiques, mai 1995)
10. Hydrologic study, March 1996 (Rapport etude hydrologie, mars 1996)
11. Detailed design, Seureca (Avant projet detaille, Seureca)
12. Socio-economic studies, June 1995 (Etudes socio-economique, juin 1995)
13. Geotechnic reconnaissance, final report, November 1995
(Rapport final reconnaissance geotechnique, novembre 1995)
14. Technical memorandum, April 1996 (Memoire technique, avril 1996)
15. Dossiers of plans, April 1996 (Dossiers des plans, avril 1996)
16. Calculation notes, civil works, April 1996 (Notes de calculs genie civil et hydraulique,
avril 1996)
17. Supplementary geotechnic study, September 1996 (Etude geotechnique supplementaire,
septembre 1996)
18. Detailed design (Part A Dam, Lahmeyer, Volumes I and II, May 1996)
(Avant Projet detaille, Partie A Barrage, Volume 1 memoire technique annexes,
Volume 2 Plans, Lahmeyer, mai 1996)
19. Detailed design (Part B Dam, Lahmeyer, Volumes I and II, May 1996)
(Avant Projet detaille - Partie B Adduction, Station de pompage, Reservoir intermediaire,
Volume 1 memoires techniques et annexes, -Volume 2 Plans, Lahmeyer, janvier 1996)
20. Enpasol Reconnaissance, Final report, 11/96-02/97
(Reconnaissance Enpasol, Memoire definitif novembre 1996 -feivrier 1997)
21. Complementary geotechnic reconnaissance, Antea, 02/97
- 58 -



(Etude geotechnique complementaire, Anteafevrier 1997)
*Including electronic files
- 59 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                           Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Fmm Revd
P035673        2001 COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT                   0.00      66.70                             0.00      64.74       0.00       0.00
P050886        1999 PRIVATE IRRIGATION                                  0.00       5.20                             0.00       3.79       1.46       0.00
P000296        1998 AG SERVICES II                                      0.00      41.30                             0.00      27.50      15.89      11.58
P000304        1997 POST-PRIMARY EDUC.                                  0.00      26.00                             0.00      15.94      10.60       0.00
P000283        1997 MINING CAPACITY BUIL                                0.00      21.40                             0.00      15.23       8.72       0.00
P000297        1995 URBAN ENV                                           0.00      37.00                             0.00      12.54      13.90      13.93
P000287        1994 HEALTHlNUTRrTION                                    0.00      29.20                             0.00       2.93       3.10       2.84
P000308        1994 POPULATIONIAIDS CONT                                0.00      26.30                             0.00       4.29       4.76       0.0)
Total:        0.00     253.10                             0.00      146.96      58.43      28.38
- 60 -



BURKINA FASO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999                AEF FasoMine                    1.00     0.38     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                Ecobank-Burkina                 0.00     0.25     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.25    0.00    0.00
1998                SGBB                            0.00     0.38     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.38     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          1.00     1.01    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.63      0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
-61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BURKINA FASO: OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Sub-
POIVERTY ond SOCIAL                                    aurkcin.   Sahiara"      Low-
FaS       AfrIc,  Incomi         Development diamond'
Po9m069o9In mI0l.v*Ar lnlaSjI  1                                        42      2 dl?                   Life expectanc
(iI4P cer cao~~~1 (MISS me*lp#6. US$~~      2n9         Soo        410                               C
AM4P Ata   ah   US!fls                                      25         342        IRS
Av.raa  nua  rwb,194
Polation Ill)                               ~~~         ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~2 4  7 5  lI 
aorforce r%)                                             2.          .           3      GNP                                 Gross
per            .       "          primary
Most recent eatitnata (latest year avallable. 10*34901                                     capita                '          nmnilmant
PAVAflV, 1% 4040001l1a*lOi baiiW fe io#  ovafiliAoee
Urban oovulaion 1% of totlOWltoJ1                                       34~        31
tnlant.ov(Oe.OOOMv*blfhsj                   ~~~~        ~~~       ~~~~~~104  912  77.
ChI6 alnd lln(    C6*    Or5                                             2         4                  Access to safe water
IllIteracy (% olVPogufflgn aoe 15+)          ~~~        ~~ ~~77  38  38
Gross OIIIlSN .ornhln*nl t% o(chOOl4oa ppjgla~fl) 40)    75                               Burkina Faso
Male                                        48 ~ ~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ as  102  Low-income group
KEY EC*NOVIC IRATIS  o  LOIGTERM TREND$
1979  1*59   1*99       199*
Economic ratios'
f"p us$ billions)                               15       24          25         256
Gross dom#stlC inyestmeirticDP                                         W8.       27 2Trd
Grossa4omeabtkeavinos(GOP                        431        7.1       12.4       10.1
artsa national aaVloaiGf>                                             197        155r
Current account boIancolGOP  .                      .         .      .10,1      -12.3      Domestic    -
tetotAAt 0XVm;mAtsfWl                            fi.        117        602                  aig                           Investment
Total dahfJGfW                                   IR.A      Vf14       5? a       SJ 4       aig
Total: debt aervice/esooeta          ~~~~    ~~3.2  9 7   168
present value of dtIeors.                                             7,
Indebtedness
(*Vesaoe, annu&l rowth)
GIll'        .                     35        112~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  'f2  I                    Burkina Faso
GPoar caolta                            .      0.9       3.4         2.3        3 4                  -Lwicm   r
-Von" olonrla ano xarvnAs              .71        15       11o5        55         5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989        1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP %
(% of GDPI
Anricjltisre                                      42       315        3          32 1
Industrv                                         22.8      23.9       27.2       27.4      a
Mans,fartlurinen
Services                                         43.0      44.3       39.5       40.6       0
1    95   55   97    98   59
Private- connstmotion                            90) 9     75 9       73 0       75 5      -300
General aovernment consumot ion                  12.2      14.0       14.7       133                   -  GD]          0-GP
Imnnrt-; of nonds and services                  3.10 9     24 9       30 0       289 6
(averaoe annual arowth)                      178   1989-99           1998       1999       Growth ot exports and Imports(%
Anricssltsre                                      35         4         55 51        2      30
Indusjtry                                         4l        32        109    ~     0 
Manufacturino                                   2.3
Servir.es                                         4 5       3 5        4 5        51 I
94       96    97   96   99
Private consumotion                               2.9       3.2        6.8        4.7    .ns
G onaral oovetrnmAnt consumntion                  7 0       I 1        5, 2       4 5
Gross domestic investment                          ..       4.8        0.9        8. 8     30
lmonsr- of nonds and serviaes                     2 R9     1 9)        5 5        4 R                   Exports    -*-mports
rrossq national nro)diuct                                    a 5          3       5 2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country fin boldl comnared with its income-orouD averaoe. If data are missino. the diamond will
he incuamniete
- 62 -



Burkina Faso
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        30       A
Consumerpnces                                  ..    -0.3        1.0       2.3    20
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..       3.1       1.6    1C
Govemmentfinance                                                                   0
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                   96   97   98
Current revenue                                ..    10.0       14.4     16.1    -10
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.0        4.0       5.1                 GDP deflator    o  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -8.5    -10.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                             325       255
Cottaon                                                        206       136
Meat                                         ..       ..        46       48
Manufactures                                                            6005001
Total imports (ci)                             ..               639       600
Food                                                           143       74    250
Fuel and energy                               ..      ..        72       102          _                         9 __
Capital goods                                 ..      ..       196      221
92  94   9      6 9    8 9
Exoort once index (1995=1001                   ..       ..       98       101
Imoort onceindex 0995=100)                     ..       .       104       105                 *Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..       95        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS millions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (Y%)
Exports of goods and services                174      244       364       292
Imports of goods and services                491      587       803       760
Resource balance                            -316    -343        -439     -467
Net income                                     ..       ..      -12       -13
Net current transfers                         83      140       190       155
Current account balance                        ..       ..     -261      -326      10
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..      227       310
Changes in net reserves                        ..       ..       33        15    -15
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (USS millions)         ..    266        373       407
Conversion rate (DEC. localWUSS)            212.7   319.0      589.7    615.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         295      717      1,358     1,452
IBRD                                         0        0         ..G0 59
IDA                                         65      255       710       753             E: 130
Total debt service                             9       39         74
IBRD                                         0        0
IDA                                          0        3        10        11 
Composition of net resource flows                                                    D 347                        s: 710
Official grants                            137      116       214
Official creditors                          49       79
Private creditors                           13        3
Foreign direct investment                    2        0         0
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0                         C: 112
World Bank program
Commitments                                 14       63        15        30      A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               19       25        58        63      B - IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        1        11         6      r, - IMF                   r. -.qhn;t=n
Net flows                                   19       24        47        57
Interest payments                            0        2         5         5
Net transfers                               19       22        42        52
Development Economics                                                                                               9/13/00
-63 -



Additional
Annex 1 1
Letter of Sector Policy
MINISTRY OF THE ENVIRONMENT
AND WATER
GENERAL SECRETARIAT
DIRECTORATE OF HYDRAULICS
WATER POLICY AND STRATEGIES
IN BURKINA FASO
Part 3 - Main Outlines
-64 -



INTRODUCTION
The present document is a condensation of the National Water Policy forming part of the "Water
Policies and Strategies" adopted in Council of Ministers on September 10, 1998 (Decree No.
98-365/PRES/PM/MEE). Reference should therefore be made to the basic document for detailed
descriptions and analytical data.
1.    THE NATIONAL WATER POLICY
1.1    The main thrusts of the Letter of Intent on Sustainable Human Development Policy
(LIPDHD) andfight against poverty.
The major challenges facing Burkina Faso today, as defined in LIPDHD, are to increase the
income levels of its inhabitants and to expedite development both of its human resources and of its
production potential, in order that every one of its citizens may achieve:
*     Financial security deriving from access to a well-paying job.
*     Health security: access at low cost to medical care, both preventive and curative.
*     Food security: access to basic nutritional staples, including water.
*       .Environmental security deriving from preservation of a healthy environent.
*     Individual and political security.
Renewal of the country's economic and social policy is based on a number of principles, in particular:
iThe need to direct investment approaches and choices, as well as public expenditure,
toward goals that will produce the maximum positive impact on the key social indicators.
*     Protection of the environment.
The present water policy, which represents an essential support for responsible water resource
management through its focus on preserving the equilibrium of the physical environment and the aquatic
ecosystems, is based on these main thrusts of the Letter of Intent.
1.2    Objectives, principles, and approaches of the national water policy
1.2.1  General objective
The general objective is to contribute to sustainable development by offering appropriate solutions
to water-related problems, so that the water issue does not become an obstacle to socioeconomic
development.
1.2.2  Specific objectives
The specific objectives are as follows:
Objective No. 1   Provide sustainable means of meeting the water needs, both quantitative and
qualitative, of a growing population and a developing economy, while respecting the
aquatic ecosystems, in an environmental context unfavorable to replenishment and
mobilization of the water resource.
- 65-



Objective No. 2    Provide protection against aggressive water action: erosion, corrosion, flooding,
epidemics, dam breaches, etc.
Objective No. 3   Improve the public finances by lessening the burden represented by the water sector,
by sharing the cost fairly among all the stakeholders: the government agencies, the
local authorities [collectivites], and the consumers.
Objective No. 4    Prevent conflict in international water resource management.
1.2.3 Principles
Burkina Faso's national water policy will be implemented in line with the provisions of the
country's constitution and legislation, and with the nine internationally agreed principles of water
management contained in conventions that the country has signed or ratified:
*     equity
*     subsidiarity
*     harmonious regional development
*     watershed management
*     balanced water resource management
*     protection of consumers and of nature
*     the "user pays" [preleveur-payeur] principle
*     the "polluter pays" principle
*     the participation principle
1.3   Strategies
In light of the development objectives and the water management and use principles listed above,
ten strategies have been formulated on the basis of all the objectives, principles, and measures set down in
this national water policy document.
1.    Adopt the watershed approach as the appropriate framework for water resource planning,
mobilization, management, and protection.
2.    Promote interregional and intemational cooperation.
3.    Increase the efficiency and management capacity of the agencies involved in implementing the
national water policy.
4.    Implement the sanitation strategy and resource protection measures.
5.    Install a water quality surveillance system. Foster the emergence of a local corps of experts able to
design, execute, operate and maintain water monitoring stations and to reliably interpret the data
recorded there.
6.    Introduce a tax policy providing incentives to consumer management groups to take over as much
responsibility as possible for the maintenance of hydraulic structures.
-66 -



7.     Give priority to the rehabilitation and consolidation of hydraulic structures with a view to obtaining
maximum investment yield or efficiency.
8.     Seek to obtain maximum investment yield and/or efficiency.
9.     Seek the lowest-cost solutions for the maintenance and sustainability of systems and works
(potable water supply, sewerage, dams, monitoring systems, etc.).
10.    Lessen water-related risks through better knowledge of those risks and execution of preventive
measures; improve crisis management.
1.4    Priorides of the nadonal water policy
The "potable water" use of the resource, vital to the people's health and to the maintenance of their
dignity, in all cases takes priority above the other uses.
The development of water systems for this and other purposes must observe the need to respect the
biological equilibria of the different ecosystems, in compliance with Articles 14 and 29 of the Constitution.
To anticipate crisis situations, reference will be made to regularly updated records of the water
resources available when such situations occur and to records of the impact on those resources of offtakes
and discharges at such times.
The other uses need to be ranked on the basis of specific local requirements, based on principles of
equity, subsidiarity, and, if possible, participation.
1.5    Development of the legislative and regulatoryframework
The central government departments are responsible for formulating and organizing application of
the regulations. Following are their principal activities under this heading.
Improvement of the consistency, clarity, and facility of application of the regulatory provisions,
given Burkina Faso's sociocultural context.
Reformulation of certain regulations, introduction of any necessary supplements, and their
combined issue in the form of a single code.
Improvement of regulatory provisions governing the preparation and implementation of crisis
plans. These provisions will set out the warning thresholds for the activation of exceptional
measures, and will name the authorities responsible for water control and distribution in times of
crisis.
*      Preparation of attractive publications to inform the population about the regulations.
*      Formulation of technical documents at the ministry or provincial level, setting out or updating the
standards or modalities for defining objectives and stakeholder participation procedures.
*      Creation of a department to enforce the laws and regulations in the areas of water, forests, fauna,
fisheries, quarries and mines, and pollution.
- 67 -



*      Strengthening of the resources and supervisory powers of the decentralized departments of the
water ministry through improved coordination of the various stakeholders' actions on the ground.
1.6    Decentralization and stakeholders
Establishment of the institutional framework and delegation of responsibility to local stakeholders
are part of the ongoing decentralization process.
To facilitate achievement of the objectives set and application of the principles of the water policy,
a more functional institutional framework will gradually be established.
1.6.1  Decentralization
Water resource management and the investment and maintenance policies governing the
rehabilitation, development, or construction of systems (structures, networks, equipment, etc.) are heavily
influenced by the physical and socioeconomic characteristics of the particular local environment. It is
therefore important that the relevant management strategies and systems be designed and implemented by
actors having a good knowledge of the local conditions.
(Principle of subsdiarity)
Priority investments (rehabilitation, upgrading of existing systems, new systems of mobilization,
operation, monitoring, and protection of the resource, etc.), preventive action to ward off water-related
risks, will be identified as a result of consultations among the local authorities, the public or private
contracting bodies, and the donors.
The local communities will participate in the definition of priorities through their representatives in
the local decentralized administrative units (villages, sectors, neighborhoods, communes, departments,
provinces) or through associations or NGOs.
The decentralized departments of the ministry responsible for water management, in close
relationship with the local authorities, associations, and the professional entities concemed, are in charge of
implementing the national water policy and translating it into practical actions compatible with the regional
context.
Implementation of this policy will of necessity give rise to new tasks and responsibilities. It is
therefore important to develop the operational capacities of the administrative units concerned, in particular
of the regional departments. To that end, the precise needs for aid or assistance with decentralization will
be identified by all of the partners concemed, and a program will be prepared and implemented over the
medium and long term. Training programs for the private sector will be prepared and implemented.
1.6.2  Stakeholders
1.6.2.1  The public institutions
1.6.2.1.1  The Technical Committee for Water
Set up by Law No. 014/96/ADP, dated May 23rd 1996, which reorganized agricultural and land
- 68 -



tenure systems in Burkina Faso, the Technical Committee for Water is responsible for proposing basic
development options for the water resource. The composition, functions, and operating procedures of the
Committee may be updated or identified, should the need arise.
Implementation of the water policy will require tradeoffs among the ministries, whether in the area
of resource allocation or in order to integrate environmental concerns into the policies of other sectors.
Such tradeoffs and all exchanges of information among the parties will take place within the
Technical Committee for Water. It is essential that this committee seek the opinions of experts before
reaching a decision.
1.6.2.1.2   The ministries
The ministry responsible for water management will organize interministerial coordination in that
area and handle all of the policing activities in the sector. It will ensure better linkages among the functions
of the different departments and thereby heighten administrative efficiency. It will also promote
improvements to the legal and regulatory framework.
It is also responsible for handling tradeoffs and promoting consistency in application of the
principles of harmonious regional development and the protection of consumers and of nature. It will be
responsible for preparing an action plan for implementation of the water policy.
In liaison with the other ministries, the local authorities, consumers, and the private sector, the
ministry responsible for water management will handle the setting up of water resource management bodies
with different assignments covering, for example, public potable water distribution works (water supply
point management committee, ONEA board of directors, etc.), mobilization (reservoir management bodies,
etc.), water pollution control, and water and watershed protection.
1.6.2.1.3   Watershed agencies
To apply the principles of equity, balanced management, and participation it is necessary to have a
particular institutional organization that will allow participation by the various stakeholders (the State,
local authorities, consumers, scientist, or expert associations, the private sector) in the process of deciding
on and implementing programs. This will facilitate supervision of the channeling of public resources in the
water sector.
For the successful application of these principles it will be necessary to form groups of nine
stakeholders, adequately structured to be represented by competent and influential individuals on the boards
of the watershed agencies.
Application of the watershed management principle will be phased in through the establishment of
four watershed agencies throughout the country (Nakanbe, Mouhoun, Niger, Como6).
1.6.2.1.4  Training and research bodies
The work of the research agencies will be directed toward the development of research topics
related to the search for water within the framework of the country's prevailing conditions.
1.6.2.2  The local authorities
- 69 -



Within the framework of the country's decentralization policy, the responsibilities of the local
authorities (villages, communes, departments, provinces) in the area of water management will be clarified
and standardized.
To obtain the most successful results from this approach, i.e. local authority participation, certain
principles for action will be observed.
1.6.2.3  The associations
Important public funds that are committed to attain water policy objectives will trigger market
development of assets and services. New perspectives will be proposed for the development of private
sector (up to now marginal) if existing conditions are prone to fair competition.
Development of techniques in water management and maintenance as well as realization of works
by Burkinabe's firms could contribute to jobs creation and reduction of operation and maintenance costs.
In particular, in rural area or secondary cities, private enterprises that have the appropriate
equipment and the technical capacities could participate in the management and maintenance of works
financed by communities and water services users.
1.6.2.4  The private sector
The substantial volume of public funds committed for achievement of the objectives of the water
policy will trigger the development of a goods and services market. New prospects will be offered to
develop the (up to now marginal) domestic private sector, provided conditions are favorable to fair
competition. The development of trades in water management and maintenance and the execution of
large-scale works by national companies will contribute to job creation and help reduce construction and
maintenance costs.
In particular, in the rural areas and in the secondary centers, private enterprises possessing the
necessary facilities and technical capabilities will be able to take part in project management and
maintenance with financing from the local authorities or the consumer groups using the facilities.
1.7    Water resource management and protection
Chief among the water management and protection functions performed at different levels by the
different stakeholders are:
*      Policy: organizing stakeholder consultations conceming geographic management units, policy
formulation, investment choices, and the identification of quantitative and qualitative objectives.
*      Regulatory and institutional framework: formulation of the regulations and their application,
monitoring and supervision of actions taken (water police), organization of functions, setting up of
management bodies, coordination of interventions, contracting among stakeholders.
Diagnostic study: data on existing water resources, studies of environments and uses, monitoring
of the condition of the resource, recourse to expertise for assistance in decisionmaking, and
definition of standards, reference values, and water condition assessment systems.
- 70 -



*     Own resources: adjustment of behaviors through taxation, withholding adequate funds to finance a
program.
*     Resource allocation: development of action plans or programs laying down the rules for allocating
human and financial resources and aiming to adjust behaviors and techniques through the aid
policy.
*     International cooperation: development of cooperation among neighboring countries for the
management of international waters.
*     Quantitative management: minimum flow requirement for waterways, water storage management,
regulation of fluctuations in water table level, issue of construction permits, water regulations,
facilities management bodies.
*     Qualitative management: definition of quality objectives, guidelines for actions to protect water
resources and prevent pollution at the source, efficient operation of water facilities, advisory
assistance on adopting sound practices, awareness of the impact on water of other sectors (waste
disposal, transportation, agriculture, tourism, etc.).
*     Preservation and management of wetlands and of the habitats of species with cycles linked to an
aquatic environment, and flora and fauna management in such environments.
*     Support for research: development and dissemination of appropriate technologies, search for and
implementation of good environmental practices.
*     Crisis management: management of water-related crises (floods, droughts, accident-generated
pollution, etc.), advance and preventive information for the population, flood announcements and
warnings.
Attention to the environment, in particular to water management in other sectors, so that the
appropriate synergies may be achieved.
Water information and communication systems: setting up and management of a database,
documentation management, dissemination of updated information on water, transmission of
communications about water to the public at large or targeted populations, in liaison with the
media.
*     Policy and evaluation, etc.
2.    SECTOR POLICIES AND STRATEGIES
The water policy and strategies document covers all of Burkina Faso's sectors of economic
development. It will therefore cover water policy in the sectors of potable water supply and irrigation and
in the other sectors of the national economy dependent on water supply for their development.
2.1    Potable water supply
2.1.1  The new potable water supply policy
- 71 -



It is essential to overhaul the existing approaches to this policy. Development of a potable water
supply strategy calls for measures responding to real needs and taking account of the capacity and
willingness of the different categories of the population to pay for the services required.
A participatory approach will be adopted for the prioritization process. This represents a new
departure, since in the past the most frequent approach was the stereotyped one. Short- and medium-term
action plans will be drawn up based on a forward analysis of the sector. The government agencies in
charge of planning, representatives of civil society, and the local authorities will be closely associated with
development of the proposed strategies. This approach is designed to respond to the dual concern of
developing local capacities and identifyuing needs more clearly.
2.1.2 Potable water supply - specific objectives and measures
The specific objectives and measures concerning potable water supply and related to the
application of the water policy are guided by the following principal concerns:
-      Planning and satisfaction of potable water needs, application of the principle of equity,
responsibility in managing the facilities, water quality protection, increased technological choices and cost
reduction.
Reaching financial equilibrium of the urban and semi-urban water sub-sector by 2006
-      Support to private sector development, strengthening of the potable water supply information
system, promotion of women's activities, increased coordination, human resources development, evaluation.
-      Continuous strategic thinking on the sub-sector's contribution toward national economic
competitiveness.
2.1.3 Potable water supply and community size
The new policy for supplying potable water to the country's inhabitants is three-pronged, to take
into account sizes of communities and their technical and financial capacities.
2.1.3.1 Potable water supply in the urban centers
The purpose of urban water systems is to meet the effective demand for water in urban centers,
medium-sized cities, and secondary centers with over 10,000 inhabitants.
ONEA is responsible for developing the urban water systems. In such capacity, it handles the
construction and management (operation and maintenance) of the infrastructure needed for potable water
supply and wastewater and sewage disposal in urban and semiurban areas. A Performance Agreementn
between the Govemment and ONEA specify contractual relationships of both parties.
2.1.3.2 Potable water supply in the semiurban and secondary centers
The purpose of semiurban water systems is to meet the effective demand for water in centers with
- 72 -



over 2,000 inhabitants which are not covered by the water distribution company.
At present, some 800 secondary centers have been registered (INSD census). One hundred such
centers are already provided with systems under specific projects.
2.1.3.3  Potable water supply in rural areas and villages
The purpose of village water systems is to meet the household water requirements of rural areas
with fewer than 2,000 inhabitants.
The policy in this area will focus more closely on making the users responsible for maintenance
and renewal of the systems.
In line with the principle of harmonious development among the regions, particular attention will be
paid to the correction of regional disparities where water supply facilities are concerned.
2.1.4  Specific objectives depending on community size
The following specific objectives and measures are recommended depending on the size of the
community concemed. Three different levels are targeted for potable water supply: urban centers,
semiurban centers, and villages.
2.1.4.1  Potable water supply measures in the urban centers
-      Observe quality standards for the water distributed.
-      Ensure that surface water intended for drinking is routinely treated before being distributed.
-      Over the short term, strengthen the operational capacity of the company responsible for potable
water distribution, on the administrative and financial levels.
-      Improve long-term productivity, aiming for the most cost-efficient solutions in the equipping and
management of the centers.
-      Require the conclusion of State/public enterprise performance plans.
-      Take into account the needs of the livestock sector when identifying needs in the periurban areas.
2.1.4.2  Potable water supply in the secondary centers
-      Create a stimulating environment for the concession of physical facilities management.
-      Establish a performance plan to accompany any delegation of management of the public potable
water service.
-      Promote rural electrification and the use of photovoltaic equipment.
-      Study the technological options for ensuring sustainable and continuous service and simple
maintenance at a low operating cost. A combination of the existing technological solutions will be worked
out to meet each level of service demanded (network densification, etc.).
2.1.4.3  Potable water supply measures for villages
-      Strengthen coverage of potable water needs.
-      Give priority to the rehabilitation and consolidation of existing water supply points.
-      Harmonize beneficiary contributions to the initial investment.
- 73 -



-      Envision the effective assumption by the beneficiaries of the costs of maintenance and renewal of
pumping equipment [moyens d'exhaure].
-      Promote the use of photovoltaic equipment and solar energy.
-      Encourage local manufacture of certain parts of pumps. Encourage interconnection through simple
water supply systems of localities and neighborhoods whenever feasible.
-      Upgrade old and crumbling supply points.
2.2    National water policy and the other sectors of the economy
2.2.1  The public health sector
2.2.1.1  Planning
-      Identify high-risk areas for the various waterbome diseases.
-      Identify priority areas for the installation of potable water supply points, taking into account areas
at high risk for disease, in particular areas targeted by the guinea worm control programs.
-      Ensure greater collaboration among the designers of water projects to include preventive public
health measures, and pinpoint  clearly those areas that should receive priority in this respect.
2.2.1.2  Water for drinking and domestic use
Help devise preventive measures to avoid contamination of reservoirs and water supply points, in
liaison with the water point managers. Cany out epidemiological studies in association with the studies on
the bacteriological quality of wastewater as a source of drinking water, to assess the public health impact
of contaminated water.
2.2.1.3  Project impact
-      Carry out scientific studies to monitor the public health impact of the new water mobilization
developments, to facilitate the  planning of future preventive measures.
-      Take steps to prevent harmful trickle-down effects on public health of the actions taken and
investments made in the water sector.
-      Carry out all the necessary works to prevent the spread of waterborne diseases in the neighborhood
of the reservoirs.
2.2.1.4  Design of sanitation and irrigation systems
-      Take steps, together with the local authorities, to boost public health: cleaning of stormwater and
wastewater drainage systems,  etc.
-      Prepare for studies to identify actions and equipment to protect the population against diseases
resulting from the spread of       wastewater during periods of heavy rainfall.
-      Oversee improvement of drainage systems in the irrigation districts, and of equipment designed to
limit the spread of disease.
2.2.1.5  Health and hygiene education
Send appropriate messages concerning the prevention of waterborne diseases in the vicinity of
- 74 -



reservoirs.
-      Sensitize urban dwellers to the need to prevent water pollution, in particular through the
publicizing and enforcement of regulations regarding the construction of plumbing facilities and drains in
their homes.
-      Promote sensitization campaigns to encourage families to adopt good hygiene practices.
-      Inform the people of the risks of using any watercourses downstream of urban dumps (cholera
prevention
2.2.2 Education
The education sector can help protect water resources and enable young people to gain a better
understanding of water-related problems.
It will be necessary to establish links among the ministries responsible for education and the water
ministry, to promote joint action in this area. The following activities could be developed:
2.2.3   Agriculture
2.2.3.1   Water policy in this sector
Agricultural irrigation is a subsector that supports agricultural production. With Burkina Faso's
particular weather conditions, the irrigation policy helps to strengthen food security through the extension
of irrigation facilities, diversification and intensification of production, and improved natural resource
management.
2.2.3.2  Specific objectives and measures
In this sector, the following objectives and measures are recommended:
-      Planning..
-      Security of land tenure.
-      Allow private individuals to benefit from publicly financed irrigation projects, to foster
intensive production.
-      Investments.
-      Ensure an economic and financial return on the investments.
-      Operation
- Reduce operating costs through optimum management and rehabilitation of the
physical facilities.
- Promote the setting up of resistant irrigation systems and of water-saving cultivation
systems.
- Give priority to lowland farming and gravity irrigation, these being the least costly
modes of production for the farmers.
- Promote free choice of cropping patterns in order to obtain the maximum return on
operation of the irrigation systems.
- Expedite government withdrawal by allocating greater responsibility to farmers.
- Apply the pricing policy more rigorously, and ensure collection of the fees.
Development of the private sector and consultation
- Create jobs on farms and in irrigation projects, thereby reducing the flight from the
- 75 -



land.
- Encourage agribusiness and agroindustrial farming.
- Promote improved consultation with the other sectors (livestock, fisheries, energy,
environment, etc.).
2.2.4   Livestock sector
2.2.4.1   Water policy in the sector
The objective of the water policy is to make unused pasturelands more accessible, so that the herd
may be better spread out over the available natural resources.
Those responsible for developing a national policy for pastoral water supply systems should take
the following three factors in to account: herd size, water availability, and location of pasturelands during
the different seasons.
2.2.4.2   Specific objectives and measures
The following objectives and measures are proposed for this sector:
-      Planning
-      Awareness of existing infrastructure, herds, and available resources
-      Land policy and conflict prevention
-      Herder organization and financing of operations.
2.2.5  Fisheries sector
2.2.5.1   Water policy in the sector
Fisheries development is closely linked to the development of surface water mobilization works.
Consequently, water policy will aim to create as favorable an environment for developing this sector,
through:
-      Planning, consultation.
-      Information on the fisheries situation.
-      Existing works.
-      New works.
-      Fees.
-      Water quality, fish habitats and circulation
2.2.6 Energy sector
2.2.6.1   Water policy in the sector
Surface water mobilization makes a substantial contribution to development of the electricity
sector. The Kompian,a and Bagre dams use some 1700 million m3 of water a year for their turbines.
2.2.6.2. Specific objectives and measures
- 76 -



Development of the energy sector is partially dependent on surface water resources. The specific objectives
are:
-      Planning.
-      Contribute to development of the master electrification plan.
-      Awareness of the hydroelectric potential.
-      Pumping of water [exhaure de l'eau] and electrification.
-      Contribute to rural electrification through photovoltaic and thermal pumping facilities.
-      Protective measures.
2.2.7  Mining and industrial sector
2.2.7.1   Specific objectives and measures
As mining operations develop, there will be a growing need for substantial volumes of both surface
and underground water. The need for water at the extraction sites will be felt right away. The goldwashing
sites are located in areas far removed from any water supply points, and thousands of goldwashers are thus
without access to water.
Questions arise concerning:
-      Household water supply for the mining towns and extraction sites.
-      Adequate water supply for ore treatment.
-      Monitoring and treatment of pollution (hydrographic system and industrial waste).
The following measures are recommended:
-      Highlight water needs and the necessary water protection measures.
-      Ensure that the studies on developing mining potential include a section covering water
resource mobilization   and protection, in the form of an environmental impact assessment.
-      Grant concessions to the extraction companies covering water use for their mining
operations.
2.2.8  Fauna sector
2.2.8.1 Water policy for the sector
Some countries count fauna among their basic sources of income. In Burkina Faso, wildlife helps
to increase the income of people living in areas close to the parks, and it also helps keep the national budget
in equilibrium. Water policy in this sector will be geared to maintaining conditions favorable to
regeneration of the fauna potential, with particular attention to:
-      Quality of grazing.
-      Tranquillity of habitat.
-      Permanent availability of water.
2.2.8.2  Specific objectives and measures.
Following are the specific objectives in this area:
-      Guarantee permanent availability of water in the parks and reserves.
-      Contribute to an increase in fishery products.
-      Lay down specific criteria for providing drinking water for wildlife in the parks.
-      Construct and maintain the necessary facilities for each park or reserve.
-      Support the park managers in waterworks maintenance.
- 77 -



2.2.9 Tourism and recreation
The presence of reservoirs, particularly close to the large cities, can offer an opportunity for
developing such recreational activities as swimming, fishing, and water sports. However, the risk of
waterborne diseases could prevent the development of some of those activities.
Ouagadougou, January 11, 2001
The Minister Delegated to the Minister
of the Environment and Water, with
Responsibility for Water
(signed) Theodule Houonne DA
-78 -



Additional
Annex 12
Institutional Assessment
The management of ONEA is structured around five central functions and three regional
departments. The central functions are: (i) general management, to which the management control unit
reports directly; (ii) finance, in charge of finance, accounting, information systems and sales policy; (iii)
human resources, in charge of all personnel matters; (iv) technical management, in charge of planning,
implementation of the investment programs in urban water, operation of the water production and
distribution systems; and (v) sanitation in charge of sanitation planning, implementation of sanitation
programs and operation and maintenance of sewered systems. Three regional departments are in charge of
the day-to-day operation of existing production and distribution systems and commercial operations: (a)
Ouagadougou urban and suburban areas; (b) Bobo Dioulasso area; and (c) other secondary centers
comprising other smaller urban centers, supplied by ONEA. This new structure reduced the organizational
units from 122 to 75 and achieved a reduction in personnel as well as in operating expenses.
Staffing and Training. ONEA's staff decreased from a high of 683 by the end of 1989 to 610
staff in 1993 to 535 in 2000. This was the result of a comprehensive assessment of ONEA's mission and
organizational structure, which established a new organizational chart. While the number of middle level
managers decreased over the same time by about 10 percent, senior management positions increased
slightly from an average 21 positions in 1990 to 23 positions by the end of 1995. With the execution of
the proposed project, ONEA will increase the number of its staff with special skills required to operate the
new facilities. The Service Contract and the training program will be instumental in providing staff with
the necessary skills.
Furthermore, ONEA completed in late 1995 a comprehensive social audit of its staff by matching
its staffing requirements and profiles with the qualifications of existing staff. The audit also established a
new salary structure, a career development program and entry level requirements for each position. The
audit thus provides ONEA with a comprehensive personnel management tool as it will in future be possible
not only to match positions with available staff but also to implement career development plans.
A further result of this audit was a reassessment of ONEA's training activities. The importance of
training is best shown by the result of the training activities in ONEA's training center. The center was
constructed with German bilateral assistance, which also funded development of courses and provided
trainers. Over the past five years (on the average) 30 training courses were attended annually by 300
trainees, providing between 25,000 and 30,000 hours of training, with an average of about 150 hours per
course. The courses are of high quality and have helped to overcome the shortage of skilled water system
operators, meter readers, bill collectors, accounting staff and office support staff. ONEA's training needs
in the future will be achieved by a combination of training by equipment suppliers, through in-country
training and abroad. The training program (which forms part of the proposed project) will consist of
training offered at ONEA's training center and also through attending well defined familiarization and
training programs abroad for senior staff. The training program should therefore continue to improve on a
long-term basis the competence of ONEA's staff, particularly in view of the complexities and requirements
of the new water production and distribution system.
- 79 -



ANNEX 12 A
TERMS OF REFERENCE - SERVICE CONTRACT, CAPACITY BUILDING AND TRAINING
Introduction
Assistance programs, financed over the last seven years by bilateral agencies (AFD, GTZ and
DANIDA), have had a great impact in developing ONEA's organizational structure and its system of
technical operations but had a relatively limited impact on financial, accounting and commercial operations.
The proposed project will result in the operation of a much larger and more complex water production and
distribution system. Therefore, further assistance that would be different in scope from those in previous
technical assistance programs is required. This program, which is part of the proposed project, would
build within ONEA the expertise for monitoring the execution of the proposed project and continue to
support ONEA's technical, financial, commercial and accounting operations by providing training of local
staff in the application of appropriate technologies and procedures.
ONEA has decided to implement a service contract and a training program in utility management
and operations with an experienced water operator to run its commercial operations and an accounting firm
for financial management of ONEA. The following activities would form part of the training program: (a)
comprehensive program of training and familiarization with the requirements of operation and
maintainance; (b) regular preventive maintenance; (c) leak detection and repair program; (d) reduction of
operating costs; (e) water conservation program, including incentives for domestic consumers to control
water use and water losses; (f) utility cost accounting and fnancial management; and (g) utility
mnanagement including asset management.
Objective of the Service Contract
The primary objective of the Service Contrat is to assist ONEA in:
a)    strengthening its commercial and financial capacity;
b)    introducing a modem water utility cost accounting and information management system;
c)    training staff in the application of all programs to be developed under the service contract; and
d)    laying the groundwork for its future corporate development, to ensuring continued improvements of
the commercial and    financial performance.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Service Contractor (SC) will be responsible for performing
the following tasks:
a)   program of meter reading, billing and collection, including management of accounts receivable;
b)   implementation of a water conservation program, including incentives for domestic consumers to
control water use and water losses;
c)   outline effective customer service, including charter customer service providing functional link to
consumers;
d)    design and operation of a utility cost accounting system;
e)   design and operation of a water utility information system (in accordance with an integrated
computerization strategy) through an appropriate computer-based management and administrative
systems, that would provide management with information on control, budgeting, cost accounting,
- 80 -



commercial operations, purchasing, and stocks;
f)   develop and implement an asset management system  covering titling, registration, valuation,
maps/plans, and insurance;
g)   develop programs and processes to ensure internal communication among all members of the
company, facilitating effective downward, upward and lateral flow of information;
h)   develop an integrated planning capacity to ensure that investments are cost effective, affordable and
correspond to the parameters of the business plan; and
i)   training program in utility management, maintenance, operational control financial management,
utility accounting, covered through training at ONEA's training center and at other appropriate
training centers, including familiarization assignments.
The detailed assignments are the following:
Improve the efficiency of meter reading, billing, and revenue collections:
a.   Develop and implement programs to collect accounts receivable that are turned over to collection
and reduce account receivables;
b.   Develop, supervise and direct programs to identify illegal connections, and disconnet them and
enforce penalties;
c.   Develop, supervise and direct programs to update the database of connections and to classify the use
in accordance with current tariff definitions;
d.   Develop, supervise and direct the use of computerized administrative systems to enforce collection of
overdue accounts. Provide hardware and softwares and train employees;
e.     Develop a unified billing and collection system for the service area;
f.     Create and implement a utility based code of accounts for the service area.
g.   Identify support facilities and equipment and develop administrative support ( transportation,
including specialized vehicles; communications systems, space; and repair tools and equipment,
meter testing and repair space and equipment, etc.);
h.   Develop and implement computerized materials and maintenance management systems, obtain
hardware and softwares, and train employees; and
i.   Identify necessary spare parts, materials and connection equipment, obtain parts, materials and
equipment, and establish an inventory system for storage and replacement of connection equipement
and meters (as a part of the materials management system).
Improve the efficiency of the customer service and public relations:
a.   Develop and establish a customer service system and train the employees involved in responding to
customer complaints, inquiries and any other interface with customers;
b.   Develop and establish a public information program to educate the public as to the importance of
water supply and wastewater collection and treatment to the population in terms of public health;
c.     Develop and implement a management training program consisting of elements of management,
personnel management, financial management, budgeting, planning and controlling;
d.     Develop and implement a training program to provide technical operations and maintenance
training to all water system  operators and maintenance workers;
e.     Review current administrative systems, address the need to update and improve, develop and
implement updated           computerized administrative systems, obtain hardware and softwares, and
train the employees;
f.    Develop and establish a comprehensive occupational safety program, and provide safety training;
and
g.     Develop and establish an emergency operations plan, train water/wastewater system employees
and conduct mock drills as    training for the implementation of emergency actions.
- 81 -



Implementation
Implementation of the Service Contract should be structured to achieve the greatest degree of
involvement by ONEA and its staff. During the first four months, ONEA and the service contract operator
will jointly perform the different functions. At the end of this period, the Service Contract Operator will
confirm or modify the contractual performance indicators and the targets based on its assessment and
present its action plan to carry out its activities. Commercial operations and financial management will be
under the full responsibility of the service contract operator for the next 44 months. During this period, the
operator will ensure skills transfer to staff of ONEA. For the next 12 months , most of the activities will be
undertaken by ONEA's staff under the supervision of the service contract operator.
An essential element of the service contract operator's work is training of ONEA's staff in the
fields of commercial operations, accounting and financial management. While most of this should be done
on the job, in direct daily contact with the Operator's personnel, IDA credit includes resources for specific
training for key personnel inside and outside of Burkina Faso. Defining training needs and arranging for
training opportunities will be a cooperative task between the Operator and ONEA. Prior to embarking on a
training program, the Operator would have to define the scope of the training program by identifying
training needs, duration, cost and location. Once defined, the training program should then be reviewed
with ONEA prior to its implementation. In order to derive the maximum benefits from the training,
objectives, and progress of the training program should be assessed every twelve months, so that corrective
action, if needed, can be taken.
Training and Capacity building
A training program developed by the SC as well as by ONEA will include water utility
management, operational and financial skills, and ensure that these skills are transferred to ONEA's staff.
In addition to on-the-job skill transfer, the SC will arrange for more formal training in Burkina Faso at
ONEA's training center and through assignments abroad.
The SC and ONEA will arrange fornal training in Burkina Faso for staff (at all levels) in all
aspects of water utility management and operations. It is envisaged that the SC will undertake urgent
training of key personnel relating to the initial components of the improvement program and the
management of the components before the main training begins. This will be separately agreed upon with
ONEA.
The SC will arrange for formal and informal on-the-job training for ONEA' staff at its
headquarters or in other places. After consulting with ONEA, the SC will select staff in commercial
operations and finance, from mid-level of the organization who are thought to be most likely to gain from
the experience and produce the greatest benefit to the agency. The selected staff members will each
undertake a continuous period of training at a time to be agreed upon with ONEA. Part of this training will
be common to all candidates and part specific to their own disciplines. The aim of the training will be to
build upon the knowledge and skills possessed by the trainees and to show them best practices in water
utility management.
Staffing of the Service Contract Operator
The Service Contract Operator's team will be composed of three long-term experts and a number of
short-term specialists. It is an essential quality that members of the team use their skills and experience to
seek the most appropriate way in which they can assist ONEA.
Each member of SC's team should be a leading professional in his or her sphere with considerable
experience in a water utility. Overseas experience will be particularly valuable and a good command of the
French language is essential. Equally important is the ability and willingness to transfer their experience
- 82 -



and knowledge to others and the flexibility to adapt to different cultural backgrounds.
The following experts would form part of the SC:
a)    Water Utility Management Expert;
b)    Commercial operations Specialist;
d)    Financial Expert;
g)     Short-Term Specialists/Trainers.
The detailed tasks, requirements, and timing of the required experts are described below.
Water Utility Management Expert
He/She would lead the team and coordinate the assignments of each team member, besides
providing his operational expertise to ONEA. Specifically he/she would:
Prepare (with the staff of ONEA and with the members of the team) a comprehensive conmmercial and
financial improvement plan that would define actions, schedules to reach performance targets and
including, inter alia:
i) program for reduction and management of accounts receivable;
ii) outline for effective customer service;
iii) design, implementation and operation of a utility accounting system, including cost accounting;
iv) design, implementation and operation of a water utility information system (in accordance with
integrated computerization strategy), appropriate computer-based management and administrative
systems, that would provide management with information on control, budgeting, cost accounting,
cormmercial operations, purchasing, stocks;
v) develop and implement an asset management system covering titling, registration, valuation,
maps/plans, and insurance;
vi) develop programs and processes to ensure optimal internal communication among all members of
the agency, facilitating effective downward, upward and lateral flow of information;
vii) design and implementation of a human resource development program, including programs for
recruitment and training, advancement, and remuneration for the commercial and financial
departments; and
viii) outline of training program covering training within the institutions, at appropriate training
centers and through familiarization assignments.
The Water Utility Management Expert will be professionally qualified and have extensive
experience in all aspects of the business of a water utility, part of which will have been gained overseas.
He/she will have demonstrated particular ability in working with others to achieve objectives and will have
been involved in development and training.
As this expert will lead the team, he/she will have to be in place at the commencement of the
program, estimated to start on August 31, 2001.
Commercial Operations Specialist
Successful execution of the tasks of this expert is critical in achieving the envisaged improvements.
In his/her assignment, he/she would be responsible for improving meter reading's efficiency, billing and
revenue collection. He/She will be responsible for:
i)   helping ONEA in all matters relating to the efficient operation of a water utility, in particular, the
organization and management of the district offices and central facilities, customer database,
- 83 -



customer registration, the billing system (meter reading, billing, collection); and
ii)   assisting with development and implementation of the training program.
The Commercial Operations Specialist will be professionally qualified and have extensive
experience in all aspects of the operation of a water utility, part of which will have been gained overseas.
Financial Expert
The detailed tasks of this expert are described below:
i)   provide advice on all matters relating to the financial management of an efficient, cost effective
utility;
ii)   assist ONEA in the implementation of all steps required to improve all aspects of its financial
operations and management;
iii) review loan covenants and other requirements of any lending agreement, and advise on the
appropriate course of action;
iv)   assist the water utility management expert with the development of the financial aspects of the
information strategy;
v)   assist with the training program;
vi)  assist ONEA in designing and implementing a comprehensive computer based cost accounting
system;
vii)  ensure that systems are developed and implemented and will ensure financial monitoring and control,
including procurement, payment of contractors, disbursements from loans; and
viii) assist with the training program.
The Finance Expert will be professionally qualified and have extensive experience in all aspects of
water utility financial management.
Award of the Service Contract has already taken place. The Operator will procure goods and
services under the OIR using the World Bank procurement procedures, except for the softwares needed to
run the commercial and financial operations that will be procured on a sole source basis.
Timetable
The key dates for performing this assignment are:
a)     SC contract signed          March 15, 2001
b)     SC start of assignment      August 31, 2001
Reporting
The SC will prepare quarterly and annual reports, beginning December 31, 2001.
24.   In preparing these reports it should be kept in mind that these reports must be concise, and not be
prepared at the expense of project execution. However, essential information should be provided, such as
events explained that led to a delay in the implementation of the service contract.
- 84 -



Additional
Annex 13
Governmental Environmental and Social Management Plan (GEMP)
The Government of Burkina Faso, as requested by World Bank internal regulations, undertook a
full Environmental Assessment of this project. First, a draft Environmental Assessment was prepared and
presented by an international consulting company acceptable to the Bank, which was later finalized by
integrating several concerns of the World Bank (e.g. lack of analysis of alternatives).
Alternatives Considered. The water supply for the city of Ouagadougou now comes from a
combination of four dams (three badly polluted reservoirs) and various deep wells, which are insufficient
for needs of the current population, and for the future needs.
Various studies have been undertaken over the last ten years to examine all the possible
alternatives to alleviate the water problems in Ouagadougou. In 1984, Lahmeyer International examined
four major alternatives: deep wells, an existing dam on the Bagre River, but with a transmission line of
135 km (production costs per m3 of FCFA 320), a dam on the Mouhoun River (156 km away and with a
production costs per m3 of FCFA 285), and a dam on the Nakambe River at Ziga (50 km away and with a
production costs per m3 of FCFA 134). Their studies demonstrated that, technically and economically, the
Ziga Dam on the Nakambe is the best altemative.
Further, various studies have been undertaken of alternative designs of the Ziga dam in order to
reduce the environmental, social and economic impacts. The engineering consortium TRACTEBEL
presented the EA in 1995, confirming the choice of alternatives and examining the environment and
socio-economic consequences that required remedial actions. Subsequently, the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN) reviewed the efficacy of the remedial measures proposed in the various
design studies.
Approach. Given the magnitude of the potential social and environmental impacts of this project
and the program, it was recommended that a professional should be recruited to be in charge of assisting
the government in preparing its own Environmental and Social Management Plan based on the EA report's
technical recommendations.
One first and important result of the Environmental Assessment was that, during the course of the
engineering study, the dam design was changed in such a way that the flooded area was decreased in size,
inter alia reducing the number of people to be resettled to 6,134. There are other people affected by the
project.
In October 1995, the Government organized a three-day seminar that reviewed the
recommendations of the EA report and determined the major features of the future Governmental
Environmental and Social Management Plan, which is now composed of a Resettlement & Development
Plan (RDP), a Bio-Physical Impacts Mitigation Plan (BIMP) and a Health Mitigation Plan. The results of
these plans are presented and discussed hereafter.
Resettlement & Development Plan (RDP). The construction of the dam and the transfer and
storage of water to Ouagadougou will have adverse impacts on the lives of about 6,134 persons. They are
referred to in this document as the project affected persons (PAPs). The initial identification and
- 85-



classification of people as PAPs was undertaken under a detailed social and environmental impact
assessment and socioeconomic survey carried out with help from a consulting firm. Their impact
assessment has now been complemented by the design of an involuntary resettlement action plan (RAP)
carried out by ONAT (Office National de Gestion des Terroirs). The social impact areas are located in
three zones: (i) the inundation area; (ii) the pipeline conduit and water storage areas; and (iii) areas affected
by advanced infrastructure (road networks in particular).
For the purposes of this project, a project affected person is defined as: (i) any person who has lost
his or her home in the project impact area and has to be physically relocated; or (ii) any person or
household that loses more than 25 percent of its sources of livelihood or income generating opportunities in
the project impact area. In the latter case, the person or household does not need to relocate. It therefore
means that not all of the 6,134 PAPs mentioned in the GEMP will be physically relocated.
In compliance with Bank policy, OD 4.30, resettlement planning was conducted, first to minimize
the number of people to be resettled. Close collaboration between the social and environmental impact
team and the dam design team reduced the number the number of PAPs in the inundation area, without
impairing the functional objectives of the dam. The second objective of OD 4.30 requires that involuntary
resettlement should be approached as a development exercise whose finality is the restoration of incomes
and sources of livelihood of the affected communities, has also been fully complied with in the RAP.
The central tenet of the RAP is to ensure that the incomes and sources of livelihood of the PAPs
are restored to their pre-project ratio, if not improved. The resettlement planning exercise in this program
has gone beyond the concept of income restoration to put in place a rural development dynamic that seeks
to transform the PAPs and host communities from victims of a water supply project to vectors of change
and development in the impact area. To achieve this objective, the RAP aims to:
-     provide the required socioeconomic infrastructure needed for human development;
-     provide financial resources for agricultural intensification on the replacement fields to be
negotiated for the PAPs;
-     develop market gardening activities in the draw-down areas of the dam for the PAPs;
-     provide small-scale credits (of the social fund type) for micro-projects and rural economic
equipment;
-      develop and expand road and community infrastructure to enhance the quality of life of the
PAPs and host communities;
-      develop fishing activities that are compatible with the functional objectives of the lake;
-      enhance livestock sustaining measures for the herders;
-      put in place a support program for women's activities whose goal is to improve the quality
of life in the pToject impact area;
-     provide literacy and book-keeping classes to enhance the life of the beneficiaries in the
local communities; and
-     target job creation during project implementation to benefit the PAPs and host
communities as an income enhancing measure.
Socioeconomic surveys and stakeholder analyses were undertaken to provide credible benchmarks
for monitoring and follow-up of the income restoration strategies. These data are found in the technical
documents prepared by the consultants.
Bio-Physical Impacts Mitigation Plan (BIMP). In order to minimize the negative impact on the
- 86 -



bio-physical environment, three types of measures have been proposed:
changes in bidding documents to minimize the nuisances generated during the works,
which include: (i) management of logging in the future flooded area; (ii) soil erosion
control; (iii) protection of sensitive ecological areas; (iv) tree and grass plantation on work
sites; and (v) information, education and communication with workers during the
construction period;
land use measures around future flooded areas; and
monitoring measures to know the main impacts of the project on its bio-physical
environment and correct these impacts in real time.
All these measures are needed to ensure the long-term environmental sustainability of this project
and the program for the benefit of the local population,who will keep using natural resources for decades.
All efforts have been made to maximize the economic benefits and minimize the economic costs of this
Mitigation Plan.
Budget for the GEMP over the 1997-2006 period is about CFAF5.3 billion. The bulk of these
expenses will occur during the first period 2000-2003. The current budget for the RAP is about 3 billion
francs CFAF. This represents, on average, about $1,000 per PAP; a very reasonable rate when compared
to other resettlement schemes in the region. The total net cost of the Bio-Physical Mitigation Plan is about
2.3 billion francs CFAF.
Health Mitigation Plan. The project has potential serious health impacts. To mitigate these
health impacts a health mitigation plan has been developed. Public health infrastructure will be improved in
the program area, so that the population has access to adequate health facilities the year round. Preventive
medicine will be a major focus. Epidemiological monitoring and mass treatment will be part of this
approach.
Consultation and Participation in the GEMP. The social impact assessment and resettlement
planning for this project was undertaken in two major phases. The first phase was contracted out to a
foreign consulting firm which through participatory techniques, gathered field data for the EA. The process
was deemed by the authorities as not conferring the required ownership of the findings on the local
stakeholders. Consequently, a three-day workshop was organized to present the data and to allow the
different stakeholders to reach a concensus on the findings and recommendations. (The EA document is
part of the technical studies for the project and is available in project file). After this national workshop,
the Government requested project authorities to translate the conclusions and recommendations of the
workshop into the Environmental Assessment and Action Plan. This assignment was further contracted out
to national institutions for the bio-physical mitigation plan. The output of their assignment is this GEMP.
In summary, with regards to the consultation required for the EA, this project sets new standards at
internalizing a consultant's document to GEMP. At the same time, it builds local institutional capacity for
the implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of the project and the program.
Institutional Framework. To ensure consistency in implementing and supervising the GEMP, a
social and environmental unit has been created under the project coordinating unit within ONEA
(MOZ-ONEA). The social and environmental unit of MOZ-ONEA will supervise the implementation of the
GEMP which has been designed as an integral part of the program. Competent national institutions
participated in the preparation of the GEMP and will assist the Government and ONEA during
implementation. UICN, an international NGO with a subsidiary in Burkina Faso will play a critical role in
overseing the implementation and in monitoring the GEMP. Finally, the local NGO community was closely
- 87 -



associated with the national workshop and will play an active role in assisting or monitoring
implementation of various components of the GEMP.
Environmental Monitoring Program. ONEA has established MOZ-ONEA as the project
coordination unit. MOZ-ONEA has an environmental and social unit with two staff. This unit will be
responsible for organizing the extensive environmental and social monitoring activities. A GIS system to be
funded by AFD will be established and used to manage environmental and social monitoring data.
Other donors' requirementsfor Environmental (Impact) Assessments - E(I)A. Based on
information gathered in the field or received from other donors headquarters, it seems that Agence
Fran,aise de Developpement (AFD) and the European Union (EU), who have comparable requirements and
procedures for E(I)A, are satisfied by the approach, method and results of this Environmental Assessment
and Mitigation Plan.
-88 -



- 89 -






MAP SECTION






4 A2,                                                                           
MAURITANIAj
BU R KIlNA   FA SO                                                                                                           M A L I                                    __ - Area -of map
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                         -         <>i     BURKINA FASO.i
CA PITALE D'ETAT t8   6ao(uLutj>
C-RIVIERES                                                                            , >                 OUDALAN                                  ?GIE    ,BENJN )
PROVLIMlENCDE BOpUoNDANRIEES                                            .Go  'rom-Gorom                                    (,                     pr B COTE----                A}  t 
_ _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                        ) /  )0 u                          z                          ,EI                 (..- 
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                                    _.          Ojb                                    Doi                         v             _Gu   e
0         50         10,0        150        200                          L IOR( UM0<                                       SEONO           >                       X    
KILOMETERS /KILOMETRES                       .YAEG                                >9                                                .              ,r 
4i,     |            \vOurnh~~~,0kgouya     ,BAMj                                                              ,       t                    f
<,jSOUROU                       ts;9+Jo(SANMTNA\3( <LSrt'  
( ( O~~~~~~~Tougan   /o' ,JJ< K Y                                               (       n GNAGNA -  oob   
M    A    L  I                  KOSSI       |         ~       >        PASSORF       '       -          >~>t t      )2     Oog  d                  t       \ g,
Nouna                     s,                                _                               ~       -   OODAI,  
_,.    0      z         NAYALA f   ?<-ORwo4OUBRITENGA'dus s      /\                                                        '/            ._r -                  2
(  sANwA,XN                                         !                  |-                     t           G9URMA              >  -KCOEWEOGBoul\
)~~~~~~AW KENEDOUGO                                    NGIE  B OU   '     LK.   IE\MPE_>ULO  j\ 1 
[   /t    O UE T     T UY   ,    D   +r  t     C            >      rf   ?       . K  U LP E  O GO ?    O MP I  N GA  Sv    _,TA_P_A
-12~~ .                                                                                        Bombiiro-                                                                          0 Di   5Z    L    { .  AHUIpa\Ego  r   2
/ OroduraO S  '\-X--C S O B A ') r D _ _ ,?_. - -_,.,>gt ff ) > Fad--NgGourm
\   '   <-sA  .*  .--- \   Diebougou g   +                               [                                >             <BAZEG
J LERABA   j    Bnfora t  '   >>t r  B0U LESRBAL,E                                                                                       fBE   
Bobo-                                        S                                                                   f I                            hi mo do Lio Iml NAHhro
Xa ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~              DiuCso- O Tn E_       ,                                                                                    _ -6TOGO                   t5uhoudle
_                                        j                             1?                 2                                               oOr d.r.                                          1                 w



