Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3476 BUR 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Ouagadougou Water Supply Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’EAU ET DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT 
 
Dated May 7, 2001
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3476 BUR 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and OFFICE NATIONAL 
DE L’EAU ET DE L'ASSAINISSEMENT (ONEA). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty-five million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
55,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that ONEA agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Project Agreement entered into between the Borrower and 
ONEA, ONEA has agreed to carry out the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Project Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS ONEA, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 ARTICLE 
I 
 Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement 
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) ONEA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical, financial, management and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and, except as the Association and ONEA shall otherwise agree, ONEA 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
good
s
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. ONEA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) ONEA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
ONEA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  the Project, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ONEA of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.05. ONEA shall: (a) carry out, in conjunction with the Borrower 
and the Association, the annual review and the mid-term review respectively, 
referred to in paragraphs 5 and 7 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (b) 
Page  4
-
3
-
promptly after completing such reviews, carry out recommendations arising out of 
said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
appropriate practices. 
 
Section 2.06. ONEA shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association, for 
review and approval: 
 
(a) 
before the beginning of each Project Fiscal Year, a proposed 
annual work program, in respect of  the Project, including a proposed budget and 
financing plan, for the forthcoming Fiscal Year; and 
 
(b) 
semiannual and annual progress reports on the status of the Project, 
including feedback received from water sector users.  
Section 2.07. ONEA shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project 
Account, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account the Initial Deposit and thereafter, 
at semiannual intervals, deposit into the Project Account such amounts as are 
estimated to be required for the ensuing six-month period and as shall be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association; and  
(c) 
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively for 
expenditures under the Project not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of ONEA 
 
Section 3.01. ONEA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, technical, financial, environmental and 
management practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 3.02. ONEA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound engineering, financial and environmental practices. 
 
Section 3.03. ONEA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) ONEA shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 (b) 
ONEA 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
Fiscal Year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, ONEA shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of 
said Section 4.01 in order to enable MOZ, not later than 18 months after the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)  
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, ONEA shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
 
Cancellation and Suspension
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ONEA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
Page  7
-
6
-
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify ONEA of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.  
ARTICLE VI 
 Miscellaneous 
Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 
  Facsimile:
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477 
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI)  
 
For ONEA: 
Page  8
-
7
-
Secteur 9 
–
Face Stade du 4 août 
01 BP 170 Ouagadougou 01 
Burkina Faso 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(226) 34 33 97 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ONEA, or by 
ONEA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board of ONEA or such other person or 
persons as the Chairman of the Board of ONEA shall designate in writing, and ONEA 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, 
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By                                                     /s/ Callisto Madavo 
 
Regional Vice President 
 Africa 
 
OFFICE NATIONAL DE L’EAU ET DE 
L'ASSAINISSEMENT 
Page  9
-
8
-
By                                                       /s/ Bruno Zidouemba 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I. 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.   
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this 
Part B. 
(a) Prequalification
For contracts for works estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more 
shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 
of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost, respectively, $500,000 and $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Page  11
-
10 -
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
$4,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2. Direct 
contracting
For standardization purposes and to ensure continuity of an operational software 
to be used by the private sector operator, software up to $330,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may be procured under a contract awarded on a direct contracting basis in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
Page  12
-
11 -
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  13
-
12 -
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.   
 
2. 
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank 
Member Countries” and “Member Country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively to “Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.  
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.  
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Page  14
-
13 -
Services for financial audits of standard nature and supervision work, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to $390,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for technical audits  that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants up to $300,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants shall be furnished to the Association 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1
 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  
3. Post 
Review
Page  15
-
14 -
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 2
 
Implementation Program 
1.  
ONEA shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Execution 
Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ONEA shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment, abrogation or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.   
 
2. 
(a) 
ONEA shall, not later than October 31 of each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Association an annual work plan and budget. Each year, the 
Borrower and the Association shall discuss the annual work plan and budget, and, 
after incorporating the comments of the Association, the Borrower shall, not later 
than December 31, approve the annual work plan and budget. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
annual work plan and budget shall also include all activities to mitigate and 
compensate for the environmental damages identified in the environmental impact 
assessment.  
 
3. 
ONEA shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, the MOZ. The MOZ 
shall be assisted by a number of key staff, appointed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, including a Project director, financial and 
administrative director, a technical director and an accountant. The MOZ shall be 
responsible for: (i) overall coordination regarding the implementation of the Project, (ii) 
the consolidation of annual work programs and budgets, (iii) the setting-up and 
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system, and (iv)  the financial and 
administrative management of the Project. 
4. 
(a) 
ONEA shall carry out, jointly with the Borrower and the Association,  
twice a year, a comprehensive project implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting 
progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project 
as of the date of the review, and ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively 
achieve the objectives of the Project.  
 
(b) 
ONEA shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review referred to in 
(a) above, furnish to the Association, through the Borrower, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in 
Project implementation. 
Page  17
-
16 -
(c) 
Promptly after completing such reviews, ONEA shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the 
Association’s comments thereon. 
5.  
ONEA shall:  
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, June 30, September 30 and 
December 31, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to the above paragraph (a), on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review, jointly with the Borrower and the Association, by not later than 
April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31, the Association shall request, the report 
referred to in the above paragraph (b), and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's 
views on the matter. 
6.
 
ONEA shall: 
(a) 
take all necessary measures to invite the other donors co-financing 
the Project to a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project 
under terms of reference agreed with the Association not later than April 30, 
2004; 
 
(b)  
at least four weeks prior to the midterm review, furnish to the 
Association, through the Borrower, a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally; and 
Page  18
-
17 -
(c)  
not later than four weeks after the midterm review, prepare an action 
program, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project 
having regard to the findings of the midterm review and, thereafter, implement such 
action program. 
7. ONEA 
shall: 
 
(a)  
prepare in each year in sufficient time ahead of the preparation of 
the operating budget of the Borrower and its agencies, but in any event not later 
than June 30, a forecast of water sales for the next year, based on the consumption 
of the preceding 12 months and likely tariff increase, so that realistic amounts can 
be included in the budget of the Borrower and its agencies; 
(b)  
prepare in each year, but in any event, not later than June 30, a 
report comparing the amount of water bills of the Borrower and its agencies for 
the preceding year with payments received; and  
(c)  
in case of arrears, submit these arrears, to the Borrower and its 
agencies for their acknowledgement and payment. 
8.  
ONEA shall: 
(a) 
prepare not later than June 30 of each Fiscal Year: (i) a tariff increase 
proposal so as to allow ONEA to reach Financial Equilibrium not later than      December 
31, 2006; and (ii) an action plan to reduce its operating expenses; 
(b)  
furnish said proposal to the Borrower and the Association for their 
review and comments; and 
(c) 
thereafter, implement an action plan, as determined in agreement with 
the Borrower and the Association, to take effect as of January 1 of the next year. 
9. 
ONEA shall take all necessary measures so that its accounts receivable from 
water sales to private customers and standpipes are less than four months of 
corresponding sales by December 31, 2004.  
10. 
ONEA shall: (a) appoint a technical auditor whose qualifications and 
terms of reference are acceptable to the Association to review twice a year the 
implementation of the Performance Agreement and the Service Contract; (b) 
Page  19
-
18 -
forward to the Association the reports prepared by the technical auditor pursuant 
to said review; and (c) promptly thereafter, take all necessary remedial actions. 
Page  20
-
19 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Monitoring
 
and
 
Performance Indicators 
Increase reliability of water supply in Ouagadougou  by developing storage 
facility and transmission capacity. 
(24 hours per day until 2007) 
 
Increase coverage by extending secondary and tertiary distribution networks and 
providing social connections. 
Population connected to the water network (from 300,000 inhabitants in 2000 to 
800,000 inhabitants in 2007) 
 
Improve the capacity of ONEA to manage the rapid change in scope of the water 
services by contracting out commercial operations and financial management. 
Recovery rate from private customers (from 86% to 92% on December 31, 2004 
and to 95% on December 31, 2006) 
 
Accounts receivables in days of private customers (4 months) (from 160 days to 
less than 120 days on December 31, 2004 and to less than 90 days on December 
31, 2006) 
 
Productivity of commercial staff (from 186 to 230 in Ouagadougou on December 
31, 2006) 
 
Financial statements prepared according to international standards (on time and 
certified for year 2002 and after) 
 
Increased reliability water production in Ouagadougou, expanded and more 
accessible  network.  
5,400 m3 of new storage capacity 
210 km of secondary networks and 1200 km of tertiary network 
 
Increased number of connections and improved access to standposts 
Number of new connections installed (45,000) 
Number of new standposts (400) 
 
Improved management of commercial operations and strengthened financial 
capacity 
Page  21
-
20 -
Average time between meter reading and invoicing (from 30 days to 15 days on 
December 31, 2004 and after) 
Metered consumption increased (from over 90% to over 95% on December 31, 
2004 and after) 
 
Computerized administrative system for billing, collection, receivables, 
complaints tracking and accounting in place on December 31, 2003 
 
New connection policy and procedures in place on December 31, 2002  
 
Inventory management program in place on January 31, 2003 
 
Computerized cost accounting system in place on January 31, 2003 
 
Financial management information system in place on June 30, 2002 
 
Training program developed and implemented on June 30, 2002 
 
