                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000705




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-34760 IDA-3476A)




                                         ON A


                                        CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 55 MILLION
                            (US$ 70 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                          TO


                                    BURKINA FASO


                                       FOR THE


                     OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT




                                       June, 2008




Africa Water and Urban 2 Technical Unit
CD15 - Africa Regional Office

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/2007)
                              Currency Unit = CFAF
                             1.00 CFAF = US$ 0.00198
                              US$ 1.00 = 506 FCFA

                    FISCAL YEAR: January 1 ­ December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABEDA    Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
AFD      Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AfDB     African Development Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF     CFA Franc
EDF      European Development Fund
EIB      European Investment Bank
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EOPT     End-Of-Project-Target
ESMP     Environmental and Social Management Plan
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
IDA      International Development Association
IsDB     Islamic Development Bank
ITC      Information Technology and Communication
KFAED    Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW      Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
LSP      Letter of Sector Policy
MOZ      Maîtrise d'Ouvrage de Ziga (Ziga Project Unit within ONEA)
MTR      Midterm Review
NA       Not applicable
NGO      Non Governmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
ONEA     Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement (National Water and Sanitation
         Utility )
OPEC     OPEC Fund
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PN-AEPA  Programme National d'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et d'Assainissement
         (National Program for Water Supply and Sanitation)
PSP      Private Sector Participation
UFW      Unaccounted for Water
AWUAU    African Water Utilities Union
WADB     West African Development Bank


                          Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekvesili

                       Country Director: Ishac Diwan

                        Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro

                   Project Team Leader: Matar Fall

                      ICR Team Leader: Matar Fall



                                         ii

                                                  BURKINA FASO
                                  Ouagadougou Water Supply Project




                                                      CONTENTS



A Basic Information ..................................................................................................................iv
B. Key Dates ..............................................................................................................................iv
C. Ratings Summary ..................................................................................................................iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................ v
E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................... v
F. Results Framework Analysis..................................................................................................vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs................................................................................ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................ix
I. Disbursement Profile..............................................................................................................ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...........................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...........................................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes.........................................................................................................9
3.3 Efficiency ............................................................................................................................11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .....................................................................12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................................13
6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................................15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................................17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..............................................................................................18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................23
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...............................................................35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................................26
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................................35
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................36
MAP                                                                                                                                       40




                                                               iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                    BF-Ouaga Water Suply
Country:               Burkina Faso           Project Name:
                                                                    (FY01)

Project ID:            P000306                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-34760,IDA-3476A

ICR Date:              04/21/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR

                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    BURKINA FASO

Original Total
                       XDR 55.0M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 54.8M
Commitment:

Environmental Category: A

Implementing Agencies:


Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
African Development Bank (AfDB)
European Investment Bank (EIB)
Islamic Development Bank (IsDB)
OPEC Fund for International Development
ONEA: Offive National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW)
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)
Kuwait Fund for Arab and Economic Development (KFAED)
European Development Fund
French Development Agency (AFD)
West African Development Bank (WADB)


B. Key Dates
                                                                         Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                            Date(s)

Concept Review:       11/22/1991    Effectiveness:         10/01/2001      10/01/2001

Appraisal:            07/05/2000    Restructuring(s):          NA             NA

Approval:             03/20/2001    Mid-term Review:       11/15/2005      05/18/2005

                                    Closing:               12/31/2007      12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                     Highly Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible

Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                         Highly Satisfactory




                                             iv

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings             Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:             Highly Satisfactory
                                              Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                  Highly Satisfactory
                                              Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                  Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                  Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
                               Indicators                                   Rating
      Performance                                   (if any)

Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
                                   No                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):

Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                                   No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):

DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Water supply                                                  100                 100




Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)

Access to urban services and housing                          Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                        At Approval

Vice President:          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo

Country Director:        Ishac Diwan                       Hasan A. Tuluy

Sector Manager:          Eustache Ouayoro                  Letitia A. Obeng

Project Team Leader:     Matar Fall                        Eustache Ouayoro

ICR Team Leader:         Matar Fall

ICR Primary Author:      Van Gastel Jos




                                             v

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are to assist the Borrower increase access to adequate and reliable
potable water supply in Ouagadougou and to strengthen urban water sector management. The
objectives would be achieved by: (i) developing new water storage capacity and a main delivery
network; (ii) extending the secondary and tertiary water distribution networks; (iii) providing
connections and water standpipes to low-income households; (iv) promoting efficiency in urban
water supply operations by strengthening the capacity of the National Water and Sanitation
Utility (ONEA); and (v) contracting out ONEA's commercial, financial and accounting
operations to a private water operator through a Service Contract.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives have not been revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Continuity of the water service (hours of water delivered per day)
Value
                                           24/7 water supply                   24/7 water supply
(quantitative or Intermittent service
                                           service                             service
qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2001                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Percentage of achievement: 100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Population connected to the water distribution network in Ouagadougou
Value
                                           800,000                             860,000
(quantitative or 300,000 inhabitants
                                           inhabitants.                        inhabitants
qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2001                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Percentage of achievement is 107%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Improve the capacity of ONEA to manage the urban water supply sub-sector
Value            Ratio of bill collection  92% at the end of                   88 % at the end of
(quantitative or from private consumers    2004 and 95%                        2004 and 95,5% at
qualitative)     (86% in 2000)             thereafter                          the end of 2007
Date achieved 03/20/2001                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Percentage of achievement at the end of the project is 100%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    Accounts receivable from private consumers
                                           Less than 120 days
Value
                                           in 2004 and 90
(quantitative or 160 days                                                      73 days
                                           days in 2006 and
qualitative)
                                           thereafter



                                                vi

Date achieved 03/20/2001                    12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Percentage of achievement: 123%
achievement)
                 Productivity of the commercial staff in Ouagadougou (Number of active
Indicator 5 :
                 subscribers /number of staff)
Value
(quantitative or 186                         230                             810
qualitative)
Date achieved 03/20/2001                    12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Percentage of achievement: 350%
achievement)
Indicator 6 :    Annual financial reports prepared in accordance with international standards
                                             Prepared on time
Value            Not prepared on time in
                                            and approved from
(quantitative or accordance with                                             Realized
                                            the year 2002
qualitative)     international standards
                                            onwards
Date achieved 03/20/2001                    12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Percentage achievement 100%
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                              Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                               Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                      Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                 documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Number of new connections installed (45,000), number of new standposts (400)
                 Baseline value is zero, as
                 the indicator reflects only 45,000 new                      56,000 new
Value
                 additional connections      connections and                 connections and
(quantitative
                 and additional standposts 400 standposts                    400 standposts
or qualitative)
                 to be installed by the      installed                       installed
                 project.
Date achieved 03/20/2001                    12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Percentage of achievement is 124% for connections and 100% for standposts
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Extension of secondary and tertiary water distribution networks
                                             1200 km of
                                             tertiary                        1,437 km of tertiary
Value            Baseline is zero, as the    distribution                    distribution and 171
(quantitative    indicator reflects only     network and 210                 km of secondary
or qualitative) additional infrastructure km of secondary                    distribution
                                             distribution                    network realized
                                             network realized



                                                  vii

Date achieved 03/20/2001                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
                Percentage of achievement 120% for tertiary distribution networks and 81% for
                secondary distribution networks. When considering the tertiary and secondary
Comments
                distribution networks together, then the percentage of achievement is 114%.
(incl. %
                What matters here was to realize secondary and tertiary networks extension
achievement)
                works that would allow hooking all new costumers to the water distribution
                system; which has been achieved evidenced by the above IO indicator 1.
Indicator 3 :   Additional water storage capacity
                                                                             Reservoir of
Value           Baseline is zero, as the  5,400 cubic meters                 Boudtenga with a
(quantitative   indicator reflects only   of additional                      capacity of 5,400
or Qualitative) additional capacity       capacity.                          cubic meters
                                                                             constructed.
Date achieved 03/20/2001                  12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Percentage of achievement is 100%
achievement)




                                              viii

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                    Actual
       Date ISR
 No.                          DO                   IP            Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                 (USD millions)
  1    09/27/2001          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.00
  2    10/02/2001          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.00
  3    04/29/2002          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                3.16
  4    04/30/2002          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                3.16
  5    10/01/2002          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                4.02
  6    12/11/2002          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                4.37
  7    05/30/2003          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                5.40
  8    08/05/2003          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                6.29
  9    01/28/2004          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                9.80
  10   03/09/2004          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              10.63
  11   09/09/2004          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              13.80
  12   04/18/2005          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              18.95
  13   11/30/2005          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              26.25
  14   05/10/2006          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              38.79
  15   10/26/2006          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              47.01
  16   03/29/2007          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              63.08
  17   09/21/2007          Satisfactory        Satisfactory              74.84
  18   12/13/2007      Highly Satisfactory  Highly Satisfactory          78.64


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile




                                          ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal

Sector background
Between 1985 and 2000 the population of Ouagadougou, the capital city of Burkina Faso more
than doubled, from 436,000 inhabitants to 980,000 inhabitants. It was clear that rapid population
increase was going to continue and the annual population growth rate of 4.6 percent was unlikely
to slow for the next 10 years. Drinking water supply had not kept up with this rapid increase in
the number of urban dwellers nor with the geographical expansion of the city and, as a result,
water production capacity and the distribution networks fell far short of meeting the needs of a
sprawling city concentrating 40 percent of the country's urban population. In 2000, water supply
delivery was intermittent in Ouagadougou and only 30 percent of the population was connected to
the water supply system (half of the rates in other capital cities in Sub-Sahara Africa) while 25
percent had reasonable access to piped water through public standpipes. The rest of the
population, mostly poor households living in peri-urban areas, got their water from private
vendors at prices ranging from 5 to 12 times the average tariff paid by connected households.

The National Water and Sanitation Utility (ONEA) a public utility, was responsible for water
supply and sanitation in urban areas. While ONEA was quite capable, technically, of managing
the water supply systems, it was facing serious difficulties in its commercial, financial and
accounting functions and did not have the resources to expand the water systems to accommodate
the population increase of its largest commercial operation (Ouagadougou). Bill collection rates
from private and government consumers were weak and at 86 percent and 65 percent,
respectively. Until 2000 ONEA's auditors were unable to certify its financial accounts. Persistent
problems in reconciling accounts, together with the lack of efficient commercial and financial
management systems, made improvement of ONEA's financial accounting and commercial
functions a high priority, along with its inability to provide more water to its growing urban
population in general and in Ouagadougou in particular.

The Government requested the support of donors, including IDA, to address these issues. The
IDA-financed project was part of an integrated investment program involving 10 other donors
aimed at: (i) increasing production capacity with the construction of a dam and a new water
treatment plant, (ii) increasing water service reliability and coverage by constructing primary,
secondary and tertiary water distribution networks, (iii) implementing an environmental
management plan and (iv) developing technical assistance and capacity building for ONEA.


Government strategy
The project was coherent with the Government's strategy as set out in the 1998 Letter of Sector
Policy (LSP) in which the provision of drinking water was one of the main objectives. The policy
of the Government aimed at expanding drinking water facilities in all urban centers and, at the
same time, reducing financial dependency of the water sector on Government subsidies. The
revised LSP dated January 2001 recognized the social and economic nature of water while
considering the achievement of financial equilibrium by 2006 as one of the key objectives to be
achieved by the urban water sub-sector.

The strategy of the Government was to: (i) strengthen ONEA by granting it more autonomy in
managing the urban water sector, (ii) better coordinate donor support to the sub-sector and (iii),
restore financial equilibrium through appropriate tariff policy and improved sector performance.



                                                   1

The Government also decided that ONEA should remain a publicly-owned limited liability
company because of the strategic nature of water and the need to finance a large part of the
investments from concessional resources.

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
The project was coherent with the CAS approved in November, 2000. The thrust of the Bank's
assistance strategy was to support Burkina Faso in implementing its Poverty Reduction Strategy.
The CAS focused on areas critical to the poor and on increasing their access to primary health
care, basic education and drinking water. By focusing its interventions on: (a) increasing access to
water services in low-income households in Ouagadougou through the extension of the secondary
and tertiary networks and the provision of water connections and public standpipes; and (b)
promoting sustainability and efficiency in urban water supply operations, the project was
supporting the CAS objectives.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objectives of the project were to assist the Borrower increase access to adequate and reliable
drinking water supply in Ouagadougou and to strengthen urban water sector management. This
would be achieved by: (i) developing new water storage capacity and a main delivery network;
(ii) extending the secondary and tertiary water distribution networks; (iii) providing connections
and public standpipes to low-income households; (iv) promoting efficiency in urban water supply
operations by strengthening ONEA's capacity; and (v) contracting out ONEA's commercial,
financial and accounting operations to a private water operator through a Service Contract.

Key performance indicators selected for measuring and monitoring progress towards achieving
project's development objectives include the following:
   ·   Continuity of the water service (hours of water service delivered per day);
   ·   Population connected to the water distribution network in Ouagadougou, and
   ·   Improvement of ONEA's capacity to manage the urban water sub-sector (bill collection
       ratio, productivity of commercial staff, financial management).


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project Development Objectives were not revised as they remained relevant throughout
project implementation. However, the basis of calculation of the Sector-related CAS Goal
performance indicator was revised in March 2007 in agreement with the Borrower. The change
reduced the base number of people served by one standpost, from 800 in Ouagadougou and 1,000
in other centers as initially assumed in the PAD to 300 people served by one standpost in the
entire perimeter served by ONEA. This ratio is the common ratio recommended by the African
Water Utilities Union (AWUU) for SSA that was adopted to monitor water MDGs in Burkina
Faso under the National Water and Sanitation Millennium Program (PN-AEPA). Therefore, it
was agreed to adjust the sector-related CAS goal indicator for harmonization and benchmarking
purposes.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The project was to improve and increase access to drinking water for the whole population of
Ouagadougou which was expected to reach 1.4 million inhabitants by 2007. Improved and
increased access to drinking water would ultimately contribute to poverty reduction and improved



                                                  2

health and well-being of the population. The project would especially benefit poor households
along the outskirts of Ouagadougou that lacked appropriate water services and depended on water
vendors at very high cost.


1.5 Original Components

The project financed by IDA was part of a US$ 200 million program involving 11 other donors
through parallel financing arrangements. The program included the following components:

    1. An Environmental and Social Management Plan (US$ 11.55M ­ AFD, AfDB, ONEA);
    2. Construction of an earth dam (Ziga Dam) with a reservoir of 200 Mm3 capacity (US$
        27.6M ­ ABEDA, IsDB, OPEC, KFAED). This component was completed before the
        approval of the IDA project;
    3. A 43 km water transmission main (1,000 mm diameter) with a 5,400 m3 storage
        reservoir, (US$ 26.8M ­ IDA, KFW, ONEA);
    4. A water treatment plant and pumping station: two modules of 1,500 m3 per hour for the
        first phase (US$ 20.5M - AFD);
    5. A 50 km primary distribution system composed of three networks: North, Central and
        South (US$ 20.8M ­ IsDB, EIB, WADB);
    6. A storage facility and pumping station (SP3) at the entry of the city, providing water to
        the primary network of the distribution system, 8 water towers, 10 ground-level tanks, 12
        lift stations and remote control room (US$ 24.5M ­ EIB, EDF);
    7. A secondary distribution network of about 210 km, tertiary networks and installation of
        50,000 connections and 400 standpipes (US$ 47M ­ IDA, AfDB, ONEA);
    8. Water connection materials (US$ 1.6M ­ AfDB);
    9. A 33 KV power supply line of 31 km from Ziniare to the Ziga Dam (US$ 2.2M -
        WADB);
    10. An international water operator hired under a Service Contract to run ONEA's
        commercial operations and carry out financial management, and provision of equipment
        and services under an Operating Investment Resource (OIR); Supervision of works,
        technical assistance and training (US$ 19.4M ­IDA, ONEA, AFD).

The table below describes with more details the components financed by IDA with their original
costs as specified in the PAD:

Components                                                             Costs including
                                                                        contingencies
                                                                        (million US$)
a. Infrastructure
 (i)      Construction of the Boudtenga storage facility and
          the water transmission main (from the water
          treatment plant to the Boudtenga storage facility
          and from Boudtenga to Ouagadougou);                                 7.37
 (ii)     Construction of water distribution secondary
          networks; and                                                       11.90
 (iii)    Construction of tertiary networks and installation of
          water connections and standpipes                                    32.70
                                                      Subtotal                52.05
b. Technical assistance
Supervision of all civil works (including contracts funded by



                                                3

other donors, except the construction of the Ziga Dam)                           6.09
c. Capacity building and institutional strengthening
(i)      Capacity building in technical, commercial,
         administrative and financial management of water
         utilities;                                                              2.70
(ii)     Strengthening ONEA's commercial, accounting and
         financial operations through a Service Contract
         performed by an International Water Operator and an
         accounting firm; and                                                    3.32
(iii)    Providing operating investment resources, to be used
         under the Service Contract to improve ONEA's
         commercial and financial operations.                                    2.12
Subtotal                                                                         8.15
PPF Refinancing                                                                  0.40
Unallocated                                                                      3.31
                                                           Total                70.00


1.6 Revised Components

There was no revision of the approved components. However, there was a re-allocation of the
Credit disbursement proceeds in October 2006 to: (i) increase the allocation for the extension of
water distribution tertiary networks which was insufficient to fully implement the social
connections and standpipes program, (ii) bundle part of the provision goods to civil works
contracts (supply and construction) as this was found to be more time effective and less costly,
and (iii) increase the allocation for Consultants' services and training because of the 18 month
extension of the Service Contract approved in June 2006.


1.7 Other significant changes
There were no significant changes in design, scope and implementation arrangements.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation was satisfactory: (i) a qualified team with the required skills was in charge of
project preparation, (ii) the design of the project was based on detailed technical reviews of
alternatives, tested parameters and lessons learned from similar projects, (ii) major risks and their
mitigation were clearly identified, (iii) an adequate monitoring system and related tools were
established from the onset, (iv) financial and economic analyses were conducted using tools
already in place in other operations and (v) safeguards issues were properly covered based on an
appropriate participatory process and full disclosure.

The project was carefully designed taking into account lessons from earlier operations
The design of the project drew heavily on lessons learned from previous water reforms in the
region (notably Water Sector Projects in Senegal and Niger) whose common objective was to
increase access to water while developing long-term financial viability through increased
operational efficiency. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design included: (i) the need
to involve a professional private partner in assisting the water utility to improve its operational
management; (ii) the importance of carefully designing the private sector participation (PSP)
scheme with clearly defined mission for the private partner and measurable performance



                                                   4

indicators matched with proper incentives and penalties; (iii) a clear buy-in from the Government
of the reforms to be implemented and the importance of Government playing by the rules and
paying its water bills and (iv) the use of a financial model at an early stage of project design as a
transparent regulatory and management tool to monitor progress in achieving financial
equilibrium. Two of these lessons deserve further discussions.

One key feature of the reform was the private sector participation (PSP). While donors originally
recommended a lease contract similar to the contracts implemented in Senegal and Niger, the
Government favoured the use of limited PSP by opting for a Service Contract. The main reason
for such a choice was that ONEA was already managing its technical activities satisfactorily and
the Government wanted to concentrate efforts on improving the management of commercial and
financial activities that the company was unable to address internally. The private operator was
chosen competitively and the contract became effective in June 2001 for an initial period of five
years and later extended by 18 months until December 2007. The Service Contract included a set
of verifiable indicators to monitor the performance of the operator. Moreover, the remuneration
of the operator was linked to the achievement of predetermined levels of performance indicators.

The second key lesson reflected in the project design was the development of a financial model to
monitor progress towards achieving financial equilibrium of the sector by a predetermined
horizon. It was agreed that the project would support the restoration of the financial equilibrium
of the sector by December 31, 2006 while keeping annual water tariff increases politically and
socially acceptable by: (i) reducing operating cost through increased efficiency, (ii) ensuring
timely payment of water bills including water consumption by Government agencies, and (iii)
enforcing procedures to adjust water tariffs progressively along with the improvement of the
quality of service.

The successful reflection of these lessons learned in the project design ensured a good quality at
entry.

At the same time, project preparation took a rather long time to be completed because of the size
and the complexity of this operation funded by eleven donors. Much time was needed for donors'
coordination and discussions with the Government to reach a joint agreement on various aspects
of the project design including technical, financial and institutional options. Much time was also
needed to develop an appropriate safeguard program to mitigate potential social and
environmental impacts of the Ziga Dam at a time when the Bank was very wary about dams. IDA
requested the Government to prepare a comprehensive Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan
(ESMP) of an amount of US$ 11.5M (quite a project in the project) that was thoroughly reviewed
with donors and ultimately validated by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) as guaranteeing third party.

Risks and their mitigation
The project's major risks and their mitigation were correctly identified at the project preparation
stage, including the following: (i) whether lack of local counterpart funding from ONEA would
delay project completion, (ii) whether the international water operator would perform as expected
without interference from ONEA and the Ministry of Water, and (iii) whether the Government
would apply the agreed the tariff policy and regularly pay its water bills.

Through a careful implementation of mitigation measures, all these risks have been eventually
evaded: (i) the counterpart funds were limited to a maximum of 10 percent of the IDA project
cost, so that ONEA was able to generate it from water tariffs, (ii) an experienced private operator
was selected and Government and ONEA's interference was deterred by the introduction of a



                                                   5

transparent performance based Service Contract and (iii) tariff increases were introduced
progressively along with the improvement of the quality of the service and a mechanism was
developed for budgeting and paying of Government water bills for which targets were set in the
Performance Agreement between the Government and ONEA (Contrat-Plan).

Adequacy of participatory processes
A comprehensive participatory process was adopted for the preparation of the Environmental and
Social Management Plan (ESMP). It included detailed plans for income restoration and a socio-
economic development program in the Ziga Dam area. During the ESMP preparation process in
1997, there were extensive public consultations with beneficiaries widely announced through
rural radio and newspapers and relevant environmental documentation was made available for
public comments. Various public meetings were held during project implementation with people
affected by the project, NGO's, local government officials and village elected representatives in
the Ziga Dam area.

Annual consumer satisfaction surveys were planned to assess beneficiaries' satisfaction with
water coverage and access to improved services in ten operation centers of ONEA including
Ouagadougou. Developing surveys and using them to address performance was an important part
of the project design as an incentive for ONEA to perform and respond to issues raised by the
surveys.


2.2 Implementation

Project restructuring
The project was not restructured and it was never at risk.

Midterm Review
The Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) in May 2005 and assessed the overall progress of
the project towards achieving its development objectives. Based on the findings the project team
made proper recommendations for the second phase. As only 25 percent of the credit was
disbursed at the time of the MTR, one of the main recommendations was to take appropriate
measures to speed-up the extension of the secondary and tertiary water distribution networks and
the implementation of the social connections program which represented the bulk of the IDA
financing.

Factors that contributed to successful implementation
·   ONEA was the unique executing agency of the project. While a Project Unit (MOZ-ONEA)
    within the water utility was responsible for implementing the capital investment program, the
    technical, commercial and financial departments of ONEA were in charge of the institutional
    and capacity building components critical to the long term sustainability of the sub-sector.
·   The management of ONEA was very committed to the project. The continuity of ONEA's
    management team and the competence of the staff involved in the project since its inception
    were critical to the successful implementation of the project.
·   ONEA enjoyed a higher degree of autonomy vis-à-vis the Government and the "Contrat-
    Plan" (Performance Agreement contract between the Government and ONEA) laying out
    relationships between the Government and ONEA was a useful regulatory tool to clarify
    respective accountabilities.
·   The execution of the Service Contract has been audited each year by two auditors, a water
    utility expert and a certified public accountant. These experts were responsible for: (i)
    evaluating the progress made by the private operator in delivering products and (ii) reviewing



                                                  6

     the calculation of performance indicators and the incentive index (bonus/penalty) for the
     remuneration of the operator. The auditors were also responsible for monitoring the execution
     of the Performance Contract between the Government and ONEA, as well as reviewing
     financial projections for tariff adjustments.

Factors that gave rise to problems in implementation
After one year of duty, the Service Contractor initially concluded that ONEA's commercial
software did not offer sufficient guarantee in terms of security and reliability and recommended
its replacement. ONEA eventually agreed with this proposal, but as of the project completion
date, the new software had yet to be procured and installed. Nevertheless, this shortcoming has
marginally affected the operational efficiency of ONEA because the existing commercial
software was significantly improved by the Service Contractor and the productivity of the
commercial department's staff increased four-fold after six years.

The subsidized water connection program faced serious start up problems due to the fact that the
entry fee initially set at FCFA 50,000 per connection was too high for beneficiaries. In addition,
it appeared during the first phase of the project that high demand areas were located far from
existing water secondary distribution networks, which meant that more network extensions had to
be made. In May 2006, it was decided to introduce some modifications to the program to reflect
the situation on the ground and speed up operations. Modifications consisted of: (i) decreasing the
entry fee from CFA 50,000 to FCFA 30,000, (ii) simplifying application procedures and stepping-
up information campaigns to the public, and (iii) restructuring the water distribution network
extension component. These changes have been very effective and at project completion 56,000
water connections have been executed.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation Design
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were well planned. In addition to physical indicators
related to project implementation, water sector indicators were developed based on the Bank's
toolkit and were consistent with information gathered by IBNET (International Benchmarking
Network for Water and Sanitation Utilities) and the Water Operator Partnership (WOP).
Extensive monitoring and evaluation was foreseen in project design because of: (i) the size and
complexity of the project; (ii) the interrelation between the IDA-financed project and the rest of
the investment program; and (iii) the multiple donors involved in the program. Monitoring and
evaluation arrangements included the following:
·    A specific unit inside ONEA in charge of collecting the information and producing
     monitoring and evaluation indicators.
·    Annual review meetings of the "Supervision Committee for Implementation of the Ziga
     Project" jointly conducted by the Government, ONEA and donors.
·    Supervision missions by IDA in which also other donors participated. Apart from monitoring
     the implementation of the capital investment program and the situation of the sector reform,
     supervision missions included field visits to closely monitor social development impacts and
     the implementation of the ESMP.
·    Quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports prepared by ONEA and reviewed by the
     Government and donors, on the implementation of the capital investment program, the
     capacity building component and the execution of the Service Contract.
·    Quarterly reports prepared by the Service Contractor and reviewed by the Government, and
     donors.




                                                   7

·   Biannual technical and financial audits of the ONEA Performance Contract, the private
    operator Service Contract and the financial model by an independent auditor. These audits
    were planned in such a way that they preceded the IDA supervision missions so that audit
    results could be taken into consideration during supervision missions.
·   Supervision of the entire capital investment program (co-financed by 11 donors) by one
    consulting firm under a single contract financed by IDA.
·   Preparation of a comprehensive Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan, with a number of
    impact indicators related to bio-physical, health and social impacts. A Social and
    Environmental unit within ONEA was responsible for executing this monitoring plan.
·   Annual consumer satisfaction surveys conducted by the Service Contractor.

Monitoring and Evaluation Implementation
The project put in place adequate monitoring and regulatory tools:
·   All periodic monitoring and evaluation activities as enumerated above were guided by the
    assessment of a set of performance indicators that were relevant, unambiguous, quantifiable
    and measurable.
·   ONEA's Performance Contract with the Government included extensive sets of verifiable
    performance indicators consistent with the private operator's Service Contract with ONEA.
·   The financial model, developed during project preparation, enabled planning for financial
    equilibrium of the sector and monitoring of progress in achieving it. An optimal scenario was
    developed in which financial equilibrium would be reached by December 2006 based on the
    one hand, on efficiency improvements resulting from the Service Contract and the
    implementation of the capital investment program, and on the other hand, on consumer tariff
    increases. In addition to its use in tariff-setting, the financial model proved to be a powerful
    tool for financial planning, management and monitoring of the sector during project
    implementation.

Monitoring and Evaluation Utilization
Results of the above monitoring and evaluation activities eventually served IDA supervision
missions. More importantly, monitoring and evaluation results culminated in the Annual review
meetings and triggered, where necessary, detailed recommendations from the donors to the
Government and ONEA. Beyond monitoring project performances, M&E results were also used
by ONEA to improve its day-to-day budgeting and financial management processes.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Compliance with environmental and social safeguards has been satisfactory. As part of project
preparation and design, a comprehensive Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)
was prepared by the Government following the Bank safeguards policies. The ESMP which
focused on the Ziga Dam area, was quite a project by itself with a substantial financing of US$
11.5M. It has been successfully implemented by a specific environmental unit created within
ONEA with the participation of the Departments of Environment, Health and Agriculture at the
Government level. The socio-economic impact of the ESMP is assessed in Section 3.5.

The project's accounting and financial management reporting systems including arrangements for
audits have been satisfactory and the credit was fully disbursed. The performance of the project
unit in terms of procurement has been also satisfactory; all contracts were awarded according to
agreed procedures and completed on time before the project closing date.




                                                     8

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Description and evaluation of the transition arrangements for the project's future operation
The urban water sector reached financial equilibrium in 2006, meaning that the sector has become
financially autonomous and able to fully cover its operational and capital expenditures without
Government subsidy. A prerequisite for sustained financial autonomy however is that: (i) water
tariffs are regularly adjusted to follow the inflation rate and (ii) State agencies' water bills are
paid on time. Based on latest updates of the financial model, no short or medium term financial
stress is foreseen, and the Government is fully committed to adjust tariffs for inflation and to
continue paying on time State agencies' water consumption.

The Service Contract with the private operator ended in December 2007, but ONEA is able to
continue to perform successfully. Its overall operational management capacity has dramatically
improved and its staff was trained to financial and commercial management tools and procedures
as well as the use of the financial model. The Government is fully aware of what could be
achieved with more autonomy to ONEA and therefore is determined to sustain the current
institutional set-up.

With the support of the international donor community, Burkina Faso has prepared a National
Water Supply and Sanitation Program (PN-AEPA) for achieving the Millennium Development
Goals. Donors (including IDA) are willing to finance the program up to US$240 million over the
period 2009-2015. This program will support post-completion operation of the present project
since the Bank and other donors will continue to assist the urban water sector and ONEA until
2015 along the same sectoral approach. It will allow continued monitoring and evaluation of the
urban water sub-sector with the same instruments and tools such as the sector performance
indicators and the financial model.


3. Assessment of Outcomes


3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective of the project is highly relevant as well as the design of the project and its
implementation. The project objectives were consistent with the country's primary priorities,
including the provision of drinking water while maintaining financial autonomy of the urban
water sector. The project objectives were also in line with the Bank Country Assistance Strategy.

The project design was consistent with conditions in the country and had been influenced by
lessons learned in successful water operations in the region. In particular, the project addressed
critical bottlenecks through: physical investments to increase water production capacity and
service coverage and institutional and financial reforms to address deep seated governance issues
and performance incentives.

The continued relevance of project's objectives, design and implementation arrangements is
highlighted by the fact that the Government has prepared a follow-up operation (the PN-AEPA)
with similar development objectives that donors are ready to support.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Achievement of project objectives is rated as highly satisfactory as evidenced by development
impact indicators that have been fully achieved or exceeded.



                                                    9

Access to water in Ouagadougou has dramatically improved as a result of the project. The
number of people with direct access to piped water through household connections has more than
doubled in six years from 300,000 in 2001 to 860,000 people in 2007, representing 107 percent of
the end-of-project-target (EOPT)1.

Reliability of water supply in Ouagadougou: Compared to the situation in 2001 when the water
service in Ouagadougou was chronically intermittent with low pressure, full-time (24 hours a day,
7 days a week) water supply service is now ensured with sufficient pressure in the capital city.

Sector management operational performances have significantly improved as a result of the
successful implementation of the Service Contract.
·   The bill collection ratio has increased from 86 percent in 2001 to 95.4 percent in 2007,
    exceeding the end-of-project-target (EOPT) initially set at 95 percent. Accounts receivable
    from private consumers has decreased from 160 days to 73 days (achieving 123 percent of the
    EOPT).
·   Unaccounted-for-water (UFW) was stabilized at 18 percent of the production, which is
    comparable to best performing water utilities in SSA (Côte d'Ivoire, Senegal). Expressed in
    terms of losses per km of distribution network, UFW decreased from 5.5 m3/km/day to 4.8
    m3/km/day, showing that despite increased volume of water produced and extended
    distribution networks, UFW performance did not fall as a result of a greater technical and
    commercial management.
·   The commercial staff productivity index, which stands at 810 connections per employee by
    the end of the project, has by far exceeded the target of 230 connections per employee
    initially set for 2007.
·   ONEA's annual financial reports are being prepared timely in accordance to international
    standards.
·   The financial equilibrium of the urban water sector was restored in 2006 as initially expected.
    This means that ONEA is since then able to fully cover its operational and maintenance costs
    (O&M) and the debt service associated to its capital expenditures programs (Capex) without
    Government subsidies. The net cashflow of ONEA has quite tripled in six years from CFAF3
    billion (US$6 million) in 2001 to CFAF8 billion in 2007 (US$17 million), representing 39
    percent of water sales.

The above Key Performance Indicators as set in the PAD, are the parameters agreed at project
appraisal for assessing the achievement of project development objectives in terms of: (i) access
to adequate and reliable drinking water in Ouagadougou, and (ii) the improvement of the urban
water sector management.

In addition, the ICR has also analyzed the level of achievement of the Sector-related CAS Goal
to increase the ratio of access to safe water in the entire urban perimeter covered by ONEA
from 54 percent in 1994 to 75 percent in 2005 and thereafter. At project completion, significant


1The calculation: (30,000 people served in 2001) + (56,000 new connections) x10 = 860,000 persons, is
based on a ratio of 10 persons served by one household water connection which is the same ratio that was
used at project appraisal. This ratio that is a common base in Sub-Saharan Africa has been also adopted by
the Government in the National Water & Sanitation Millennium Program (PN-AEPA) to monitor urban
water MDGs in Burkina Faso. Had we consider the ratio of 8.8 persons served per connection from the
household survey conducted in 2003 by the Consortium Marketing ISL/HydroConseil, the number of
people served through private connections in Ouagadougou would have been 792,800, representing 99
percent of the EOPT.



                                                     10

progress has been made toward achieving this goal, as the ratio of access to safe water in urban
centers is estimated at 74 percent in December 2007, representing 99 percent of the initial target;
which is a decisive step towards achieving urban water Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)
in 2015.


3.3 Efficiency

The project has been subject of an ex-post economic and financial analysis. As was the case at
appraisal, with and without scenarios were defined to identify incremental project costs and
benefits and to evaluate the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and the Financial Rate of Return
(FRR) as the main indicators of efficiency.


The ex-post economic evaluation shows an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 11.1 percent
against 10.5 percent at project appraisal, representing an increase of 0.6 percent. The ex-post
financial analysis shows a Financial Rate of Return (FRR) of 9 percent against 8.4 percent at
project appraisal, also representing an increase of 0.6 percent. This improvement is the result of
the full achievement of project development objectives as evidenced by the level of performance
indicators. It also confirms that assumptions made at project appraisal were right and based on
clear and detailed technical studies, and that project costs were efficiently mastered while benefits
increased as a result of more people having access to water. The methodology and results of the
ex-post economic and financial analysis are presented in Annex 3.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall outcome is rated highly satisfactory because the project has achieved or surpassed
all its stated development performance indicators. In addition, it successfully turned around
ONEA, a public water utility, and closed the gap on: the level of access to improved water
services, reliability of the service, operational efficiency (UFW & bill collection ratios) and
sustainability (financial equilibrium) with best performing water utilities in the region (Côte
d'Ivoire, Senegal, Niger) which are all entirely managed by private operators.


The project's DO and IP ratings in the ISRs were belatedly upgraded from "Satisfactory" to
"Highly Satisfactory", because the bulk implementation of the social connections and standpipes
program, and correlatively the significant increase of the number of people gaining access to
piped water thanks to the project, happened during the second half of 2007.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Through the successful implementation of the Social Connections and Standpipes Program
(construction of 56,000 subsidized water connections2 and 400 public standpipes), the project
provided access to safe water to about 680,0003 additional people mostly living in peri-urban
areas of Ouagadougou and belonging to low-income groups. As a result of the increased water
production and network rehabilitation programs, service quality has considerably improved so



2
  Under the "social connection program", beneficiaries are required to pay a reduced amount of CFAF
30,000 which represents only 24% of the real cost of the connection (CFAF 125,000).

3
  56,000 connections x 10 pers/conn + 400 standpipes x 120 pers/stp = 680,000 additional person served.



                                                   11

that there are no longer frequent water distribution interruptions as it was the case before the
project. These improvements especially benefiting the poor have improved basic hygiene
practices and thus will contribute to the reduction of water-related diseases.

The satisfactory implementation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) has
improved living conditions of the population affected by the construction of the Ziga Dam.
38,000 people benefited from improved living conditions including: (i) improved rain fed
agricultural production and development of small-scale irrigation for horticulture; (ii) six new
schools and twenty health centers (including epidemiological monitoring centers for malaria and
bilharzias); (iii) improved drinking water supply in rural areas (44 new boreholes and
rehabilitation of 54 existing ones); (iv) 247 public sanitation facilities and 1,440 household
latrines; and (v) increased income through aquaculture development, improved mobility through
construction of rural roads (140 km) and access to new income generating activities such as
irrigated agriculture and beekeeping.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Six annual consumer satisfaction surveys were conducted during project implementation to assess
beneficiary satisfaction with the project impacts. Each survey focussed on 10 ONEA operation
centers (six permanent centers - Banfora, Bobo-Dioulasso, Kaya, Koudougou, Ouagadougou,
Ouahigouya - and four other selected centers). The surveys measured the satisfaction of the
consumers with respect to: (i) general appreciation of ONEA and its corporate image; (ii)
reliability and continuity of the service; (iii) quality of the water distributed and level of water
tariffs; (iv) service quality at ONEA's decentralized offices; and (v) communication with
consumers. Results of the surveys show that overall consumer satisfaction of services offered by
ONEA in Ouagadougou has improved steadily during the course of the project. Results of the
2007 survey show that 85 percent of customers in Ouagadougou are satisfied or highly satisfied.
Particularly, there is significant customer satisfaction with: (i) the quality of the water and the
availability of water (80% satisfaction); (ii) the decrease in the cost of a private connection from
125,000 FCFA to 30.000 FCFA in the social connections program; and (iii) the availability and
quality of services offered by ONEA's staff (approximately 75% satisfied or highly satisfied).

The surveys also revealed weaknesses in the following areas: (i) the time spent by customers at
ONEA's teller when paying their water bill at the end of the month, (ii) occasional unavailability
of coins at the cashiers when customers paying their bills are looking for their change back; (iii)
addressing the needs of customers on the verge to be disconnected for lack of water consumption
for many months in a row, and (iv) slowness in resolving water scarcity issues in some of the
other urban centers. ONEA is aware of these issues and has started resolving them; for instance to
reduce the time spent by consumers at the tellers, ten (10) new teller offices were installed and
ONEA signed an agreement with the National Post Office and one commercial bank (BCB) to
collect payments of water bills on its behalf in Ouagadougou. Annex 5 presents the detailed
results of the 2007 beneficiary surveys for the city of Ouagadougou.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The Risk to Development Outcome is rated Negligible to Low

The successful implementation of this large investment program including the coordination of so
many donors has tested the technical capacity of ONEA which has in the same time significantly
increased its commercial and financial management capacity as a result of the project. The urban
water sector has become financially autonomous and is now able to fully cover, without


                                                   12

Government subsidies, its operational and maintenance costs (O&M) as well as the debt service
associated to its capital expenditures programs (Capex); which is quite an achievement for a
public water utility in Sub-Saharan Africa.

A new tariff study was conducted in late 2007: (i) to re-assess the water consumption patterns and
the water demand elasticity taking into account the significant increase of household connections
in Ougadougou and (ii) to determine the impact that the envisaged investment program in 2009-
2015 would have on water tariffs. The study concluded that to maintain the financial equilibrium
of the sector, tariffs will need to be increased smoothly during the coming years following the
inflation rate estimated at 2.5%. Another prerequisite for sustained financial autonomy is that
State agencies' water bills be paid regularly on time. The Government is committed to pay its
water bills and to apply the agreed tariff policy.

In the future, there is no reason for the Government to renegade his past engagements considering
the success achieved by the sector reform. Its relations with ONEA will continue to be governed
by a "Contrat-Plan" (management delegation contract) and a Performance Contract, granting a
proper degree of autonomy to the water utility to fully manage the sector without Governmental
interference. The two parties also decided to maintain the current accountability framework
including the usse of external consultants to audit the Performance Contract and the financial
model.

Donors are all appreciative of the success achieved by the project and the impact of their
involvement in the urban water sector in Burkina Faso. As a result, they are lining up to support
the follow-up national water and sanitation program (PN-AEPA) to assist the Government's
efforts towards achieving urban water MDGs in Burkina Faso.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

The Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
Satisfactory. The project was consistent with the Government's development priorities and the
Bank's CAS. The Bank team covered in-depth social and environmental aspects while properly
designing technical and institutional aspects of the project. Major risk factors were identified and
mitigation measures proposed. Lessons learned from earlier projects in the region were
considered and incorporated into the design. The project was designed in such a way that planned
outcomes could be achieved without major revisions during project implementation. Because of
the Bank's long experience supporting implementation of similar multi-donor sector reform
operations, its role was critical for the successful implementation of the sector reform: (i) through
its convening power to ensure that other donors participate in project preparation and funding, (ii)
ensuring the soundness of the operation because of its technical credibility and past experience;
and (iii) ensuring that governance and fiduciary issues are properly addressed because of its long
standing track record in these areas .

(b) Quality of Supervision

The Bank performance during supervision was Satisfactory
The project team has conducted 18 supervision missions in six years, representing an average of
three missions per year; higher than the Bank's standard average of two missions per year. There


                                                  13

was a high level of continuity in the project team which always included the necessary skills to
cover the relevant supervision topics. There were two TTLs between appraisal and project closure
and the change in TTL was only triggered by the promotion of the previous one in a managerial
position.

Supervision missions were carried out as planned and were mainly focused on project impact
assessment and its evolution toward achieving development objectives, by monitoring: (i) the
levels of key performance indicators, (ii) the implementation status of the project components,
(iii) the execution of the Service Contract between ONEA and the private operator, (iv) the
financial model of the sector and the application of the tariff policy; (v) the execution of the
Credit Agreement; and (vi) the implementation of the Environmental and Social Action Plan.

IDA supervision missions were systematically coordinated with other donors and planned to
coincide with the annual meetings of the "Supervision Committee". Aide-memoires were
completed in a timely manner and always included recommendations on priority actions to be
taken by ONEA. In addition, the task team continuously reminded parties to comply with their
engagements, particularly the Government with respect to the payment of its water bills. The
Bank demonstrated flexibility by agreeing to one reallocation of funds which eventually
strengthened the achievement of project development objectives. Finally, it is to be noted that
there was no extension of the project closing date which is quite remarkable for a program of this
size addressing key reforms as restoring the financial sustainability of the urban water sector.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

In view of the Bank's performance at entry and during supervision, the ICR rates the overall
performance of the Bank as Satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Government's performance is rated Highly Satisfactory.
The project was high in the country's priorities for the water sector and the Government was
therefore strongly committed to achieving the development objectives. The Government granted
full autonomy to ONEA to implement the entire project, and complied with all of its
commitments as stated in the Credit Agreement including, notably, the adoption of an appropriate
tariff policy and the regular payment of State agencies' water bills.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The Implementing Agency Performance is Highly Satisfactory.
ONEA was the Project Implementing Agency and was directly responsible for the capacity
building and institutional strengthening activities. A project unit MOZ-ONEA (within ONEA)
was responsible for implementing the capital investment program. At the end of the project, the
entire IDA credit as well as funds from other donors (more than US$200 million) was fully
disbursed and all project components were implemented timely and satisfactorily. ONEA/MOZ
properly organized Bank supervision missions and donor meetings, ensured permanent liaison
with the Bank and provided timely response to the recommendations of supervision missions. The
management of ONEA has been also very effective in producing reports on the project
implementation and the execution of the Service Contract.




                                                 14

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

In view of the Government's and Implementing Agency's performance, the ICR rates the
overall performance of the Borrower as Highly Satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

·   Public water utilities can deliver on impressive technical and operational performance. The
    performance achieved by ONEA in the management of the urban water sector with regard to
    bills collection efficiency, reduction of non revenue water and restoration of the financial
    sustainability of the sector, is a recognition that public water utilities can deliver on results for
    their customers. This is also the recognition that the public-private opposition on delivery of
    water services is part of an artificial debate. The most important issue to be addressed is not
    the nature of the operator but the existence of critical conditions for operators to deliver on
    their commitments. These conditions include the presence of qualified and dedicated staff
    under a clear framework between the state and operators driven by the basic principles of
    autonomy, accountability and transparency.

·   Service contracts have the ability to improve service performance and should be included
    in the menu of PSP options. There are different models of Private Sector Participation (PSP)
    that may fit depending on the context of the country and the situation of the sector. In that
    respect, the ONEA's Service Contract has proved to be efficient in improving commercial
    and financial efficiency and transferring know-how and skills. Factors that contributed to the
    success of this Service Contract include: (i) the limited and targeted scope of the intervention;
    (ii) performance incentives linking remuneration of the private operator to the achievement of
    measurable performance indicators; and (iii) regular contract monitoring by an independent
    auditor assuring transparency and neutrality in the auditing process and the calculation of the
    remuneration of the private partner.

·   Strong political commitment and leadership is essential to a successful water sector reform.
    Political commitment and strong Government leadership are essential prerequisites for
    successful water institutional reforms. How to measure this leadership has long been debated.
    Government timely paying its water bills which can represent between 20 and 25 percent of
    the utilities' turnovers, agreeing on a tariff policy based on full cost recovery, beginning to
    implement it at an early stage of the reform process and accepting its application on an annual
    basis, are clear triggers to monitor that commitment. In Burkina Faso, these conditions were
    met early during the project and during project implementation. Showing quick results and
    performance improvement early on during the process are also critical to support that
    leadership.

·   An urban water sector reform to improve sector performance without financing
    investments is prone to failure. Changes in operational performance, improving commercial
    and financial efficiency to restore financial equilibrium could not take place without more
    people getting access to water and the improvement of the service for current customers.
    Investments financing is critical for any reform package to address production capacity
    constraints, limited water distribution networks and high technical losses that many water
    utilities in developing countries are facing to properly deliver their services. The Burkina
    Faso urban water sector reform was accompanied by an important investment program which
    resulted in doubling the water production capacity in Ouagadougou and expanding water
    distribution networks by 30%. This full implementation of this investment program was



                                                   15

    essential to the successful reform that took place in Burkina Faso. In that respect, the
    financial model that was developed at the onset of the project, has been a powerful tool to
    optimize investments and assess required operational efficiency gains consistent with the
    financial equilibrium of the sector and socially acceptable tariffs.

·   Cost recovery can be achieved in difficult conditions as this has been the case in Burkina
    Faso, one of the poorest countries in the World. Ranked 176 out of 177 countries in the
    2007 Human Development Index (HDI) and a US$430 GDP/capita, Burkina Faso is one of
    the poorest countries in the world. The country's location in the Sahel region makes water a
    scare commodity which needs to be properly managed and lack of alternative water resources
    has increased awareness and the importance of cost recovery. Improving the efficiency of the
    water utility while matching investment programs to the real needs of the sector, has helped
    achieving cost recovery with tariff increases acceptable to the population.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See Annex 7 - Summary of Borrower's ICR and Comments.

(b) Cofinanciers

The draft ICR was submitted for review to co-financiers. Comments received are included in the
project files. Donors' comments mainly focussed on: (i) praising the quality of the ICR and the
highly satisfactory outcome of the project which they consider as a best practice model, (ii)
commending ONEA and the Government for their dedication to the project, (iii) emphasizing the
necessity in the future to continue applying the agreed tariff policy and for the Government to pay
regularly its water bills, and (iv) reiterating their willingness to support Government's efforts
towards achieving urban water MDGs through the National Program for Water Supply and
Sanitation (PN-AEPA).

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The implementation completion report of the Service Contract prepared by the Consortium
Veolia-Mazars has been included in the project files




                                                    16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
                                        Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest             Percentage of
         IDA Components
                                               (US$M)            Estimate (US$M)               Appraisal
Infrastructure                                      52.05                  66.97                  129
Technical Assistance                                 6.09                    7.96                 131
Capacity Building and
                                                     8.15                  10.67                  131
Institutional Strengthening



              Total Baseline Cost                   66.29                  85.60                  129

Physical & Price Contingencies                       3.31
                                                                             0.00                 0.00
               Total Project Costs                  69.60                  85.60                  123
Front-end fee PPF                                    0.40                    0.25                  63
Front-end fee IBRD                                   0.00                    0.00                 0.00
      Total Financing Required                      70.00                  85.85                  123



(b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal Actual/LatestPercentage of
                                                 Type of
           Source of Funds                                      Estimate           Estimate       Appraisal
                                               Financing
                                                                (US$M)             (US$M)
African Development Bank                     Loan             6.67              6.73            101
Arab Bank for Economic
                                             Loan/ Grant
Development in Africa                                         8.44              11.96           142
Borrower                                     NA               5.36              8.81            164
EC: European Development Fund
(EDF)                                        Grant            23.18             32.00           138
EC: European Investment Bank                 Loan             20.71             16.72           81
FRANCE: French Agency for
Development (AFD)                            Loan/grant       27.83             37.61           135
International Development
Association (IDA)                            Loan /grant      70.00             85.97           123
Islamic Development Bank                     Loan /grant      6.85              10.87           159
KUWAIT: Kuwait Fund for Arab
                                             Loan /grant
Economic Development                                          9.76              16,64           171
GERMANY: Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW)                           Grant            18.30             24.11           132
OPEC FUND                                    Loan /grant      6.95              8.10            117
West African Development Bank                Loan             1.83              9.83            537
Total financing                                               205.88            269.37          131
Note: 1 US$ = 640 CFAF at appraisal (July, 2000); 1 US$ = 506 CFAF at project closing date (December, 2007)




                                                       17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project outputs          Output indicator from    Realisation at project Level of achievement
                         PAD                      completion
Increased reliability of Constructed              Constructed            100%
water distribution in    additional storage       Boudtenga reservoir
Ouagadougou;             capacity of 5,400 m3.    with a capacity of
extended and more                                 5,400 m3.
accessible network
                         Length of network        Length of network      Extension of
                         constructed              constructed :          secondary networks:
                         ·   210 km of            ·   171 km of          81% realized, and
                             secondary                secondary          extension tertiary
                             networks; and            networks ; and     networks: 120%
                         ·   1,200 km of          ·   1,437 km of        realized.
                             tertiary networks.       tertiary networks.
                                                                         When considering the
                                                                         secondary and tertiary
                                                                         distribution networks
                                                                         together, then the
                                                                         percentage of
                                                                         achievement is 114%.
Increased number of      Number of new            Number of new          New connections
connections and          connections installed:   connections installed: 124% realized and
improved access to       45,000                   56,000.                stand posts 100%
stand posts              Number of new stand      Number of new stand    realized.
                         posts: 400               posts: 400

Improved                 Average time between 30 days                    NA, because the
management of            meter reading and                               billing cycle of ONEA
commercial               invoicing (from 30                              is one month (30
operations and           days to 15 days at the                          days).
strengthened financial   end of 2004 and
capacity                 thereafter);

                         Metered consumption      99%                    104%
                         increased (from over
                         90% to over 95% at
                         the end of 2004 and
                         thereafter;

Improved                 Computerized             The existing system    Delayed for technical
management of            administrative system    has been significantly reasons: (i) IDA could
commercial               for billing, collection, improved and is        not approve the
operations and           receivables,             functioning properly.  acquisition on a sole
strengthened financial   complaints tracking      The procurement        source basis of a new
capacity                 and accounting in        process for the        system compatible
                         place at the end of      acquisition of new     with the existing one;
                         2003;                    computerized system    (ii) ONEA decided
                                                  (financed by ONEA)     ultimately to delay the



                                                 18

                       is underway with a    process to harmonize
                       view to have the      the new billing system
                       system operational by with its recently
                       end of 2009.          developed information
                                             communication
                                             system.
New connections        Realized              100%
policy and procedures
in place at the end of
2002;

Inventory              Realized              100%
management program
for connection
equipment and meters
in place by January
31, 2003;

Computerized cost      Realized              100%
accounting system in
place by January
2003;

ONEA's financial       Realized              100%
management
information system in
place by June 2002;

Training program       Realized              100%
developed by June 30,
2002.




                      19

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project was subject of an ex-post economic and financial analysis. As at appraisal, with and
without scenarios were defined to identify incremental project costs and benefits and to evaluate
the Economic Rate of Return (ERR), Financial Rate of Return (FRR) and Net Present Value
(NPV) as the main indicators of efficiency. Given the expected economic life of civil works under
the capital investment component, the analysis was modelled over 30 years (2000-2030). Main
assumptions and results are summarized below. More details can be found in the project files:
"Ziga Project ex-post evaluation report" ­ Consortium ICEA- SOGREAH, May, 2008.

                  Indicators              Appraisal (2000)           Ex-post (2007)

          Investment costs             132 712 M FCFA             159 863 M FCFA

          Investment costs for the     104 238 M FCFA             131 804 M FCFA
          calculation of the ERR (*)

          Long term incremental             434 FCFA/m3              835 FCFA/m3
          cost @10%                          (2000 costs)                 (2007)
                                            500 FCFA/m3
                                             (2007 costs)
          Long term incremental                                      469 FCFA/m3
          cost @5%                                                    ( 2007 costs)

          Present value @ 10%             3 280 M FCFA               8 148 M FCFA

          ERR (base case)                      10,5%                      11,0%

          Water demand ­ 10%                    9,5%                      10,4%
          (sensitivity test)

          FRR (base case)                       8,4%                      9,0%

          Water demand ­ 10%                    7,4%                      5,1%
          (sensitivity test)

        (*) Works completed before project appraisal such as the dam and auxiliary facilities,
        were treated as sunk cost and were therefore not accounted for in the calculations

The ex-post economic evaluation shows an ERR of 11.1 percent against 10.5 percent at project
appraisal, representing an increase of 0.6 percent. The ex-post financial analysis shows a FRR of
9 percent against 8.4 percent at project appraisal, also representing an increase of 0.6 percent.
This improvement is the result of the full achievement of project development objectives, also
evidenced by the realized level of performance indicators. It also confirms that project appraisal
assumptions were right and based on clear and detailed technical studies, and that project costs
were efficiently mastered while benefits increased as a result of more people having access to
water. Finally, it is worth mentioning that there are many un-quantified benefits attributed
directly to the project (improvement of public health, reduced morbidity, and socio-economic
benefits from the implementation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan in the Ziga
Dam valley) that have not been taken into account in the economic and financial analysis.




                                                20

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



    (605)      Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                          Speciality
Lending
Eustache Ouayoro          Sector Manager                      AFTU2 TTL
Aguiratou Savadogo-Tinto  Operations Officer                 AFTTR
Robert A. Robelus         Environmental Specialist           AFTEG
Claude P. Sorel           Sr. Private Sect. Dev. Specialist   AFTU2
Mamadou Yaro              Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Armele Vilceus            Language Team Assistant
Aissata Z. Zerbo          Procurement Analyst                 AFTU2
J. Renkewitz              Financial Analyst
Pascale H. Dubois         Lawyer


Supervision/ICR
Matar Fall                Lead Water & Sanitation Spec.      ETWWA TTL
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour Sr. Social Scientist                 AFTCS
William Dakpo             Procurement Spec.                  AFTPC
Robert A. Robelus         Environmental Specialist           AFTEG
Aguiratou Savadogo-Tinto  Operations Officer                 AFTTR
Claude P. Sorel           Sr. Private Sect. Dev. Specialist  AFTU2
Armele Vilceus            Language Program Assistant         AFTU2
Mamadou Yaro              Sr Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Kolie Ousmane M. Megnan   Financial management Specialist    AFTFM
Aissata Z. Zerbo          Procurement Analyst                AFTU2
Seydou Traoré             Water & Sanitation Specialist      WSP
Elisabeth Marie Bambara   Team Assistant                     AFMBF
Charlotte Anthony         Team Assistant / Procurement       AFTU2
Wolfgang Chadab           Sr. Finance Officer                LOAFC
Michel de Marigny         Finance Analyst                    LOADM
Helene Bertaud            Sr Council                         LEGAF
Jean Vincent Koua         Temporary                          AFTU2



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY92                                                                   0.28
   FY93                                                                  24.33
   FY94                                                                   0.15
   FY95                                                                  49.03



                                            21

 FY96                               125.14
 FY97                               148.87
 FY98                                93.51
 FY99                               115.53
 FY00                         31    155.61
 FY01                         30    115.32
 FY02                                 0.00
 FY03                                 0.00
 FY04                                 0.00
 FY05                                 0.00
 FY06                                 0.00
 FY07                                 0.00
 FY08                                 0.00


                   Total:     61    827.77
Supervision/ICR
 FY92                                 0.00
 FY93                                 0.00
 FY94                                 0.00
 FY95                                 0.00
 FY96                                 0.00
 FY97                                 0.00
 FY98                                 0.00
 FY99                                 0.00
 FY00                                 0.14
 FY01                                 0.00
 FY02                         21    122.46
 FY03                         16     86.18
 FY04                         14     75.62
 FY05                         15    107.80
 FY06                         25    100.98
 FY07                         18     73.42
 FY08                          3     38.74


                   Total:    112    605.34




                            22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The table below presents the beneficiary survey results for the city of Ouagadougou.
The interviewed households were divided in the following four categories:
       1. Households with private connections;
       2. Households taking water at public taps;
       3. Households buying water from water vendors;
       4. Households taking water from other sources.

Theme                             Not at all     Slightly     Moderately     Satisfied Highly
                                  satisfied      satisfied    satisfied                satisfied
1 General perception of
  ONEA and its corporate
  image
          All 4 household              0%           3%             12%         63%       22%
          categories together
          Households with              0%           2%             13%         65%       20%
          private connections
          Households taking            0%           1%             13%         62%       24%
          water at public taps
          Households buying            0%           2%             11%         61%       26%
          water from water
          vendors
          Household taking             0%           0%             7%          76%       17%
          water from other
          sources
2 Satisfaction with respect to
  the availability of water
      During the dry season
          Households with              2%           6%             25%         57%       10%
          private connections
          Households taking            5%          13%             24%         53%        5%
          water at public taps
      During the rainy season
          Households with              0%           0%             3%          62%       35%
          private connections
          Households taking            2%           0%             3%          64%       31%
          water at public taps
3 Satisfaction with respect to
  the quality of water
      During the dry season
          Households with              4%           0%             17%         64%       15%
          private connections
          Households taking            6%           0%             21%         69%        4%
          water at public taps
          Households buying            1%           4%             20%         65%       10%
          water from water
          vendors




                                              23

Theme                           Not at all  Slightly  Moderately Satisfied Highly
                                satisfied   satisfied satisfied            satisfied
     During the rainy season
        Households with             4%         0%         17%      64%       15%
        private connections
        Households taking           3%         0%         14%      69%       14%
        water at public taps
        Households buying           1%         5%         20%      62%       12%
        water from water
        vendors
4 Satisfaction with respect to
  the price of water
        Households with             8%        15%         31%      43%        3%
        private connections
        Households taking           3%         9%         23%      57%        8%
        water at public taps
5 Satisfaction with respect to
  the distribution network
     Households taking water
     at public taps
        Number of public taps       11%         -         21%      68%          -
        in the area
        Distance to public          11%         -         11%      78%          -
        taps
6 Satisfaction with respect to
  interventions of ONEA
        Waiting time for cost       5%          -         12%      83%          -
        estimate for private
        connection
        Waiting time for            8%          -         10%      82%          -
        installation of private
        connection
        Quality of private          5%          -          4%      91%          -
        connections
        Meter reading               1%          -          3%      96%          -
        Quality of service          23%         -         14%      63%          -
        offered by the agents
        of ONEA
        Meter replacement           19%         -          6%      75%          -
7 Satisfaction with respect to
  the quality of service at the
  pay offices
        Accessibility               5%          -          6%      89%          -
        Opening hours               7%          -         13%      80%          -
        Waiting time                30%         -         30%      40%          -
        Friendliness of the         7%          -         11%      82%          -
        agents of ONEA




                                           24

Theme                       Not at all  Slightly  Moderately Satisfied Highly
                            satisfied   satisfied satisfied            satisfied
      Appearance and            11%         -         14%      75%          -
      cleanliness of the
      offices
      Presence of furniture     19%         -         27%      54%          -
      in the offices
      Provision of              1%          -          6%      93%          -
      information




                                       25

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

            OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (ZIGA PROJECT)



                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface

The Ouagadougou Water Supply Project (commonly called Ziga project) was launched in 1994
with the aim of improving the drinking water supply in the city of Ouagadougou. The project is
the result of several studies that started in 1984. In 1996, a project unit known as the Ziga Project
Unit was established within the National Water and Sanitation Utility [Office National de l'Eau et
de l'Assainissement ONEA] and assigned the main task of implementation of the Ouagadougou
Water Supply Project (OWSP).

I. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND START UP

1.1 Background

       1.1.1   Political Context

On June 2, 1991, after eight years of emergency rule, Burkina Faso became a Republic once more
through a referendum approving the Constitution of the Republic. The restoration of democracy
ushered in a multi-party system, the organization of free and fair elections, and freedom of the
press.

       1.1.2   Economic and Social Situation

The economic situation in Burkina Faso, as in many other Sub-Saharan African countries was
difficult. Agriculture accounted for 80 percent of economic activity, with the remainder being
divided between the secondary and tertiary sectors.

In 1990, the country adopted a structural adjustment program, which resulted in divestiture of the
State from parastatal enterprises. The majority of these enterprises were in a shaky financial
situation and the State subsidies provided to them had steadily increased over time.

The devaluation of the CFAF in 1994 only resulted to worsen the situation faced by enterprises.
It was against this backdrop that the Government, on the recommendation of the International
Monetary Fund and World Bank, set itself the objective of ending subsidies to public enterprises,
improving their efficiency, and paving the way for their privatization.

       1.1.3   Situation and Major Problems

Since the post-independence era, urban water and sanitation public service in the big cities as well
as in the secondary cities of Burkina Faso had always been provided by ONEA. Up until 1996,
ONEA was mired in serious management and administrative problems. It had even stopped
producing financial statements.

In addition, Ouagadougou was facing serious drinking water supply shortages. At that time and
until 2003, Ouagadougou was supplied with surface water (from the Tanghin and Loumbila


                                                  26

dams) and ground water (from approximately one hundred boreholes). Improving
Ouagadougou's drinking water supply was becoming imperative; hence the launching of the
Ouagadougou Water Supply Project.

Immediate investment needs to address the problem were estimated at CFAF 116 billion to build
a dam at Ziga, boost production capacity and transport water to Ouagadougou, build secondary
and tertiary networks, and establish connections.

In addition, the failure by the Government to pay its bills in a timely manner was adding a host on
ONEA's cash flow problems.



1.1.4 The Institutional Framework of the project



By means of Terms of Reference letter No. 96-305/MEE of April 17, 1996, the Minister of Water
issued a clear mandate to the Director General of ONEA to establish the Ziga Project Unit
[Maîtrise d'Ouvrage de Ziga MOZ]. This letter resulted in the adoption of:

    o Decree No. 96-346/PRES/PM/MEE of September 24, 1996, establishing the Ziga Project
        Unit.
    o Decision No. 97-015/MEE/SAG/ONEA/MOZ of December 9, 1997, organizing and
        setting up the Ziga Project Unit and outlining the mission, powers, organization, and
        tasks of the Ziga Project Unit.

The December 29, 1997 delegation of powers from the Director General of ONEA to the Ziga
Project Unit sets forth the prerogatives and responsibilities of the Director of the MOZ. The
result was the establishment of the Ziga Project Unit with ONEA as a temporary entity.
Hierarchically, it was at the Central Directorate level and was granted administrative and
financial autonomy.



1-2. Project Objectives

The general objectives of the project were to:

    a) Expand access to the sources of safe and adequate drinking water in Ouagadougou by
        installing new water storage facilities, extending the secondary and tertiary water supply
        networks, connecting low-income households to the water supply network and also
        providing them with standpipes, and encouraging the streamlining of water supply
        operations in urban centers through capacity building within ONEA.

    b) Improve the management of the water sector in urban areas by transferring ONEA's
        commercial, financial, and accounting operations to a Private Operator through a Service
        Contract.

1-3 Project Components

The project included four main components, broken down into subcomponents or items:

        Component A: Infrastructure



                                                 27

        a) Construction of the Boudtenga storage facility, with a capacity of 5,400m3, laying of
              approximately 20 km of 1,000 mm diameter transmission main linking the Ziga dam to
              the Boudtenga storage facility, and laying of approximately 23 km of 1,000 mm diameter
              transmission main linking the Boudtenga storage facility to Ouagadougou (Item 2);
        b) Construction of approximately 210 km of secondary distribution networks and 1200 km
              of tertiary distribution networks and installation of approximately 45,000 connections and
              400 standpipes (Item 6);
        c) Construction of an earth dam in Ziga of approximately 3,154 m and a maximum height of
              18.80 m, as well as a 20 km access road and a storage facility with a 200 million m3
              capacity and a raw water pumping station (SP1) capacity of approximately 3,150 m3 per
              hour (Item 1);
        d) Construction of a treatment plant and a pumping station (Item 3) with a water
              transmission main of 1,000 mm diameter and 2,4 km length to transport raw water to the
              treatment plant made of two modules of 1,500 m3 per hour for the first tranche, including
              the following phases: prechlorination, sedimentation, filtration, neutralization and
              chlorination, equipment of the SP1 pumping plant, the construction of storage facilities or
              water towers, and provision of equipment to the treated water pumping station (SP2)
              (Item 5);
        e) Construction of a primary distribution system of approximately 60 km, composed of
              three networks: North, Central, and South (Item 4); and
        f) Construction of a 33 KV power supply line of 32 km from Ziniaré to the Ziga dam, as
              well as the supply of connection materials (Item 8).

  Component B: Technical Assistance

  Provision of technical assistance related to the supervision of the physical works under the Project, with the exception of supervision
  related to the construction of the Ziga dam (Item 9).

  Component C: Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening of ONEA

              a) Training of selected ONEA staff in the technical, commercial, administrative,
                   and financial management of water utilities;
              b) Outsourcing of the administrative, commercial, accounting, and financial operations
                   of ONEA to the private sector operator through a Service Contract; and
              c) Improving the commercial, accounting, and financial operations of ONEA by making
                   working capital available to the private operator for such purposes as: (i) purchasing
                   and replacing metering systems and repairing leaking connections; (ii) acquiring
                   computer equipment and software for computerized administrative, commercial, and
                   management systems and purchasing portable meter readers; and (iii) conducting
                   customer surveys, hygiene education, and marketing activities.

  Component D: Government Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan

  The Government Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan includes the following subcomponents:
 i.     Plan to Resettle and Compensate Affected Populations (PRIPA): the objective of this
        subcomponent is to ensure the resettlement of displaced persons in appropriate
        socioeconomic conditions and/or to adopt measures to compensate populations for losses
        sustained.
ii.     Rural Infrastructure Construction Plan (PCIR): The following are the main objectives of
        this subcomponent:
        -     Ensure improved circulation of people and goods by building access roads;


                                                                    28

       -   Improve access by populations to basic social infrastructure by building school
           complexes; and
       -   Improve access by the population to drinking water by providing boreholes.
iii.   Plans to Mitigate Biophysical Impacts (PAIB) and Return to a Revenue Generating
       Situation (PRR): The PAIB contains a series of measures aimed at offsetting deforestation
       and stemming from soil erosion through appropriate management; while the PRR focuses on
       restoring the productive capacity of farms and developing a variety of economic activities.
iv.    Plan to Mitigate Health Impacts (PAIS) is aimed at protecting the health of populations
       through improved access to well-equipped health facilities and sound epidemiological
       surveillance.
 v.    Ziga Downstream Mitigation Plan (PAAZ) is aimed at developing activities downstream of
       the dam.
vi.    Establishment and Rehabilitation of Hydro-agricultural Facilities: this subcomponent is
       aimed at finding a palliative solution to the banning of market gardening in areas close to the
       Ziga dam and preserving the water quality of the dam.

   II. PROJECT DESIGN, EXECUTION, IMPLEMENTATION, AND IMPACT

   2-1 Evaluation of Project Design

   Project design is rated as highly satisfactory by the Government of Burkina Faso. Indeed, the
   investment program is considered critical to ensuring the success of the project, particularly
   among the people of Ouagadougou, in particular the poorest groups that have been able to gain
   access to better water and sanitation services.

   2-2 Main results obtained in each project component

   Component A: Infrastructure
           -   Building of the dam and related work;
           -   Construction of the Boudtenga storage facility and the laying of transmission mains;
           -   Construction of the treatment plant and a pumping station;
           -   Construction of a primary distribution network;
           -   Construction of eight water towers, ten water storage facilities, and pumping stations;
           -   Establishment of the secondary and tertiary network;
           -   Provision of 56,000 subsidized connections [branchements sociaux], (16,000 of
               which were financed by the African Development Fund); and
           -   Provision of 400 standpipes.

   Component B: Technical Assistance

   Oversight of work in the "infrastructure" component (with the exception of the dam and related
   work) was performed by the Group of Consulting Engineers LI-STUDI-KCIC-BERA.

   Component C: Capacity Building and Institutional Strengthening of ONEA

           -   Institutional support provided to ONEA (financial, accounting, and commercial
               management system, procurement of computer equipment and software, carrying out
               a consumer survey, etc.); and
           -   Capacity building (training).




                                                     29

   Component D: Government Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan

 i.  Plan to Resettle and Compensate Affected Populations (PRIPA):
   - Preparation of reception sites and reconstruction of homes;
   - Transfer and resettlement of 8,519 persons; and
   - Provision of food aid.
ii.  Rural Infrastructure Construction Plan (PCIR) :
     -    Building of 92,895 km of rural roads;
     -    Construction of six school complexes; and
     -    Provision of 44 new and rehabilitation of 54 existing boreholes;
iii. Plans to Mitigate Biophysical Impacts (PAIB) and Return to a Revenue Generating
     Situation (PRR):
   - Building of 542.8 ha of stone barriers and 1,775 composting pits;
   - Provision of 2,394 sacks of Burkina phosphate in order to enhance the quality of compost;
   - Reforestation of 63.5 ha through tree planting, 41,600 linear meters of protective guard strips
     along bodies of water, and 19,500 linear meters of reforestation along water mains;
   - Provision of 247 community facilities for water use and sanitation and 1,439 household
     latrines;
   - Institutional capacity building: establishment of 16 village-level land management
     committees (CVGTs), strengthening of the local project unit and executing agency by
     training 41 CVGTs in the areas of monitoring, techniques related to the negotiation of
     financing and identification ­ preparation of microprojects, etc.;
   - Building expertise: 2,792 persons trained in a variety of areas such as literacy, composting
     techniques, soap production, fattening techniques, beekeeping techniques, processing of
     fisheries products, fisheries technology, etc.;
   - Establishment of two soap-making facilities, fifteen vaccination yards, twelve boreholes for
     pastoral use, and six jetties;
   - Development and use of 103 ha of lowlands;
   - Fattening of 259 cattle and 219 sheep and goats;
   - Promotion of beekeeping activities (equipment and training); and
   - Provision of a variety of equipment: 128 fattening workshop kits, 123 fisheries kits, 1,121
     donkey carts, and 1,053 water carts;
iv.  Plan to Mitigate Health Impacts (PAIS) :
   - New construction: four Centers for Health and Social Advancement (CSPS), one Nutritional
     Rehabilitation Center (CREN), one laboratory, four warehouses for essential generic drugs
     (MEGs), eighteen dwellings, one dispensary;
   - Rehabilitation: five dispensaries and three maternity wards;
   - Mobile equipment: Eleven Yahama motorcycles and three outfitted ambulances;
   - Technical equipment, health material, and furniture; and
   - Epidemiological surveillance.
 v.  Ziga Downstream Mitigation Plan (PAAZ):
   - Establishment of 25 fish ponds;
   - Establishment of a nursery;
   - Covering of 4.8 ha of land with vegetation;
   - Establishment of 250 manure pits; and
   - Establishment of 29 ha of market gardens.
vi.  Establishment and Rehabilitation of Hydro-agricultural Facilities:
   - Building of two reservoirs and downstream development of 29.5 ha (gaskaye and absouya);
   - Rehabilitation and extension of the Nagréongo hydro-agricultural facility; and
   - Development of 37 ha of improved lowlands (Nahoutenga).




                                                  30

2-3 Project Coordination and Management

The Ziga Project Unit is the entity coordinating the entire project. It is headed by a Director
appointed by the Council of Ministers.

The Director is assisted by three Department heads (procurement and management; technical; and
administrative and financial departments) as well as a technical assistant. The Director is
assigned the following responsibilities:
-   Day-to-day coordination of project activities and implementation components;
-   Coordination of relations with donors and monitoring of financing agreements;
-   Technical and financial monitoring of the project;
-   Regular monitoring of the commitments made by the Government in the context of project
    agreements;
-   Preparation of the annual project budget and monitoring of its execution;
-   Monitoring trends in performance indicators;
-   Preparation of the quarterly progress report containing, in particular, information on the
    progress of the project, recommendations on actions to be taken, the financial situation, and
    trends in monitoring indicators;
-   Monitoring of activities related to all on-site components;
-   Preparation of meetings with donors of the various evaluation and supervision missions; and
-   Coordination of communications and project information activities.

2.3.1 Relations between the Project Director and Political Decision makers (all relevant entities)

These relations proved to be very good over the course of project implementation. In view of the
close ties between the project and the implementation of sector reform, the Project Director
played an increasingly important role that went beyond his terms of reference. The Director also
enjoyed excellent relations with the Director General of ONEA, who provided support to the
Director with project activities.

2.3.2 Relations between the Project Director and the Executing Agencies for the Various
Components

These relations are considered excellent. Enterprises and consulting and/or oversight firms
clearly understood and accepted the role of the Office, which was to ensure sound project
execution.

2.3.3 Lessons Learned

The Office, composed of a Director, a Head of the Administrative and Financial Department, a
Head of the Procurement and Management Department, and a Head of the Technical Department,
proved to be very effective in terms of the overall coordination of the project, coordination with
donors, the provision of technical reports, the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
system for performance indicators, and financial management. Audits were always conducted in
a timely manner. Mention should be made of the fact that none of the seven audit reports was
subject to reservations by the auditors and that the special account was very well maintained.

2.4 Project Impact on Implementation of the National Poverty Reduction Policy

The program facilitated an increase in access to drinking water by the poor in urban areas.
Through the distribution networks and the provision of 56,000 new subsidized connections and


                                                  31

400 standpipes, it is estimated that close to 700,000 additional individuals were directly
connected by the Ouagadougou water supply system.

A new tariff structure was designed and implemented in 2003. It is composed of three
consumption tranches of domestic subscribers. The principle of a consumption subsidy for the
poorest was maintained through a 20 m3   subsidizedtranche [tranche sociale].

In order to reduce the impact of rates on the poor, the Ministry of Finance also decided to exempt
tranches of 0 to 20 m3 from the value added tax, which stands at 18 percent.

In order to preserve the financial balance of the sector and cover the overall deficit in revenue
created by the subsidized tranche, a single-tranche approach is applied to major domestic
consumers and non-domestic subscribers (industries, administrations, etc.) with respect to water
payment, which serves as a "deterrent" tranche.



III. ASSESSMENT OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE WORLD BANK AND
GOVERNMENT

3.1 Assessment of the Activities of the World Bank During Project Execution

3.1.1 Main Decisions that Favored Project Execution

-   The regular holding of supervision missions fostered ongoing consultation and ensured that
    the stakeholders remained cognizant of their obligations;
-   The appointment of a Team Leader based at the World Bank's resident mission in Dakar
    made it possible to obtain timely no objections, monitor files, and engage efficiently in
    ongoing dialogue with the Government on major issues; and
-   The decision to reduce the financial contribution of beneficiaries in the cost of water
    subsidized water connections made it possible to expedite implementation of this component.

3.1.2 Main Decisions (or Absence of Decisions) that Impeded Project Implementation:
-   None

3.1.3 Project Monitoring by the World Bank

(a) Changes in Officials

The World Bank team has remained relatively stable. The change in the initial Task Team Leader
(from Eustache OUAYORO to Matar FALL) did not have a negative impact on project activities.
On the contrary, this change made it possible to bring the Bank's decision-making closer to the
client and to strengthen the dialogue and understanding among the various actors.

(b) Monitoring and Consultation Missions

These missions were held on a regular basis and were very useful. They led to enhanced
coordination with other donors and the Government. They were carried out in a consensual and
participatory manner, as evidenced by the fact that the Ministry of Finance co-signed all the aide-
mémoires of the Bank as well as the absence of any obvious divergence of views between the
Bank and the Government on the progress of the project.




                                                   32

3.1.4 Main Lessons Learned

The accessibility of the Task Team Leader played a decisive role in the project's success and in
the full implementation of IDA financing.

3.2 Assessment of the Government's Activities During the Course of Project Execution

3.2.1 Main Decisions that Favored Project Execution

-   The Government observed the action plan for the timely payment of its bills;
-   The Government honored its financial obligations on a regular basis;
-   The Government adjusted tariffs to ensure the financial equilibrium of ONEA; and
-   The Government took steps to resettle and/or compensate the populations affected by the
    construction of the dam.

3.2.2 Main Decisions (or Absence of Decisions) that Impeded Project Execution
-   None

3.2.3 Cash Flow and National Counterpart Problems

No problem was noted in this regard. Counterpart expenses, in particular for works and
equipment financed by IDA, were met regularly.

3.2.4 Project Monitoring by the Oversight Ministry

This monitoring is rated as satisfactory given the performance of the Project Unit and the cordial
relations developed with the Ministry of Agriculture and Water and the Ministry of Fisheries
Resources.

3.2.5 Change(s) in Government, if Any, and Impact on the Project

The various changes in ministers or ministerial oversight did not have a negative impact on the
project. Subsequent governments honored the commitments made.

3.2.6 Main Lessons Learned

A strong sense of ownership by the Government of the project, in particular by the Ministry of
Finance, ensured the consistent honoring of commitments made, particularly with respect to the
Government's bills. The Government indicated its interest in this project and did everything
possible to ensure its complete success.

3.3 Evaluation of the Effectiveness and Quality of Relations between the World Bank and
the Government during Project Execution

These relations were characterized by mutual trust and the desire for the success of the project,
which has been heralded as a model in the subregion. Regular consultations and ongoing contact
on all issues made it possible to overcome any difficulties that may have impeded the success of
the project.

3.4 Evaluation of the Performance of the Various Institutions, Consulting Firms, and
Consultants who Participated in Project Activities



                                                33

In general, consulting firms did satisfactory work, owing to stringent selection methods. Mention
should be made of the important involvement of national consulting firms in the supervision of
work in the "Government Environmental Impact Mitigation Plan" component.
For the first time, local enterprises received a significant share of the contract in the
"infrastructure" component.

IV. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL APPRAISAL OF THE PROJECT

4.1 Total Project Cost

4.1.1 Initial projections and actual cost of the various project components and categories of
expenditure

The total project cost, according to Project Appraisal Report estimates, stood at US$205.88
million or CFAF 133.822 billion (2000 rate of exchange: US$1 = CFAF 650). The World Bank's
contribution was estimated at US$70 million.

4.1.2 Value and Level of Recovery of Counterpart Funds

ONEA paid approximately CFAF 700 million in counterpart funds.



4.2 Recurrent Costs Generated by the Project and Impacting the State Budget

The project did not generate any recurrent costs that impact public finance. In the case of
drinking water, ONEA maintains its financial equilibrium and covers its recurrent costs through
the revenue generated by the sector. The costs generated by the coordination unit are linked to
the project and will be phased out when the project is closed.

4.3 Foreseeable Consequences of the Conclusion of the Project on the Institutional
Structures Established in the Context of the Project

As expected, ONEA is maintaining its financial equilibrium in 2007 as result of the financial
equilibrium model established, which has proven to be a powerful tool for the financial
management of the sector and decision making related to investment financing.

ONEA is currently honoring all its financial obligations, including its debt servicing with respect
to donors.

The closing of the project will not have a negative impact on ONEA, given that the project was
designed in such a way as to ensure its financial viability during its execution.

4.4 Main Lessons Learned

1) The political commitment of the Government was key to the success of the reform as well as
the establishment of mechanisms that favor the poorest in the water sector. The Government of
Burkina Faso played a central role in the success of this project by: (i) ensuring effective
coordination among the donors of the sector to finance the project; (ii) readjusting, as necessary,
water tariffs, and (iii) paying its bills.




                                                   34

2) The financing of the project by several donors and the mechanism for the transfer of part of
subsidies and loans to ONEA were decisive factors in the success of the project;

3) The decision to sponsor the subsidized connection program and an effective communications
strategy facilitated buy-in by the people and various stakeholders;

4) The service contract between the VEOLIA-MAZARS ET GUERARD Group and ONEA resulted
in adherence to the main indicators;

5) The establishment of a unit within ONEA to ensure effective coordination, with assistance
from lenders, is commendable; and

6) The appointment of a Team Leader based at the World Bank's resident mission in Dakar
facilitated project execution.



V. OUTLOOK FOR THE FUTURE WITH RESPECT TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF
PROGRESS ACHIEVED

As a result of the highly satisfactory outcome of the project, donors are willing to finance a
follow-up operation (PN-AEPA) aiming at strengthen the progress achieved and to ensure that
access to water will continue to improve in Ouagadougou and the financial equilibrium of the
sector will be maintained.

The investments made in the context of this project represent an important step toward
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. In the context of the National Water Supply
and Sanitation Program (PN-AEPA), the Government has adopted a new strategy based on a
sectoral approach that includes both rural and urban dimensions. This approach should lead to
more effective coordination of activities among donors in the entire water and sanitation sector
(urban and rural).




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable



Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

See in project files comments received from:
1. Momi Monia (AfDB); May 07, 2008 and May 09, 2008
2. Jochen Klaar (KFW); May 09, 2008
3. Jean-Francois Maillot (DANIDA), May 19, 2008




                                                35

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

ONEA
4. Rapport général de la présentation de la situation économique et financière de l'ONEA à
    l'Assemblée Générale des sociétés d'état, Exercice 2006 ; ONEA ; Avril 2007.
5. Etats financiers au 31 décembre 2006 ; ONEA ; Avril 2007.
6. Rapport du Commissaire aux comptes exercice clos le 31 décembre 2006 ; Sofidec Audit
    Conseil Nexia International ; Avril 2007.
7. Audit des comptes au 31/12/2006 ; Deloitte Worldaudit Burkina Faso S.A.
8. Audit du modèle financier de l'ONEA ; Rapport de l'Auditeur Technique ; Rapport Final ;
    Juillet 2007.

MOZ
9. Audit des comptes au 31/12/2006 ; Deloitte Worldaudit Burkina Faso S.A.

Contrat Plan
10. Contrat Plan entre l'Etat Burkinabe et l'Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
    (ONEA) ; Janvier 2007.
11. Audit du Rapport d'exécution du Contrat Plan - exercice 2006 ; Rapport de l'Auditeur
    Technique ; Rapport Final ; Août 2007.

Service Contract
12. Contrat de services pour la gestion commerciale et le renforcement des opérations financières
    et comptables entre ONEA et le Groupement Général des Eaux / Mazars et Guérard ; Mars
    2001.
13. Audit du contrat de service; Rapport de l'Auditeur Technique ; Rapport Final ; Janvier 2007.
14. Audit du contrat de service ; Rapport de l'Auditeur Technique ; Rapport Final ; Juillet 2007
15. Bilan Général 2001 ­ 2007 ; Groupement Veolia-Mazars ; Octobre 2007.
16. The Burkina Faso Service Contract ; Case Study ; Draft Report ; Banque Mondiale ; 2007
17. Rapport d'achèvement ­ Contrat de Services pour la gestion Commerciale et le Renforcement
    des Operations financières et Comptables ­ Bilan Général 2001 ­ 2007 ; Groupement Veolia-
    Mazars ; 31 décembre 2007.

Ouagadougou Water Supply Project (Ziga Project)
18. Project Appraisal Document for the Ouagadougou Water Supply Project ; World Bank ;
    Report No : 21454-BUR ; February 2001.
19. Development Credit Agreement for the Ouagadougou Water Supply Project; May 2007.
20. Aide mémoire mid-term review mission IDA 8 ­ 18 Mai 2005.
21. Aide mémoire supervision mission IDA 5 ­ 10 December 2005.
22. Aide mémoire supervision mission IDA 24 May ­ 3 June 2006.
23. Aide mémoire supervision mission IDA 6 ­ 17 March 2007.
24. Aide mémoire supervision mission .IDA 23 October ­ 5 November 2007.
25. Brochure "Le projet d'Approvisionnement en Eau potable de la ville de Ouagadougou à partir
    du barrage de Ziga"; ONEA; 2007.
26. Rapport du Comité de Pilotage à la 13e réunion du Comité de Supervision du Projet Ziga ;
    ONEA ; 28/09/07.
27. Rapport d'exécution au 30 septembre 2007 ; MOZ ; Octobre 2007.
28. Contrat de consultance entre ONEA et Sahelconsult au sujet de la réalisation d'enquêtes de
    satisfaction ; Mai 2001.
29. Enquêtes de satisfaction de la Clientèle ONEA ; Cinquième enquête ; Version définitive ;
    Sahelconsult ; Novembre 2006.



                                                36

30. Contrat de consultance entre ONEA et le Groupement ICEA ­ SOGREAH au sujet de la
    réalisation de l'étude tarifaire 2007-2011 de l'Office National de l'Eau et de
    l'Assainissement ; Mai 2007.
31. Etude tarifaire de l'ONEA 2007 ­ 2011 ; Rapport provisoire ; Groupement ICEA-
    SOGREAH ; Septembre 2007.
32. Etude tarifaire 2007 ­ 2011 de l'Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement ; Phase I ;
    Rapport d'évaluation ex-post du projet Ziga ; Groupement ICEA-SOGREAH ; Septembre
    2007.

Donors Comments
33. Momi Monia (AfDB); May 07, 2008 and May 09, 2008.
34. Jochen Klaar (KFW); May 09, 2008.
35. Jean-Francois Maillot (DANIDA), May 19, 2008.




                                                37

MAP




       38

