CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 505 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Settlement Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 505 NEP
Development Credit
Agreement
(Settlement Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 14, 1974, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has applied to the World Food Programme to provide
food to about 2800 families within the Project Area (as defined in Section 1.02(i)
of this Agreement) over a four-year period beginning July 1976;
(C)   The Project will be carried out in part by the Timber Corporation
of Nepal (hereinafter called TCN) and in part by the Nepal Resettlement Company
(hereinafter called NRC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to TCN and NRC part of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
--            WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Credit available to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "TCN" means the Timber Corporation of Nepal Limited, a public
limited company established under the Company Act, 1964, of the Borrower, as
amended;
(b)   "NRC" means the Nepal Resettlement Company (Pvt.) Limited, a
private limited company established under the Company Act, 1964, of the
Borrower, as amended;
(c)   "ADBN" means the Agricultural Development Bank, established under
the Agricultural Development Bank Act, 1967, of the Borrower, as amended, and
any successor or successors thereto;
(d)   "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, TCN and NRC pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(ii) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Financing Agreement;
(e)   "ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADBN pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(i) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(f)   "Bardia A" and "Bardia B" mean those areas of the Bardia District
of the Borrower to be described in the Nepal Gazette;
(g)   "Kanchanpur A" and "Kanchanpur B" mean those areas of the
Kanchanpur District of the Boirower to be described in the Nepal Gazette;
(h)   "Jhapa" means that area of the Jhapa District of the Borrower to
be described in the Nepal Gazette;
(i)   "Project Area" means the areas of the Borrower in which TCN and
NRC shall carry out their respective activities included in the Project and shall
include Bardia A, Bardia B, Kanchanpur A, Kanchanpur B and Jhapa;
(j)   "AMC" means the Agricultural Marketing Corporation of the Borrower,
a public limited company established under the Corporation Act, 1964, of the
Borrower, as amended;
(k)   "WFP" means the World Food Programme;


﻿5
(1)   "WFP Program" means the agreement to be entered into between WFP
and the Borrower under which food is to be provided to farmers and their families
who are settled in the Project Area by NSC;
(m)   "SCC" means the settlement coordinating committee established
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time; and
(n)   "NRs" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause AMC to procure fertilizers, pesticides and
seed pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 15, 1982 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1984 and ending April 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part E of the Project and
shall cause TCN to carry out Parts A and B of the Project and NRC to carry
out Parts C and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, engineering, financial, forestry and settlement
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause:
(i)         TCN and NRC to carry out their respective obligations as set
forth or referred to in the Project Financing Agreement, and
(ii)        ADBN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable TCN, NRC and ADBN to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall:
(i)         relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to ADBN under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ADBN under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association; and
(ii)       relend part of the proceeds of the Credit to TCN and make
available part of the proceeds of the Credit to NRC under a
project financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower, TCN and NRC, such agreement to be satisfactory to
the Association and to include inter alia the provisions set forth
or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Financing
Agreement and the ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Project Financing Agreement
or the ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in order to
coordinate the activities of NRC and TCN under the Project, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain a settlement coordinating committee (SCC) with its
headquarters at Kathmandu. The Borrower shall establish terms of reference for
SCC in consultation with the Association. SCC shall consist of one representative
each from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
and the Ministry of Forest; the General Manager of TCN; and the General Manager
of NRC.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association to assist in carrying out Part E of the
Project.
(b)   Without limiting or otherwise restricting its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall employ a soil surveyor by December 3 1,
1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, to assist in carrying out Part E(i) of the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall submit, or cause to be submitted, to the Association


﻿8
the detailed boundary, base line, forest inventory and soil surveys as well as the
structural layout plan for:
(i)         Bardia A by December 31, 1974; and
(ii)        all other sites included in Part A of the Project pursuant to
a timetable to be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall provide, or cause ADBN to provide, funds
for food loans to each farmer settled in the Project Area who does not receive
food under the WFP Program; provided, however, that each farmer shall only receive
food or food loans for a maximum period of eighteen months from the date of
such settlement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall provide to NRC by secondment such staff
on such terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and NRC.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to
permit TCN without restriction to sell or otherwise dispose of, both locally and
for export, logs obtained from the felling of forest referred to in Part A of the
Project and lumber produced from the sawmills referred to in Part B of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association, agricultural inputs, credit and extension services
shall be provided to farmers settled under Part C of the Project.
(b)   Without limiting or otherwise restricting its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause ADBN to provide credit to farmers
settled under Part C of the Project in accordance with the policies and procedures
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause ADBN to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the part of the Project carried out by ADBN
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of that part of the proceeds of the Credit made available to ADBN, and to disclose
the use thereof in such part of the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the part of the Project to be carried out by it, the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall


﻿9
reasonably request concerning the part of the Project carried out by ADBN, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to ADBN and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to
ensure that areas made ready for settlement under Part A of the Project shall
be effectively protected to prevent unauthorized settlement thereon prior to the
implementation of NRC's settlement program for such areas.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause the schools and health clinics which
are constructed under Part D of the Project to be staffed by an adequate number
of qualified and experienced persons.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ADBN to maintain records
adequate to   reflect in  accordance with    consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition with respect to its
activities under Part C of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ADBN to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, such auditors to be appointed initially within 90 days of the date
of this Agreement; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of ADBN and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause ADBN to: (i) promptly submit quarterly
to the Association summary Project accounts and progress reports in a form
satisfactory to the Association, and (ii) submit annually to the Association
unaudited Project accounts no later than four months after the end of each fiscal
year.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by TCN and NRC of their respective obligations under
the Project Financing Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of TCN, the administration, operations and resources and expenditures
of NRC and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its administrative subdivisions
and of any agency of the Borrower or of any such administrative subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of TCN; the
operations, administration and, resources and expenditures of NRC; and, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by TCN and NRC of their respective obligations
under the Project Financing Agreement, or the performance by ADBN of its
obligations under the ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuaince
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Memorandum     or Articles of Association of TCN    or NRC,
respectively, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect either the ability of TCN or
NRC to carry out their respective covenants, agreements and obligations as set
forth in the Project Financing Agreement or the efficient operation of TCN or
NRC.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ADBN or for the
suspension of its operations.


﻿12
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower, TCN and NRC, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and ADBN, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   SCC shall have been established pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.02 of this Agreement; and
(d)   the Borrower shall have granted to NRC appropriate and effective rights
to hold and operate land for settlement in Kanchanpur A, Bardia A and Jhapa,
as required under the provisions set forth in paragraph C(10) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, TCN and NRC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, TCN
and NRC in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
o. ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ADBN,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ADBN in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the rights to hold and operate land referred to in Section 8.01(d)
of this Agreement are valid and effective.


﻿13
Section 8.03. The date December 20, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 7.02
and 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date sixteen years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Secretary to the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿14
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s / Yadu Nath Khanal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ William Diamond
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
1.   Civil works                   1,100,000          75% of total
included in                                      expenditures
Parts B and D
of the Project
2.   Equipment and                 2,0000
vehicles
(a)  Directly                                    100% of foreign
imported                                   expenditures
goods                                      (c.i.f.)
(b)  Imported                                    75% of local
goods pur-                                 expenditures
chased
locally
3.   Incremental amount             400,000           75% of amounts
of ADBN short-term                               disbursed
sub-loans for
seasonal inputs
such as fertilizers,
pesticides and seed
4.   ADBN medium-term               600,000           75% of amounts
sub-loans for such                               disbursed
items as bullocks
and tools
5.   NRC costs in                   300,000           75% of total
the Project                                      expenditures
Area (other
than civil
works)
6.   Consultants'                   600,000           100% of foreign
services                                         expenditures
7.   Unallocated                   1,000,000
TOTAL        6,000,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower;
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures;
(d)   the term "sub-loans" means loans made or proposed to be made by
ADBN to farmers under Part C of the Project to assist such farmers in acquiring
necessary agricultural inputs; and
(e)   "incremental amount of ADBN     short-term  sub-loans" means the
portion of such sub-loans included in Part C of the Project and to be financed
hereunder as the Association shall reasonably determine from time to time to be
required by ADBN to finance the purchase of such inputs in any one year, over
and above any amounts previously disbursed from the Credit Account for such
purpose.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 2 on account of expenditures
incurred after April 30, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $50,000;
(b)   Category 2 until two winch lorry operators and two winch lorry
mechanics shall have been employed by TCN pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph B(2) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.


﻿17
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
-       item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category 1, 3,
4 or 5 shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to remove timber from forest
land in the Terai which is suitable for agriculture and to settle farmers thereon.
It consists of the following Parts:
Part A:     The felling by TCN of (i) about 1,000 hectares of forest in the existing
NRC settlement area in Kanchanpur District, and to the extent agreed
between TCN and the Association, in Jhapa District, and (ii) about
17,600 hectares of forest in the settlement areas to be established in
Kanchanpur, Bardia and Jhapa Districts and the provision of related
equipment and vehicles.
Part B:     The construction by TCN of about 26 sawmills, each with a capacity
of about 100,000 cubic feet of sawn lumber per year, and related
civil works, in Kanchanpur and Bardia Districts, and to the extent
agreed between TCN      and the Association, in Jhapa District; the
purchase and installation of related machinery and equipment; and the
provision of related vehicles.
Part C:     The settlement by NRC of about 7,900 families on land from which
forest is felled under Part A(ii) of the Project, the provision to NRC
of equipment and vehicles, and the provision of credit facilities by
ADBN to farmers to assist in their acquisition of necessary agricultural
inputs, including, inter alia, fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, bullocks and
tools.
Part D:     The construction of necessary basic infrastructure in areas to be settled
under the Project and the installation of related facilities thereon,
including, inter alia, NRC offices and staff housing, food and produce
stores, workshops, roads, wells, schools and health clinics.
Part E:     The provision of technical assistance and related equipment to assist
the Borrower in:
(i)         carrying out a soil survey in the Western Terai to
determine the sites and areas for future settlement
programs of the Borrower; and


﻿19
(ii)        developing the irrigation potential in areas settled under
Part C of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 15, 1981.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Responsibility for Procurement
1.    Fertilizers, pesticides and seed shall be procured by AMC.
2.    Bullocks and tools shall be purchased by farmers through cooperatives.
3.    Equipment and vehicles shall be procured by TCN and NRC for their
respective parts of the Project.
4.    Civil works contracts shall be awarded by TCN and NRC for their respective
parts of the Project.
5.    Contracts for civil works, equipment and vehicles shall be respectively bulked
to the extent possible.
B.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.   With respect to any contract for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, TCN shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, TCN shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform TCN and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿21
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any contract for equipment estimated to cost less than
$100,000 and more than $50,000, TCN shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform TCN and the Borrower, and
state the reasons for such determination.
C.    Contracts Governed by Procedures Other than the Guidelines
1.    Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less
may be procured without resort to international competition and pursuant to TCN's
and NRC's usual procurement practices.
2.    Road and building construction works and well installation shall be carried
out either (i) under contracts awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
pursuant to TCN's or NRC's usual procurement practices or (ii) by force account.
3.    Bullocks and tools shall be purchased by farmers through cooperatives.
4.    Fertilizers, pesticides and seed shall be procured by AMC pursuant to its
usual procurement procedures.
5.    With respect to all contracts included in this paragraph, TCN or NRC,
respectively, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if


﻿22
it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform TCN
or NRC, respectively, and the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 4
Provisions to be included in
the Project Financing Agreement
A.    General Undertakings by TCN and NRC
1.   TCN shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project and NRC shall carry out
Parts C and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and settlement practices.
2.    Each of TCN and NRC shall procure the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
3.    Each of TCN and NRC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the part
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to each of TCN or NRC,
respectively, by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by TCN or NRC to replace or repair such goods.
4.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each of TCN and NRC shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the part of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to each of TCN and NRC, respectively, by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
5.    Each of TCN and NRC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
6.    Each of TCN and NRC: (i) shall maintain separate records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to TCN and NRC, respectively, by the Borrower, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 5.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such


﻿24
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so made available to TCN and NRC, respectively, and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
7.    Each of TCN and NRC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Project
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TCN
or NRC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
8.    Each of TCN    and NRC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
9.    Each of TCN and NRC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association,
such auditors to be initially appointed by each of TCN and NRC within
90 days of the date of this Agreement; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of TCN and NRC,
respectively, and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
10.   Each of TCN and NRC shall: (i) promptly submit quarterly to the Association
summary Project accounts and progress reports in a form satisfactory to the
Association, and (ii) submit annually to the Association unaudited Project
accounts no later than four months after the end of each fiscal year.
11.   Each of TCN and NRC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of TCN and NRC,
respectively, and any relevant records and documents.
B.    Specific Undertakings by TCN
1.    TCN shall:


﻿25
(a)   operate TCN's business and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound business, financial and forestry practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management and operate, maintain, renew
and repair its plants, equipment and property in accordance with sound
engineering and maintenance practices;
(b)   take all action reasonably required to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct
of TCN's business;
(c)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice; and
(d)   not sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties
or assets which shall be required for the efficient implementation of
the Project, without the consent of the Association.
2.    In order to assist TCN in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, TCN
shall employ an appropriate number of competent and experienced persons
acceptable to the Association to serve as (i) winch lorry operators and
mechanics and (ii) sawmill operators and mechanics. For a period of two
years from the date of the Development Credit Agreement, the terms and
conditions of the contracts of employment for such persons shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    TCN shall ensure that the position of General Manager is filled at all times
by a suitably qualified and experienced person.
4.    By December 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between TCN
and the Association, TCN shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
staffing plan for the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project and after
agreement between TCN and the Association thereon, TCN shall implement
said staffing plan as agreed.
5.    By August 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be agreed between TCN
and the Association, TCN shall employ a sales advisor acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to
assist TCN in the export marketing of its products.
6.    TCN shall begin its felling operations for any area included in Part A(ii)
of the Project only after TCN shall have received notice from the Association


﻿26
that NRC has submitted, pursuant to paragraph C(10) of this Schedule,
evidence satisfactory to the Association of NRC's right to hold and operate
land in each such area.
7.    TCN shall promptly submit to the Association annual evaluation reports in
a form acceptable to the Association.
C.    Specific Undertakings by NRC
1.    NRC shall:
(a)   operate NRC's business and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound agricultural, business, financial and settlement practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management and operate,
maintain, renew and repair its plants, equipment and property in
accordance with sound engineering and maintenance practices;
(b)   take all action reasonably required to maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct
of NRC's business;
(c)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practices; and
(d)   not sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties
or assets which shall be required for the efficient implementation of
the Project, without the consent of the Association.
2.    By December 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between NRC
and the Association, NRC shall employ a person acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to fill the position
of Agricultural Advisor.
3.    NRC shall ensure that the position of General Manager is filled at all times
by a suitably qualified and experienced person.
4.    By December 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between NRC
and the Association, NRC shall appoint qualified and experienced persons
to fill the positions of Deputy General Manager, Chief Agricultural Officer
and Civil Engineer, respectively.


﻿27
5.    NRC shall provide suitable incentives to its staff to ensure adequate staffing
in the Project Area.
6.    Except as NRC and the Association shall otherwise agree, NRC shall select
settlers under Part C of the Project pursuant to the criteria set forth or
referred to in Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement.
7.    NRC shall promptly submit to the Association annual evaluation reports in
a form acceptable to the Association.
8.    NRC undertakes to guarantee the repayment of all food loans made by ADBN
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
9.    NRC shall ensure that any additional settlement activities do not interfere
with the efficient carrying out of Parts C and D of the Project. To this
end, NRC shall consult with the Association before undertaking any
substantial additional settlement activities.
10.  NRC shall submit to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association
of NRC's right to hold and operate land for areas to be settled under Part
C of the Project.
11.  By December 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed between NRC
and the Association, NRC shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
staffing plan for the carrying out of Parts C and D of the Project and after
agreement between NRC and the Association thereon, NRC shall implement
the agreed staffing plan,
12.  In each of Bardia A, Bardia B, Kanchanpur A, Kanchanpur B and Jhapa,
NRC shall appoint a person to serve as manager to be assisted by an
agricultural officer experienced in extension activities.
13.   NRC shall prepare and submit to the Association, by December 15, 1974,
or such other date as shall be agreed between NRC and the Association,
its annual accounts as prepared for audit for the fiscal year ending July 1 5,
1974.


﻿28
SCHEDULE 5
ADBN Lending Procedures and Policies
A.    Lending Procedures
NRC shall organize settlers under Part C of the Project into
cooperatives, with village branches, to assist in providing agricultural inputs
and marketing of agricultural produce.
Although each cooperative shall serve as a channel for credit from
ADBN to the farmer, ADBN shall provide credit only after receiving from
NRC a farm plan acceptable to ADBN.
ADBN shall rediscount all loans made to cooperatives under the Project
in accordance with the provisions of the ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
B.    Lending Policies
1.   ADBN Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(a)   Repayment period: Same repayment periods as under ADBN
loans to cooperatives.
(b)   Interest rate: 3% per annum
(c)   Security: Same security as ADBN receives from cooperatives.
2.   ADBN Loans to Cooperatives
(a)   Short term: 7% per annum rate of interest, up to 18 months'
repayment period without a grace period.
(b)   Medium term: 5% per annum rate of interest, a repayment period
of up to 7 years including a grace period of up to 2 years.
3.    Cooperative Loans to Farmers
(a)   Short term: 10% per annum rate of interest, up to 18 months'
repayment period without a grace period.
(b)   Medium term: 7-1/2% per annum rate of interest, a repayment
period of up to 7 years including a grace period of up to 2
years.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 6
Criteria for Selecting Settlers
1.    Settlers shall be selected pursuant to a system based upon satisfying minimum
eligibility criteria and grading of applicants according to points and interviews.
Applications shall be made to NRC through local district officials. At this
stage, the applicant's general suitability shall be determined by applying
minimum eligibility criteria to ensure that the candidate:
(a)   is a citizen of Nepal;
(b)   is one of a minimum of two adult able-bodied persons in his family;
(c)   has no serious criminal records; and
(d)   is prepared to abide by the rules and regulations established by NRC.
2.    Points would be awarded to each eligible applicant according to a scale based
upon age, number of children, extent of land ownership and agricultural
aptitude.
3.    The final selection shall be made by NRC based upon the point system
referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule and upon an interview with the
applicant by NRC.
4.    Upon selection, the settler would sign a ten-year bond agreeing to abide
by the regulations set by NRC. He would then be given evidence by NRC
of his right to use the plot.
5.    Settlers would purchase their land for NRs300 per bigha. This amount would
be paid, interest free, at the rate of NRs30 per bigha per annum between
the fourth and thirteenth year of the settler's term of occupancy. Upon
completion of these payments, the settler would receive permanent title to
his plot.


