The W6rld Bak
FOR OM CIL USE ONLY
lte. P.  -3841-
REPORT AND RE3COIEw4I(TIO5
OF 7E
PRESIr CF
IMRiAT1GNAL BANK F(R RECONSTffCUECI AND 1 VELOPM[II
TO 7E
EKEUrTIVE DIRTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOA
IN ANR AMN BQUIVALENT TD US$164.5    ION
TO
EyMPRESA PUBLICAS DE )DELLI
WMi IRE GUMANYEE OF
F~ lEE 
IRE REPBLIC OF CMI
RID GRIU MUlI1UR}OSE PRDJ:T
June 1, 19B4
i  Sdument ha a rUe   flmm and may be usd by ipeip-aw  y* In Se pe(ie o
Itir efficd d.ks In cint  ma mm lburwhe be dlsdm     e_  owm _k      isW



CUIMcr EQUIVA ETS
rency Unit                              Colombian Peso (Col$)
COI$                                 -   100 Centavos (eti)
C*1$79.50 (L983 average)                US$l
Col$l,000                            =    S$12.58 C1983 average)
Co}l$,000,000 OOoI$)                    US$12,578 (1983 average)
UEI(ES AID ME&SURES
1 ueter (a)                              3.281 feet (ft)
I square kilometer (km2)                 0-386 squae ulle (oi2)
1 cubic ueter (p3)                       35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
2642 galons (gal)
=   6.290 barrels (bbl)
I kilogrm  (kg)                     -   2.206 poudo  (1b)
I ton (t; metric; 1,000 g)               1,100 sbort ts (sh.t.)
kilowatt (kI)                      -   1,000 Watts 1103 I)  
I !egaatt (W)                            1,000 W  (lOs kg -  06 W)
1 Gigawatt (GW)                      -   1,000 NW (106 kg l-  W)
I kilowatt-hmur (kgh)                -  1,000 Wat-ours (103 wh)
-   830.3 kilocalories (kcal)
1 Gigawatt-hour (Gin)                -   1,000,000 kh (106 kWh)
aWSS&RY 0? A3UEVIAINS
BR           8anco de la Republica
COVES         National Secoomic and Social Policy Council
DNP        - National Plannfrg Department
ERA3          Empresa de Acueducto y Al  rillo de Bogota
EUPO       - Empresas de Obras Sanitaris
EP           Empresas PubUlcas de Nedellin
FEM          Financiera Electrica Nacional
FFDK          Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano
FOM^DE       Foudo Nacional de Desarrollo
1iXS         Water Supply Divislon of the Ministry of Health
ISA           Interconexion Electrica S.&.
JNT        - National Tariff Board
U5S        -'Water Supply and Sewerage Department of EPN
FISCaL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOB4
RIO GRAIE MUJLTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Empresas Publicas de Nedelln (EPM)
Guarantor:      Republic of Colombia
Amount          US$164.5 million equivalent, includirg front-end fee.
*      Terms:          Repayment in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at the Ba* 's standard variable rate.
Project
Descriptiom   This multipurpose water supply and hydroelectric project
vould support Colombia's efforts to provide the economic and
social Infrastructure needed to facilitate growth and enhance
well-being. The project includes construction of facilities
needed by 1990 to provide safe and reliable water supply to
about 61,000 households currently without water or poorly
served, about 10,000 commercial establishments, and 8,700
manufacturing and industrial concerns in the Department of
Antioqula. The power component of the project would help
ensure availability of electricity needed in the Department,
witch is a productive center of major importance to
Colombia's economy. Moreover, in line with Colombia's
efforts to diminish reliance on non-renewable hydrocarbons,
the project would enable reducing costly thermal generation
In the national interconnected svstem. Project works
comprise hydro-facilities on the R'o Grande including an
earth-fill dam, tunnels, a 300 RV underground power station,
a 22 MW surface power station serving as a pressure reducing
facility, a balancing taik and a steeL condult to feed raw
water to a potable water treatment plant to be constructed
under a second phase of this development. The project also
includes the extension of a computerized data processing
n-twork, and staff training.
Risks:          The main risks are those inherent in major eivil works in
difficult terrain, including tunneling at great depth. The
degree of riak is, however, acceptable because geological
conditions in the area have been thoroughly studied, other
large civil works have been successfully carried out in the
vicinity, EPM's staff and consultants have wide experience in
this type of work and, finally, adequate contingencies have
been provided for. There is also a risk that the local
currency share of the investment may not be available in a
timely manner. However, the agreed financial targets and
related program of tariff increases would minimize this
risk. Further, it is conservatively assumed that planned
cofinancing of US$65.5 mlllion would not materialize, with a
view to ensuring that the project would be fully financed
even under adverse conditions.
Thsdcmn _o thanWs teddistn-bution and waybe usedby nxipiensnly im theperformnuce|
of ti offical duties. Its contents may not otherwie be dcklsd wrihout World Bank authonrzation



-is -
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreig      Total
-U USS million
Dam and reservoir                          38.8      24.4      63.2
Power stations, transMission               42.4      77.9     120.3
water tank and supply conduit              27.4      35.9      53.3
Training, data network                      0.5       1.4       1.9
Engineering and administration             26.4       8.8      35.2
Base cost 1/                          135.5     148.4     273.9
Contingencies: Physical                   18.0       19.2      37.2
Price                      5.2      35.7       40.9
Front-end fee                                         0.4       0.4
Total project cost                        158.7     203.7     362.0
Interest during construction                6.5      49.2      55.7
Total investment cost                 165.2     252.9     418.1
Project Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign   Total
-Uzzz-uSS million
IB2D: Contracts                            -        164.1     164.1
: Front end fee                        -          0.4       0.4
Subtotal IBiD                              -        164.5     164.5
Cofinancing B-Loan                                   65.5      65.52/
Suppliers                                            22.9      22.9
FONADE, Government loans                   13.6       -        13.6
EPM                                       151.6       -       151.6
165.2    252.9      418.1
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY       85      86     87     88     89      90      91
(US$ millions) 
Annual        21.0     11.7  34.6  35.4  30.4  20.6    10.8
Cumulative    21.0     32.7   67.3  102.7  133.1  153.7   164.5
Rate of Return:  About 18% on the combined power and water investment program
of EPH, using actual and projected revenues as a proxy for
benefits.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5018b-CO dated June 1, 1984.
1/ At December 1982 prices, adjusted to April 30, 1984. Does not include
taxes and import duties, from which EPM is largely exempted in relation
to the project.
2/ Cofinaucing of approximately US$65.5 million will be sought in 1985.
However, given capital market uncertainties, the financial projections
assume that EPM would need to finance from operations most of the
US$65.5 million shown.



INTERTTIONAL BA!K FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DELPME5T
REPGRT AND RECOMMENDTIOtf OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED L(.N TO
E?PREESAS PUBLIC4S DE MDELLIN
VITEU THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF O)LOMBIA POR THE
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECf
1.        1 submt the following report and recmendation on a proposed loan
to Enpresas Publicas de Nedellin, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, for the equivalent of US$164.5 million to help finance the Rio
Grande Multipurpose Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 4 yeaMr oF grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate.
PART I - TE ECONO=5YII
An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-co) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
mission was folloved by a small updating mission which visited the country in
February 1984. A.so, a mission to review the external sector and
agriculture visited Colombia during April/Nay 1983, and its report (4981-C)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1984. This section
reflects both missions' major findings. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on laid no longer
increases much, if at all.  Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies ant public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
v        products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
I/ This section is an updated version of Part I of the report for the Power
Development Finance Project (No. P-3750-CM, March 8, 1984).



-2-
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.2% on average during the
1950-83 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained In the 3.OZ to 3.5: range during the l950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and  increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. Colombia's population i: presently growing at an ann-al rate of 2 .OZ.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering ch ldbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to cortinme until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
about 50Z and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand Lu
the early 1960s to 3.5 per thousand in the late 1970s.  Infant xDrtality fell
to 55 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 79% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
rem-ins largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small mDdern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties.  Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results on government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping



the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates amd other export incen-
tives were introduced and the aathorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measares were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties casned primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed ro correct the structural and policy veaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, togetther
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated- Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 12 of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and 3ocial infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the effects
of increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export incen-
tives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints were
relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest rates
on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance compa-
nies--and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit



- 4 -
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade.  The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 4% in
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems have continued through 1983. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5% in 1981 fell to 1.4Z in 1982 and to about 1% in 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit both in 1982 and 1983 as the production of cotton, oil
seeds and other agricultural commodities dropped as a result of low
international prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial
activity deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and
unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly in manufacturing.
After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in the resource
balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion, which continued at roughly this
level through 1983. These deficits resulted mainly from a drop in exports by
about 9% annually in re-l terms: major reasons were the slowdown in world
demand, a major devaluation and the introduuction of import restrictions in
Venezuela-a major trading partner-in 1981, and the reduction in Colombia's
coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement significantly below
the 1981 coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by
about USS,800 million in 1983 and Colombia's net international reserves were
equivalent to about 6.7 months of imports of goods and non-factor service at
year end. To a significant extent, the fall in foreign exchange reserves was
caused by the difficulties in tapping capital markets which resulted from the
external debt problems of other countries. Inflation slowed down in 1983 to
a 20% average for the year, down from 28% in 1981 and 25% in 1982.
11.       Since 1983 the Government has been introducing a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand and to initiate the adjustment process
required to expand and diversify non-coffee exports, stimulate domestic
production, and resume economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation is
being accelerated with a view to regaining the 1975 real exchange rate during
1984; the housing construction industry is being provided with incentives to
mobilize an increasing amount of resources; and open market operations are
being discontinued to increase liquidity in the economy. Temporary import
restrictions are being introduced to arrest the falling foreign exchange
reserves; these are to be lifted once the real exchange rate achieves its
equilibrium level and exports respond fully to this incentive. The
stabilization measures introduced in 1977 have been gradually dismantled,
followed by government legislation, measures and regulations designed to
reduce the fiscal deficit and ease distortions and restrictions in the
financial system. While these measures have been in the right direction,
there is need for significant additional efforts, as recognized by the
authorities. In particular, the country continues to be affected by the
tight international capital market in 1984, which together with a somewhat
slower export growth than expected by the Government, have produced furthec
declines in foreign exchange reserves. The continuing pressure on the
external sector has brought to the Government's attention the need for
further and timely actions to reverse the current trends. Such a policy
package would need to include export promotion, external resource mobill--
zation, promotion of foreign investment, fiscal and monetary measures.



-5-
Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development
objectives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This
strategy emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the
benefits of -ievelopment to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved
through increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the
process of economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the
*        resumption of gro-wth while maintaining price stability. The strategy
strengthens rhe previous emphasis on export promotion as a means of
supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and
on policy measures designed to increase economic efficiency and raise
institutional capacity. It proposes a contimation of the large effort in
public invesrment, giving high priority to energy, agriculture and industrial
projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralizarion, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market. The development
plan's strategy also places emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation aid
contributing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial
policy objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with
adequate credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to
Invest and expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign
markets, creating employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign
investment is to be encouraged. The financial sector is also to be
strengthened.  The Gove rnnt's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its efforts are focused upon
improving efficiency in the use of resources, broadening coverage of services
and strengthening the social service institutions.  Programs in the housing,
health, and education sectors are to be better focused and integrated, and
selected low income and disadvantaged grouwps, such as workers in the informal
sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for special
attention. Combined with a significant expansion in construction of
low-income housing and the extension of the Integrated Rural Development
(DRI) program, the new directions given to social programs are expected to
raise significantly the welfare of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       After many years of being a net petroleum exporter, Colombia
became a net oil importer in the mid 1970s and, in recent years, 10-15% of
merchandise imports have been accounted for by petroleum. In the absence of
rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major constraint on
growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem depends on the
country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy resources--
hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas-and also upon I'ncreasing petroleum
exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that balance consumption with energy resource availabili-
ties, a least cost program of investments, sufficient domestic and external
financing for these investments, strengthened sector institutions, improved
program execution capabilitv and rapid carrying out of investments. Although
planning and policy making have improved substantially in many energy sector
institutions in recent years, further improvements in overall sector planning
and coordination are needed. A recently completed National Energy study



- 6 -
carried out by the Government is providing the basis for seekirg such
improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions have gone a
considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating
consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers
(primarily foreign companies) for -incremental and 'new- crude provide
adequate production incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products
have been increased substantially in recent yeara, reflecting, on the whole,
international levels.
14.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying                 S
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth and exports, affecting particularly
the development of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have taken steps to improve the country's
infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector.  An important part of this effort is the ongoing
Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
16.       A large increase of public sector investment will be required in
the next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1984-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 5% p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the sma11- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 9Z of GDP during the 1984-86 period, and
is expected to total ColSl,312 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. In particular, the size
of the overall Central Government deficit will have to be reduced signifi-
cantly. The buoyancy of the tax system (excluding coffee tax revenues and
receipts from earnings on foreign exchange holdings), which has declined in
recent years, will have to be increased through new taxes and better tax



- 7 -
administration; the growth of expenditures will have to be checked; resources
will have to be used more efficiently; and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of
measures to tackle some of these issues was approved by Congress in 1983,
including measures related to broadening the base and increasing the average
rate of the sales tax, increasing other indirect taxes, reducIng the
earmarking of revenues, reducing tax evasion, and strengthening tax
administration which are expected to have an effect in 1984. Additional
actions on the expenditure side are expected to follow.  Since this effort is
likely to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
*        over-stressed.  The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high.  Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Coloubia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably good and
significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated. However, because
of the decline in coffee prices and the weakening in exports caused by the
recession in some of traditional Colombian markets, in addition to the need
to increase imports to develop the country's resource potential and restore
higher economic growth, the current account deficit of the balance of pay-
ments is projected to average US$1.7 billion per year during 1984-86, equiva-
lent to 4% of GDP. Almost half of the deficit is projected to be financed by
reducing foreign exchange reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the
end of this period, net official international reserves would have fallen to
a level of about three months of imports of goods and non-factor se-vices (a
level Which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 4% during this period. Beyond 1986, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a leveling-off of Imports resulting from increased domestic production of
petroleum. The current account deficit would gradually fall to about 1% of
GDP by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of about 4% per annum during
1984-86, gross fixed investment will have to be maintained at 20% of GDP, and
to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 192 of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total US$6.1
-        billion in current prices for the 1984-86 period, for an annual average
requirement of about US$2.0 billion. Net foreign investment is expected to
account for US$0.9 billion during 1984-86. This should provide about 15% of
the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 85Z (US$5.2 billion)
about US$2.5 billion, has been either committed or is expected to be secured
from multilateral and bilateral sources, while the difference, US$2.7
billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from financial markets and supp-
liers' credit sources. At the end of 1982, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$6.2
billion, equivalent to 16% of GDP. The BanklIDk share of this external debt
was 22%. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing from commer-
cial sources, this share is expected to remain at about 201 during 1983-86.



- 8 -
The public debt service ratio at the end of 1982 was 18% and is expected to
climb to 25% by 1986, peak at about 27Z in 1988 and then decline gradually to
24Z in 1990. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected to
remain below 25X during 1983-86. With continued sound economic and financial
management, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1984-90 period.
PART !I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The pruposed loan, the 103rd to be made to Colombia, would bring                   s
-he total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,983.3 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1984 US$
2,981.3 million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 66 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to to US$250 million per year by 1982, and US$294.5 million in
1983, reflecting the higher level of commitments in the late 1970s. While
disbursements in Colombia have been slower than those recorded in the Latin
American Region for similar projects, concentrated efforts to overcome
problems to initiate project execution have resulted in a 272 increase in
disbursements during FY83 compared to the previous year and in the current
year disbursements have continued at the higher level. The gradually
improving performance of social sector institutions in the execution of
Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressu'res and
the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms, which should improve
counterpart funding, and the increased Bank lending for infrastructure
projects, all point to a higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC
has made investments and underwriting commitments of US$119.9 million in 29
enterprises and as of March 31, 1984, it held US$48.0 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC invest-
ments as of March 31, 1984.
21.       During the past 17 years, Bank lending to Colombia has become quite
diversified. While before 1966, 22 loans out of a total of 25 loans made to
Colombia were for power and transport projects, since then, from a total of
79 loans only 24 have been made to these sectors. In addition, all four
loans for education, 13 of the 15 loans for industry, 15 of the 17 agricultu-
ral loans, one loan for nutrition, two loans for urban development, all nine
loans for water supply and sewerage and one each for coal exploration, were
made after 1966. The diversification was indeed a desirable aim as it helped
provide close contact with a broader range of Colombia's development
problems. The experience gained has served to identify areas in which the
Bank's role can ouly be a marginal one and, thus, to enable lending to be
focused upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a meaningful
impact.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY83 consisted of loans for rural edu-
cation and agricultural research totalling US$78.4 million equivalent. In
addition to the loan presented in this report, the current program includes



already approved loans for coal exploration, power seector financlng. and
earthquake reconstruction. To assist Colombia in the face of adverse economic
conditions, efforts have been stepped up to associate the Bank vith directly
productive projects. Thus, loans are being considered for smal-scale
Industry, agrieltural diversification and infdustrial credit, and are
expected to be presented to the Exective Directors in the coaming months.
Work is also uaJerway on projects for export development, petroleum,
electricity distribution, development finance, agricultural extension and
marketing, roads. water supply and sewerage, and Irrigation, for possible
consideration by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's deve-
lopment strategy- To help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy, a
sizeabie part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank in-
tends to assist in the development of coal nines Which hold potential to help
Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports.
Bank financing in the energy sector would also assist in strengtbening major
institutions and iu mobilizing external finance, as wost of the projects
would require substantial cofinancin-g Otber future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to support the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment, and to increase and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank lending for in-
frastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-regional flow of
goods and services. Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of
the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population.
Proposed lendiig for further rural electrification, rural development,
agricultural credit, public health, and irrigation projects are principally
designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are sbown in Ansex
}. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colonbia in the 1961-72 period, their share had decreased
since then to some 60Z for the 1975-82 period and is expected to decltne fur-
ther to about 30Z of external capital requirem2nts during the eighties. Like
the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to projects with a poverty orient-
ation and has financed projects in low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control. la the future, it is proposed to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID bas supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Governments of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.



- 10 -
PART :El - THE W&TER SUPPLY AND P-llER SECfO2S
A. Water SUnplV and Sewerage
Service Levels
25.        iationwide water and sewerage service levels place Colombia among
the better served countries in Latin America, although there Is st1il
substantial room for Improvements. In large and meiirum-size cities, safe
water is generally available on a contlnuous beais, although service tends to
be irregular in some neighborhoods. In mll commin¢ties and rural areas,
however, the quality of water Is often unsatisfactory. Moreover, in
practically all comimmities, waste water is discharged untreated, caMUsig
severe pollution in rivers and streams. The overall quality of service is
uneven, and many water supply and sewerage systems are in need of repairs or
have become oDsolete.
26.       in 1983, about two-thirds of Colombia's estimated population of
27.5 millfon Lived in urban comnmrnities2/ and one-third in snall comaunities
or rural areas. About 60% of the total population had access to public water
supply and about 40Z was connected to a sewerage system. Piped water Qs
available to 80% and sewerage services to 65Z of urban inhabitants. Of the
rural population, about 19? had water service and about 1Z sewerage
coonnections.
Sector Policies and Finances
27.       Government policy for expanding water and sewerage services and
improving their quality is aimed at urban comminity service level targets of
90% for water and 80% for sewerage, by 1990, compared with present coverage,
as cited above. For rural areas, coverage is to be inereased in the me
period from about 22% to 40? for water supply and from less than 20% to 35%
for sewerage. This would mean reaching an additional 5.5 million people in
the urban areas and an additional two mllion in the rural areas. Most of
the new beneficiaries would be low-income families, consuming relatively
little water and paying minimum rates.
28.       In line with these objectives, the Government anticipates capital
expenditure-! in the sector averaging about USS300 million per anuai Cat 1983
prices) over the next six years. In comparison, during the seventies, annmal
sector investment averaged about US$160 million equivalent at 1983 prices, of
which about half was financed by budget appropriations and domestlc credit,
30Z by external lenders (primarily the Bank and IDS) and 20% from internal
cash generation. A cornerstone of the current investment strategy is the
attainment of higher levels of self-financing by the local companies. The
Government has also undertaken to ensure a steady flov of complementary
budgetary funds for sector investment to overcome past constraints on the
timely carrying out of projects.
21 2,500 or more inhabitants.



- 11 -
Sector Institutions
29_       The ministry of Eealth oversees the sector and fornmlates sector
polcy in coordintion with the National Plannng Deparment (DlNP). Two
decentralized entities, the National Institte for Manicipal Development
(INMP&L) and the National Institute of Health (INUS) are responsible fo,
central pLannming and financing of sector investment in urban comwanities and
rural areas, respectively, and for performing as technical aid financial
intersediaries. In 28 principal cities, ihere about 48% of the country's
population in concntrated, atonomons municipal utility companies aze in
charge of water supply and sewerage. In the smaller cities and towns,
sanitation works companies are responsible for construction, maintenance and
operation of water supply and sewerage systems. In many small towns, local
administrations provide water and sewerage services directly. In rural
areas, water aid sanitation facilities are built by departmental offices of
I1,S in coordination with the beneficiary coumunities.
30.      Despite the aforementioned relatively superior service levels,
INSFOPL and M?&S have not so far succeaded in providing the leadership, and
the technical ard financial assistance, required to ensure adequate standards
of operation, maintenance and financial management withia the sector.
Frequent changes in management, shortage of competent and experienced staff,
and deficient administrative and operational procedures have hampered the
effectiveness of the two institutions. The large municipal water supply
utilities, particularly those serving Medellin and Bogota, have been the most
successful at keeping pace with their rapidly-growing population's need for
safe and reliable water supply and sewerage services. Many of the smaller
utilities, bowever, are handicapped by weak financial and operational
mangem ent, low water rates and anduly large and poorly trained work forces.
B. Power
nergy Resources, Policies ard Institutions
31.      Colombia is rich in energy resources, particalarly hydroelectricity
and coal. Its known reserves of oil and natural gas are modest by interna-
tional standards, yet significant at the national level- In terms of known
reserves, about 55Z of Colombia's primary energy potential lies in bydro-
electricity, 40% in coal and only 5% in oil and natural gas. In contrast,
consumption of commercial energy relies primarily upon oil products (50%) and
less on natural gas (20%), coal (20Z) and hydroelectricity (10%). Colombia's
hydroelectric potential, at about 100 G(, is amongst the largest in the
world. Although the country has made strides in developing this potential,
only some 4% has been developed to date. However, plants now under construc-
tion will virtually double capacity by 1988. Since the plentiful hydro-
reserves can be developed at relatively low cost, they represent an option of
high priority as indicated by the Investments in hydro plants foreseen by the
national least-cost Power Investment Program, 1987-96. Bowever, the optilu
mix of generation sources needs to be determined to take advantage of
projected increased supply of coal and existing availability of a natural gas
surplus. This matter is currently being studied.



32_       Colombia traditionally enjoyed a positive trade balaneo in energy
because of its relatively rich ener&y endowment and vxdest .oMsumption (at
about one ton of coal equivalent per annum, per capita ener  consmption is
below average for middle-income developing countries). In 1976, the country
became a net importer of energy, aid by 1981 oil imports reached almost
US$400 million, mainly because of a 7% annual fall In oil output betwen 1970
and 1979. The Government moved in the late 1970s to redress the negative
energy trade balance by changing relative prices to encourage consumers to
move aay from oil, and providing incentives to producers; and by public
sector ivestments, particularly In hydroelectricity and coal. As a result,
the previoas trend has been reversed since 1980, with production inereae  in
petroleum, aggregate energy consumption growth lower than GDP, and with
petroleum's share of total primary energy consumption falling, and hydro-
electricity, coal and natural gas, increasing.
33.      Over the past five years, Colombia has been successful in wobiltz-
ing external financing for energy development, through direct foreign invest-
ment (in oil and gas first and lately In coad) and external loans to the
energy agencies, including power companie£. owever, current conditions in
the international capital market are making private financing lore difficult
to obtain- Local finacing reqxuire.ants are covered by Internally generated
resources and Government contributions, with the incipient local capital
market providing only a marginal share of financing. To Increase Internal
resource mobilization in 1980 the Government created the National Coal Fund
that receives revenme from a tam on coal production ana finances coal explo-
ration (80%) and small and medium-scale coal mining operations (20%). In
1982, a power development bank - FEN, the borrower under the recently
approved Power Development Finance Project (2401-CO) - was established to
mobilize domestic as well as foreign resources for the power sector (para.
36).
34.       Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA) was created in 1968 as an
independent, national generation and interconnection company, of which the
shareholders now include all the largest municipal pover utilities aid the
Government-owned power companies.3! In addition to plant construction, ISA
has integrated the regional power systems. At the same time, the Government
has taken measures to improve the sector's prospects for efficient growth; it
established the National Tariff Board (JNT) in DNP to approve requests from
the power companies for tariff changes and rate increases, aid it has
fostered the consolidation of numerous small utilities, particularly in the
North Atlantic Region. The nluistry of Nines and Energy is charged with
formlating national policy for the generation, transmission and distribution
of electricity.
Recent Developments
35.      During the past three years the power sector has suffered financial
problems caused mainly by lover than expected revenues resulting from tariff
adjmstuent delays, slow demand growth, rationing, and higher than expected
local cost shares of investments as well as insufficient availability of
31 Empresas Publicas de Iedellin (EPK), Empresa de Energia Electrica de
Bogota (EEN), Corporation Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA),
Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca (CVC), and Instituto
Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL).



- 13 -
financing. Local borrowings needed by the sector have outpaced the domestic
banking system's lending capability. Moreover, Government-related lending
earmarked for the sector was held back and external borrowings was amthorized
only on a highly selective basis because of the higher prioridty accorded to
short-term economic management of inflation.
36.       As a result, dhen the current national administration took office
In August 1982 the sector's financing deficit for the year was estimated to
amount to USS430 mdllion; at the same time, the previously-favorable lending
climate for Colombia in the international capital market became affected by
developments in other Latin American countries and began to deteriorate. In
*         the Fali of 1982, the authorities moved quickly to review the sector
financing plan and to authorize badly-needed rate increases; by the end of
1983 electricity rates had been raised by 44% over the becember 1980 level in
excess of the consumer price index. In addition, the authorities scaled down
sharply the National Power Expansion Program in the light of slower demand
grovth and insufficient financing availabilities. The Govermsent has also
taken other actions to mobilize needed external and local resources to ensure
that high priority electricity projects under construction would be completed
as currently scheduled. The Bank assisted in this effort by collaborating
closely with the authorities to put FEN on an operational footing and by
providing financing for these on-going projects through a US$170 million Bank
loan and by supporting a US$200 mdilion cofinancing B-loan package.
C. The Water and Power Market of Medellin and Its Environs
37.       Medellin is the capital and principal center of Antioquia, the most
heavily populated department in Colombia. Situated in the Central Mountain
range, Kedellin and its immediate suburbs account for about one-half of the
department's estimated 3.5 million people. Colombia's industrialization
began in MeJellin which for many years was the leading industrial and
commercial center in the country. Though it has been overtaken by thte
rapidly groving Bogota, it is still the major industrial center for produc-
tion of a large range of commodities, including textiles, garments and
leather goods, and accounts for about 232 of the country's industrial employ-
ment and 19% of its output. Surrounding Medellin is also a r,ch agricultural
area farmed by notably efficient small owner-operators producing flowers,
beans, vegetables and a variety of other food crops. Colombia's major coffee
producing region is also nearby.
38.       The area within about a 35 km radius of Medellin includes a large
number of towns ranging in population from about 10,000 to over 100,000
inhabitants. These towns have been growing rapidly since the pUyslcal growth
potential of Nedellin is approaching its limits beeause of topographical
constraints. Two major developments are expected to influence greatly the
spatial development of the entire southern region of the department.
Construction of a new Medellin airport at Rio Negro, in an adjacent valley,
is currently underway with the assistance of a 'Rak loan. An industrial and
free trade zone is also planned for construction close to the airport.
Together, these developments are expected to result in substantial long-term
growth of industry, population, housing and services. Another urban complex
is also planned north of Medellin adjacent to a town with over 100,000 popu-
lation, which may nearly double by 1990. The demand for public services,



- 14 -
including water, sewage and electricity, can also be expected to grow rapidly
in areas further outside Medellin.
39.      At present, Nedellin obtains its water supply from a number of
sources, of which the rivers Negro and the Buey each contribute nearly balf
of the total. Various small rivers and streams within the urban area are
being taken out of service because of high levels of contamination and
encroaching urbanization. By 1990, the Rio Grande river vill account for
about 40Z of the total water supply in the EPM system.  WPM supplies water to
861 of urban inhabitants and sewage services to 68Z. Forecasts of future
coverage indicate that by 1990, both water supply and sewerage will reach
90%, and total water customers are expected to increase from 240,000 in 1983
to 340,000 in 1990. Consumers comprise households (711), commercial
establishments (12Z), industry (9Z), amd others including government (8Z).
During the last three years, residentiaL and commercial consumption increased
slightly faster than the total, while industrial and government consumption
declined, the former related to the country's slower economic growth rate.
40.       EPM has been doing a remarkable job of realigning its market area
well beyond municipal boundaries in line with the pattern of urban develop-
ment in the Aburra valley, and its water and sewerage policy reflects sensi-
tivity to social welfare considerations. By 1985, EPM will provide service
to three additional neighboring municipalities and continue to improve cover-
age gradually throughout the project period. The contractual arrangements
between EPM and Envigado, Sabaneta and La Estrella would be completed by
March 15, 1985 (Section 3.08 of draft Loan Agreement). In line with the
objective to improve service in the Department, UPM would also absorb some of
the areas now served by the weaker Acuantioquia and outlying municipalities,
which is to be financed entirely by EPM. In 1983, EPM provided water supply
to over 46,000 poor households consisting typically of 5 or more persons and
total family income of less than US$320 per month. To accommodate nely
served areas, which usually are populated by low-income residents, and
low-income households in its current service area, EPM provides a fiwancial
assistance program for them. Under this program, EPM finances distribution
lines and house connections for water, sewage and electricity, including a
subsidy for poorer subscribers. For water and sewage, the maximum repayment
period is 120 months at a mlni=um interest of 0.5% monthly.
41.       EPM supplies electricity to the city of 1edellin, to 25 of the
Departmental towns and, through bulk sales to the Electrificadora de
Antioquia, to 77 small municipalities, thus covering about 86% of the 118
municipalities in Antioquia. In line with its efforts to upgrade the quality
of basic services in the Department, EPM has recently reached agreement with
the Electrificadora whereby EPX undertakes the technical, financial, adminis-
trative and economic management of the weaker utility, in which EPM owns
10.41 of the shares.  It is expected that EPH wil gradually extend its
transmission facilities in the Electrificadora's service area. In 1983, EPM
served directly 345,000 customers, plus a further estimated 145,000 users
through sales to the Electrificadora, with sales reaching a total of 4,200
GWh. Households (401), industrial (241), commercial (81) and block sales
(201) are EPM's major customers. Reflecting the growth of industrial,
commercial and agricultural activity, EPH's sales through end-1983 have been



- 15 -
increasing rapidly at an annual average rate of 7Z since 1975 and 6.2Z since
1979- EPM's sales are expected to continue growing during the period 1984-90
(about 7.4% on average per annum). 5ross per capita consumption in EPK's
supply area in 1983 was on the order of 1,200 kWh, probably the highest in
the country. To serve the expanding market and improve the coverage and
quality of services In rural areas, EPM will undertake substantial
investments in new facilities, both directly and through participation in
ISA.
42.       EPM's expansion program (1984-91) includes the Guadalupe IV and
Playas Projects for which Bank loans were approved in 1980 and 1981. These
projects are well underway and are proceeding satisfactorily. Together with
ISA and its other partners, EPM will also participate in least cost operation
of the national electricity network and in preparation for this is construc-
ting a regional load dispatch plant and is contributing to the national load
control study. The aforementioned generation projects as well as the
proposed one, will enable EP! to continue to meet power demand in its
existing service area, provide electricity to consumers currently without it
or inadequately served by local utilities, and to provide part of the energy
and capacity needed to meet the requirements of the interconnected system,
including substitution of hydrobased electricitv for more costly thermal
generation in the North Atlantic Region.
D. Bank Participation in the Water and Power Sectors
Water
43.       With more than US$250 million committed in loan funds for water
supply and sanitation projects since 1968, or about 7% of total Bank lending
over this period to Colombia, the Bank has been the main source of external
funds for sector investments. In the past, the Bank used a three-pronged
approach to provide funds to the sector. Financing for large urban centers
was provided through loans directly to the municipal companies (e.g. Bogota,
Cali). By far the largest borrower has been Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota to which the Bank has lent US$132 million in three
separate operations; a fourth project is being prepared. The Bank's projects
in medium-site cities were financed using INSFOPAL as an intermediary.
INSFOPAL has also been the channel used to execute water supply components of
urban development projects financed by the Bank. Int rural areas, the Bank
participated in the financing of water supply schemes executed as part of
Integrated Rural Development Projects and Nutrition Improvement Projects.
Bank assistance has covered all but one of the major cities, nearly all of
the medium-sized urban areas, and rural areas in 14 departments. Ferformance
under the loans to the Bogota water supply company has been generally
satisfactory and the loans have led to significant improvements in service
levels and institutional strengthening. However, the Project Performance
Audit Report for Loan 536-CO (Bogota Water Supply Project)4! noted the
importance of carefully evaluating the growth of demand aid per capita
consumption, and the negative impact of cost overruns because of inflation.
Project Performance Audit Reports have also been issued for two smaller loans
made by the Bank to the manicipal enterprises in Cali (US$18.5 million) an!
Palmira (US$2 million)5/. While most of the basic objectives of both
4/ SecH 78-260.
5/ SecH 79-632 and SecM 83-714.



- 16 -
projects were achieved, substantial cost overruns were experienced because of
construction delays in an inflationary environment. Financial performance
was unsatisfactory in both cases. The foregoing was taken into account in
the preparation of the proposed project.
44.       The Bank has made three loans to INSFOPAL for the expansion of
water supply and sewerage services in medium and sma l-size cities. On the
whole, Bank involvement under these loans has helped improve water supply and
sewerage services although it has not been particularly successful in meeting
institution-building objectives for INSFOPAL. la terms of meeting such
objectives, the Bank has been somewhat more successful with the Bogota loans
and to some extent Cali, although US$5.8 million of the Second E(CALI loan of
US$13.8 mlllion was cancelled mainly because of non-compliance with financial
covenants. Faced with the failure of INSFOPAL to become a strong regulatory,
technical support and financial assistance institution, the Bank has adopted
an alternative approach. This second-best strategy focuses lending selec-
tively upon municipal entities with sufficient financial and operational
capability to ensure efficient construction and utilization of new facili-             (
ties. The Cucuta Water Supply and Sewerage Project now being processed
(US$18.5 million), as well as the proposed project reflect this approach.
45.       EPY's water division is generally efficient and well-managed.
Further strengthening would be pursued under the project through technical
assistance and training of water division staff. EPM has already demonstra-
ted responsiveness to Bank advice, as evidenced by actions taken regarding
project design, the phasing of implementation, tariffs and other financial
measures. The proposed loan represents the first Rank assistance to EPM for
water supply. 1DB has financed four water supply projects and is expected to
finance a fifth that would be complementary to the proposed project. Tn
early 1980, the Baxk also made a loan to EP( for part of its telecommunica-
tlons expansion and Improvement program.
Power
46.       Since 1950, the Bank has made 28 loans to Colombia's power sector,
totalling US$1,544 million, or 39? of total Bank lending to Colombia. Past
loans have assisted the expansion of generating capacity, and transmission
and distribution facilities in the systems serving Medellin, Bogota, Cali,
Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, including expansion of electricity
distribution to low income areas. Loans since 1978 would complete the task
of interconnecting the country's regional power systems and add a total of
3,253 MW of capacity to the national interconnected system, as well as extend
urban, village and rural distribution networks. The most recent loan in the
power sector was the Power Development Finance Project in 1984 to help
finance 1984-85 sector investments. In addition to coordinating a technical
assistance project to strengthen system planning, the Bank is the executing
agency for another UNDP-financed project which would enhance the sector's
construction management capability for large hydroelectric facilities.
Further, in connecti-n with Bank lending, marginal cost tariff studies have
been carried out for the major markets by ISk's shareholders. The adoption
of the results of the studies into the various tariff structures is under
discussion with the Government. Taken together, the above-mentioned projects
reflect the Bank's participation in overall power development in Colombia,
from the planning stage through financing and construction of generation and
transmission facilities, to delivery of service to the final consumer.



- 17 -
47.       Previous Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been found
generally successful in several OED reports. For instance, the most recent
report, -Power Interconnection (575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects
(681-CD)- (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979), c-mmented upon the Bank's par-
ticipation in Colombia's effort to evolve a stro%er and more efficient power
sector organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunction with these
projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and institutional diffi-
culties, real progress was made tovard more coordinated sector development.
Despite implementation delays and increased costs, both projects were
successfully implemented. Also, the report entitled 'Bank Operations in
Colombia, an Evaluationu (Report No. M-18) of Yay 25, 1972, concluded that
U         Bank financing was successful in assisting the power companies to develop
hydroelectric plants at lover unit cost than they otherwise would have been
able to do. In turn, this permitted greater urban coverage as well as
cheaper and more reliable electricity supply to industry. The report
commended Bank efforts in the establishment of JNT and the central inter-
connected system, which facilitated further power sector development. Among
other things, the report recommended that in the future the Bank pay
increased attention to the companies' financial planning, tariff structures,
distribution programs and energy losses. These points have been addressed
under the aforementioned recent loans.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
48.       The project was prepared by EPM with the assistance of consultants,
and was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Colombia in October 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington during the week of May 21, 1984, with a
Colombian delegation led by Dr. Jorge Serpa, Director of Public Credit of the
M-nistry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
49.       The mnan project objective is to support Colombia's efforts to
develop the economic and social infrastructure needed to facilitate growth
and well-being. This aim would be furthered under the water supply component
of the proposed project by construction of the infrastructure needed to
provide, by 1990, safe and reliable water supply to approximately 61,000
households currently without water or poorly served, over 10,000 commercial
establishments, and 8,700 manufacturing and industrial concerns in the
Department of Antioquia. Under the project, EPM will also take over
inadequate services in three neighboring municipalities, upgrading and
expanding them. The power component of the project would help ensure
availability of the electricity needed by the same year in the Department
and, in line with Colombia's efforts to diminish reliance on non-renewable
hydrocarbons, would help the country to reduce costly thermal generation in
the national interconnected system. Also supported under the project are
environmental management and reforestation, data base management and staff
training.
Project Description
50.       The water component of this multipurpose project constitutes the
first phase of EPM's 1984-90 development program for potable water. This



first phase consists of construction of the raw water facilities. The second
phase, expected to be financed by IDB, would include construction of a water
treatment plant and the related distribution networks and sewerage expansion
which vill be carried out by EPH in accordance with a timetable agreed with
the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.01 of draft
Guarantee Agreement). EPH's 1982-91 power expansion program, consisting
mainly of hydro-based generation, transmission and distribution facilities,
is designed to provide 9,0no GWh of electricity, of which the Rio Grande
facilities represent about 21Z. The 300 MN Rio Grande hydro station at an
incremental cost of about US$600 per installed kW, vill be represents by far
the lowest cost plant in the future national system. The project also
includes consulting services, training and computer facilities as detailed
below. The main characteristics of the project are as follows:
The Tasajera hydro pover plant, which will be constructed on
the Rio Grande River about 28 km northeast of the center of
Medellin, with a 110 million z useful capacity reservoir. Average
annmul generation would be about 1600 GWh. Project works include
an earthen dam on the Rio Grande River and an open spillway, intake
tower (combined with raw water intake), pressure tunnel with two
shafts, surge tanks, steel penstock in the tunnel, underground
power house (with 3 units of 100 MW each), and tailrace tunnel;
The Niquai water and power facilities consisting of an intake
shared with the power intake, a tunnel, surge tanks, steel-lined
penstock, surface power station with an initial capacity of 22.5
MW, a subsurface tank, and a steel pressure supply line leading to
the future water treatment plant. Initial average annumal
generation would be about 105 CWh, increasing subsequently to 156
GRh, depending upon the requirements for raw water.
Transmission facilities consisting of one surface substation at
Tasajera; a 220 kV transmission line of about 13 km between
Tasajera and Barbosa; another surface substation at Niquia; and a
44 kV transmission line of about 5 km between Niquia and Bello.
Consulting services comprising a Board of Consultants for general
assistance and technical advice, and consultants for design and
construction supervision;
Training comprising a program to enhance the operational capabili-
ties of EPM's staff in the areas of power, water, administration
and finance. By December 31, 1989, EPM would have carried out a
training program acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.01(b)(i) of the
draft Loan Agreement); and
Data processing network consisting of the second phase (the first
was financed under Loan 1868-CO - Guadalupe IV) of EPM's computer
data processing network covering power, water and telephone
divisions, including 24 micro computers that will interface with
EPM's existing main frame computer. A third phase, including
additional software aui training, would be completed later on the
basis of experience during the first two phases.



- 19 -
Cost and Financing
51.       Total financing requirements, including interest during construc-
tion (US$55.7 million) are estimated at US$418.1 million, of which US$7,2.9
million (60%) corresponds to the foreign exchange component.  Project costs
are based on end-1982 estimates prepared by INTEGRAL (Consultants, Colombia),
and, adjusted to end-April 1984; they include physical contingencies
amounting to approximately 13%. Price contingencies, equivalent to about
1 2.7% of base costs plus physical contingencies, are based on estimates of
local inflation, exchange rate adjustments and foreign inflation. Local
costs would be covered by EPM (US$151.6 million) and FOMADE (US$13.6
t        milLion).  Foreign costs would be financed by commercial banks under a
proposed B-loan arrangement (US$65.5 million), suppliers' credits (US$22.9
million), and the Bank loan (US$164.5 million). Action on the B-loan would
be deferred until 1985 because the expenditure involved will not occur before
then. However, given uncertain capital market conditions, EPM's financial
projections assume that it will provide most of the funds in question and the
corresponding tariff commitments will be adjusted if the cofinancing loan
materializes (paras. 59 and 62).
The Borrower, EPM
52.       EPM is an autonomous company owned by the Municipality of
Medellin. Established in 1955, it is responsible for providing Medellin and
nearby areas with electricity, water, sewerage, and telephone services. The
utility is governed by a seven-member Board of Directors and a General
M-anager appointed by the Board. The General Manager is responsible for day-
to-day operations and is assisted by five Managers, heading, respectively,
the power, water and sewerage, telephones, administration and finance
departments. A secretary-general in charge of legal matters and office
records reports directly to the General Manager. The organization is
administered separately for each of the three services, which function
financially Independently of each other. The Board of Directors is headed by
the Mayor of Medellin who selects the remaining members at large.
53.       EPM has benefitted from stable and capable leadership at top
management levels. Overall management and staff are well-qualified and
competent. Average length of employment is about 20 years and pay scales are
attractive on the whole. EPM has a good training program for existing and
new staff and recently has constructed a new training center. To enable the
entity to reduce reliance on consultants for detailed design, procurement and
construction supervision, the Guadalupe TV Project (1868-CO) provided
financing for highly specialized training of EPM's professional staff, and
this training program would continue wlth financing under the proposed
project (para. 50).
54.       EPX had 4,418 employees as of October 1983, of which 2,113 pertain
to power and 1,256 work directly in the Power Department. Staff production
ratios are reasonable, at 2.3 GWh and 160 customers per employee in 1983.
These figures compare favorably with those of other electric utilities
serving similar markets. The number of employees pertaining to EPM's Water
Supply and Sewerage staff (WSS) in August 1982 was 930, plus a pro-rata share
of common services amounting to 341. This is equivalent to 167 employees per
1,000 connections, a relatively efficient ratio.



- 20 -
55.       EPM's accounting and internal audit systems are satisfactory.
Independent external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would continue to
carry out annual audits under the proposed loan (Section 5.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement). EPM maintains adequate insurance coverage of its power
assets, and would do so in the future (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Finances
56.       A consolidated review of all three departments (power, WSS and
telephones) shows a satisfactory flow of funds through the uroject period.
Annual debt service coverage (net of investments in ISA, in the case of
power) for each department would be at least 1.5 during 1980-1989 (Section
5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Agreements reached confirnm local arrange-
ments which proscribe financial interaction between the divisions, except on
commercial terms and conditions (Section 5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
EPN's power and WSS departments would not undertake investments exceeding IU
of respective revalued fixed assets in operation of the respective department
unless the investment is currently included in the investment programs, or
unless a proposed new investment would be economically viable and adequate
financing would be available (Section 5.10 of draft Loan Agreement).
Further, EP!( would not undertake investments unrelated to the operations of
its three departments (Sections 5.09 and 5.10(b)) of draft Loan Agreement).
EPM retains all its profits although, since 1955, each department has been
required to pay an anmal tax to the Municipality of Medellin based upon
gross revenues: Power, 4.425x; Telephones, 3.420Z; Water Supply, l.993Z; and
Sewerage, 2.4372. Because of its integrated collection system (all services
are billed in a single invoice) and service interruption policy, receivables
are less than 2-months of billings, which is an exceptional record in Latin
America.
57.       Water. The recent financial performance of EPM's water supply and
sewerage operation has been satisfactory, with operational cash generation
baving almost tripled during 1980-83. Internally generated funds, net of
changes in working capital, financed about 50Z of capital expenditures (ex-
cluding donated works) during the period. Borrowings, mainly from IDB,
financed the remaining 50Z. Additional works were donated by urban deve-
lopers or beneficiary municipalities. Debt service coverage during the same
period was satisfactory in spite of a substantial increase in borrowings.
The 1983 financial performance was not as strong as in previous years; never-
theless, its 1983 net income was US$7.5 million equivalent (under current
depreciation procedures6/), while internal cash generation net of changes in
working capital, financed about 37% of WSS' investments of US$32.5 million
6/ Based on unrevalued fixed assets. A net loss of US$200,000 equivalent
would be reported if depreciation on revalued fixed assets were applied.



- 21 -
(excluding donated works). About 63X of this program was financed by
borrovings. Finally, urban developers and municipalities added about US$5
million equivalent worth of new assets for EPM's water and sewerage opera-
tions.
58.       EPM's 1984-91 WSS investment prograw amounts to about US$457
million equivalent in current prices. Ir ircludes on-going projects; the Rio
Grande investment; interest during construction; regular expansion works,
*       pollution control of the Medellin river; donated works; and working capital
requirements. Internally generated funds would finance about 52% of the
proposed investment program. Borrowings including the proposed Bank loan are
expected to finance about 36.5% of this program.  Urban developers and
beneficiary municipalities would finance the remaining 11.5Z.
59.       The projected cash generation in the financing plan is based on the
company's planned tariff increases, which would result in progressive charges
considered well within consumers' capacity to pay, including low income
households. EPM would continue to increase its water rates by at least 1.8Z
monthly through end-1988, supplemented by a lump 15% increase in 1985. The
agreed rates of return, based upon EPX's projected tariff program, would rise
from 1.1% on fully revalued assets in 1984 to 6% by 1988 (Sections 5.07 and
5.08 of draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
In view of the high satisfactory self-financing ratio together with social
impact of safe and reliable sound potable water supply, these figures are
acceptable. The debt service coverage ratio would range from 3.0 in 1984 to
1.9 in 1989, well above the minimum acceptable level of 1.5 (see para. 56).
60.       Power.  Throughout Its 24-year relationship with the Bank, EPM's
Power Division has maintained a satisfactory financial position, except for
the years 1974-75. The measures taken under recent agreements with the Bank,
including annual revaluation of assets, have considerably strengthened EPM's
financial structure. Since 1976, its internal cash generation has comple-
mented adequately its financing requirements, fluctuating from 23% of its
investment needs in 1978, to 67% in 1979, and 30% in 1983, including substan-
tial contributions to ISA. This may be attributed in large part to the high
density of its market and low-cost facilities, given the area's geographic
advantages for hydro generation. The balance of the company's investment
funds has been obtained through borrowings, generally at reasonable cost; no
subsidized Government funding has ever been required. At the end of 1983,
EPN's debt/equity ratio was 31/69, calculated on the basis of revalued
assets, and the debt service coverage ratio (including investments in ISA)
was 1.6. The company's cash and working capital have been adequate; the
current ratio reached 4.2 in 1980 and was 2.1 in 1983.  On average, accounts
receivable have not exceeded the equivalent of 55 days of yearly sales since
1979.
61.       EPM's 1984-1991 power investment program, including construction
and studies for future projects and investments in ISA, interest during
construction, and requirements for working capital, amounts to US$1,245



- 22 -
million equivalent. The proposed Rio Grande project is the largest single
component of EPM's construction program, representing 18.4% of the total.
Investments in ISA account for another 20.6%. The remaining 61% consists of
other generation plants, transission and distribution. EPN's net internal
cash generation would finance 63% of total investment requirements through
19917/, and the remaining 37% would be covered by loans, with a small por-
tion derived from donated works. The proposed loans for the power component
of Rio Grande total US$154.9 million of which US$114.3 million would come
from the Bank with the balance planned to be covered by: (a) suppliers' cre-
dits, US$23 million; (b) commercial banks, US$6.7 million for the 15X down-
payment required by suppliers, and US$8.9 million in already-disbursed loan
proceeds; and (c) FONADE, US$2.0 million. Nost of the borrowings required
for projects under construction, aggregating US$402 million have already been
obtained.
62.       The projected cash generation in EPH's financing plan is based upon
the company's planned tariff increases. The plan assumes continuance through
1988 of the recently reinstated 2.2% monthly tariff Increase plus a further
increase of 10% in October 1985. In addition, montnly increases of 1.8%
would continue after 1988. Based on the foregoing, EPN's projected net opera-
ting income from power operations would produce minlmum annual rates of re-
turn on fully revalued assets ranging from 7% in 1984 to 12% in 1986 and 10%
thereafter (Sections 5.07 and 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The power division's debt service
coverage ratio during 1984-89 would range from 1.9 in 1984 to 1.8 in 1989
which is considered satisfactory. It is expected that the power division's
debt/equity ratio would not exceed 41159, except marginally in 1985 and 1986.
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursement
63.       All the items to be financed by the proposed loan (other than con-
sulting services) would be procured by international competitive bidding
(ICB) under Bank guidelines. Colombian manufacturers would receive a margin
of preference of 15Z or the applicable import duties, whichever is the lower,
for purposes of bid evaluation. The cost estimates assume that local manu-
facturers would be able to supply some items required for the project, the
cost of which is estimated not to exceed US$3 million equivalent.
64.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 58% of expenditures for
civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
and 91Z of locally-procured equipment and materials; (c) 100% of foreign ex-
penditures for foreign consultants, and 50% of total expenditures for local
consultants; and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures for training and related
equipment and 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
and materials for the data processing network. Because the water component
would be completed by 1988, and the execution of civil works requires strict
seasonal planning, EPM has contracted the main civil works in advance and, in
agreement with the Bank, has retained the design engineers for project super-
vision. Bid documents for the contracted works have been reviewed and found
acceptable by tne Bank. Retroactive financing for the above-mentioned pur-
poses, for an amount not exceeding US$13 million, has been included in the
loan.
7/ Internal cash generation may be slightly reduced if the situation of
international capital markets allows EPM to make greater use of foreign
commercial bank credit over this period.



- 23 -
65.       Loan proceeds would be disbursed into a dollar-denominated
special account in Banco de la Republica, to be establshed by EPl( solely for
the purposes of the project. The Bank would make an nitial deposit into the
fund of US$8 Million.   Isbr s from the special accont would be made
for eligible expenditures under the Loan. Special account   flen         of
the dollar equivalent amount of disbursemts from that account vould be made
upon receipt of withdrawal applications from EP. For civil vwocs, these
applications would be under a certified starement of expenditures. After
disbursement from the loan account of a total of US$140 million, the Bank
would begin to recuperate the initial deposit. In addition to the external
auditing of EP( (para. 55) the revolving fund account will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 5.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The Closing Date of the Loan vould be December
31, 1991.
66.       EPK has created a separate project unit for Rio Grande. The peak
level manning of the unit will be 27 professional and 75 other staff. The
unit will be gradually manned in 1984 comnsurately with the start and
build-up of the -aif civil works. In accordance with the usual practice for
construction of hydro projects financed by the Bank, an independent Board of
Experts, comprising three consultants would be appointed to meet at least
twice annually (or as required) to study the execution of the project, the
results of any pertinent reports, surveys or monitoring action.
Environ_ental Aspects
67.      Any environmental impact would originate principally in the
reservoir, the intake and tailrace faclities, the surface power station and
raw water tank, the conduit to the treatment plant and the substation and
transmission lines. The area to be affected, which was largely owned by
absentee landlords, is about 5,700 ha. of which 1,100 ha. pertains to the
reservoir. EPM has a comprehensive long-term program for creating recreation
facilities within a new forest area to be developed that would cover vast of
the 5,700 ha. This would reduce soil erosion and siltation of the reservoir
as well as encroachment by settlers. Most of the silt iu the river is
presently caused by numerous small uines operating on the embankment of the
river, and this vould be Uliminated by the forestation program. About 100
persons were affected and, except for a few still on land to be acquired,
have iined. About 90% of the land needed has been acquired to date. EPH
will have completed land acquisition by December 31, 1936 (Section 3.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
68.       This dual purpose project would have a considerable impact on the
department of Antioquia. Water supply vill be increased substantially to
meet increased demand in Nedellin and other nearby municipalities aid EPM
vill provide water and sewerage services to three additional municipalities
which are populated mainly by low-income residents. In all, 87,000 new water
connections are anticipated by 1990 as a result of the new supply. Addi-
tiorna pover would be provided to meet the growing needs of Antioquia, ad
energy would also be made available to the interconnected system which
supplies hydra-energy to the North Atlantic coast to decrease costly therml



generation. in general, the project wotld enable EPi! to integrate the
provision of basic public serwlces to urban aid rural consumers, as the
benefits of FEP's efficient organization and high quaty of services become
available at reasonable cost to adjoining comities which hitherto have
been dependent on weaker suppliers of these services.
69.      A return on investment vas calculated by relatig the combind
costs (capital and            operatlnglmainteoance costs) of EPW"s 1983-90
development program for water and power to estimated i--nem --t-l revences at
levels that would prevail over the period (as a proxy for benefits). On thbs
basis, the return on investment would be 18Z, well above the estimated oppor-
tnidty cost of capital in Colombia-  The inetal revenues, owever,
considerably understate the true economic benefits sice they exclude social
and health benefits.
70.      The project is subject to risks norally associated with large
civil works In difficult terrain. The works will be constrcted wstly under
geological conditions simllar to other large hydro projects In the area that
have been or are being carried out successfully. Also, EP£ staff aid itts
consultants have wide experIence In this type of work. Therefore, the
project is expected to be carried cut as scheduled. There is also a risk-
that the return on investment may be less than expected if capital costs
would be siificy    her thn povded for, or if quantified benefits
would be substantially lower than anticipated because  c slower growt of
revrenues. Even in a worst-case scenario, however, the projects rate of
return is expected to remain welU abo e the opportunity cost of capital-
i.e., above 1lZ.
PART V: LEGLL  I  IUMENTS AAD AUTHORITY
71.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank aid EPh, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic oE Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(ii1) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
72.      Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
73.      1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART TI:  REC0HMEEITIOE
74.      1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Claase
Presadent
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1984



25                         ~~~~~AnsuezI
Page I of 5
SOX    . ilco              mz  S11
-  sct _-  r
Sam    UR                                  -
cm  - cwrm COW                   270.9     440.0    1306.0           20111_2     (               ) s
caLmainm  OF CN. NcuL.)       5232       130.0     93.-            1407.6               lImE.
-~~~~~~~s oes we -
-ag  vorm.aow; C- Or 1013.     48.2       59-a      4L"             65.9                  47.3
:pwmiATm  IffA  209 031L)                           30-3                                    _
1g E53 cRS  XM  N eU.L                             212
mm SN- W-                     13.8     iS..       22..             3S.6
I= 50- U. ACML LM             49        60.7      72.6             93.2                1572
M6rOA;ZwF AGE STIBC     rn-
0-14 ls                      A         46.2      33               4L.l                 32.9
15-64 Vs                      3010.     SZ.1      60..             53.8                 10.9
6S AM. AEW                    2.9        7.8       3.4             4.1                   7-2
3-_       3.0       2.0             2.3                   1.6
5.7                        5.2       2.6              3.7                  3.4
CYCNE  CO 341 c3m  2E)       46.7      3&'       29.4             31.5                 M5O
OmEw  RATE3421 (mom"           15.3      107         7.7             3-I                   9.2
G     3f!3                      3.3       2.6        1.r             2.0                   1-7
FAI.Y YLA3M
ACCMMWS. AMMI CTI.U)            .-     1ls4       92.38               
-s  C:- OF &ami   w0lo                  34.0      46.0C              .-
pow AM   m. 3m c
C(1969-71-1,00)                 0.0      9.        124.0     _      1.                  aZsW_
-m caP m  S   or
- CtEI C: OF 3I1ND3            96.0       29.0     103-0           111.3                 129.6
3Mm~ (CL5 PM  5a)              6.0      40.       55.0            0.-9                  92-3
CF 6633 AEV6CL AN POLSE      23.0      26.0       mom0/           36.?                 :46
CI.M CAGI 1-4) MMMM            14.0       7.1       ip_5.                                 13-4
LItE  ?  AT 31R23 C!EhP        33.1       3.9       63.3 S462                             67.2
DWA31 MW. 3111 (3M 3          103.0      77.0       33..?           62.6                  71.4
ACCS 10 SalE mm~ (ZPIOf
_a_ m                         sQa  7e    -"   n2r                  7                      s8
209                            330/      630       t540f  lQ   7J.S*_
_WE.                           6*       23.0      46.2      0       6.3
A      tCC_ 0 Te   DI33m.
9nsTr or                                   o       ro               tLe                  1
TVEML                           -.      47.0      44.6/f           36.6
um.                                     75.0   C oler              69.
-AX& -C                                  60 zC_    4. oTF          ".1
NEUIATXrzC 3m  111c1*        2640.0    255_ 230.0/                 1773-0               2096.3
NP. m mSING PUSSI            4ZO.Ok    130L0      1220.d1          1022.2                762.5
-            N~~~~~P. mn 3021177. MD&
LOE                          360.      650.0     660.01           677.0                336.0
swam                            .      330.      490@.I           467.5                226.0
Nu=
ANEWCE NIL OF mESONSAt SJ
ua S-              S      )               slotT 5_r 
ro S C
:tNIL                                    z- 0      qt76                                   _
ACCS T0 OW  CZ OFISJO
attSm 10v; 0.2Cr. (260                                            *0
TSE                           47.0/     53.1/h                    *2.                  33
-_  1J5                       .s.7      377
__~~~~~~~./   ____.2__



- 26 -
Aunex 1
r AUt   ,                              Pajge 2of  5
-_               - sor<    W - y
~~.umA                tum~~~~~ ~~ws~ i  6Iffs0 £gwS) Is-
mm                     ca6sr as     Ksr9120 lb
5TED E             Ms
f-1D:  T0L.                    77.0    1seLo        2o.0            2050                   1ela
ms17.0   107.o      17.0             S33                   107.2
raw".                77.0      U10.0     230.0             20.0                   97.9
<3 :- WLM                      t2.0      25.0 MMD                     0.0 0"                 Ss
%CZ                   M0        M.        43.0              33.0                  63.4                         4
lnUAE                 1.10      24.0      "_0               U1.2 8.9
mocur        (0 cwsKmmum        30.a12     20.2 2s  o                  34. 0
3.0        3.0       3S-°             30.7                  26.7
m m                            l10      17.0       20-0             16.7                  z2.1
AD= LI1Q RAM C)                  @3.0      80.SI      a1.0            7t9S                   0.-7
1S*SENM C* SIflO311              5.7       11.W  2s MGM                43.6                  52.
3010 tWUSI2m3!10                 25.1      10L3      116.3            22.2                  1652S
Ti    J S           1            9.5       32         a.9             103L3                 124.2
PM      £  P0IS.A?              5O        ..       33..?            4-ZS                  96.3
ca   umA.          CA             ._         ..        z.               Z.                    2.9
TOM  LAMM 7010= C   )         4727.0    s3o        VW-.e
16. czC z)                     129.2      2Z.8      26.7             21.                   36.S
AI.TMK C153C!)                 51.4      3.9        25.8             31.3                  60.?
UD(1516100r                    19.2      n1.0       2t.2              #.9                  234
mARTlCaICZA     N KACER
TOM                        30LO      23.9       36.0             31.3                  42.0
EKE                            68.8      *S.1      s5 S              4*.                   55.2
13151                         11t.5      16.8       16.8              S" 1
1pr iN1E    3Mb             2.7       1.6        t.2              L.6                   0.9
.ZCK  or        tnac r
Dm -
MOM= N w mDS             .um   £2.21.    32 .9
TIIza er smlm              67.7B  s    ^           ----
UZIW    216 O    m.SMWA         2-    ~
,  zmsp  er-                       K myam
LZVIL CMS MM3 C*11U
GM=...                                     .       297.0rd          184.5
mZm CM                                      . -- --7M -1-.8
UARn.                           1...                22J.7137.                             409.0
2SuuiV m     ii's.N CNSL)
mm                               .,        _..     2olzs*
wrns.                            ..        ..      zsr.ete                                   ..
/a mm. stow  'werins for eow) lfca3r we pp.lMcloowwIgkui ArIhI2rcl "Ms.  ca"46m et Coe..umgtf auf the
Lnudcatutm I3      . a  vafllolty of dwat me 2U  Mt  fobs.
/b Uslemt otbIfUid noted. -D.ts sefor 9   refer to asw year be.    2953t Sam 196; -ta foir 1370r wbsa 1969 ma
1971; m. dam fur -Mm laest KatZmatietw   1979 and im0
le 1I78 la 1977; /a 1966 /f 1976; 1. 1962; lb 1923; It !ucl.2 teether tlagSi81 et tIm thud 1.,1 tj Eceoml*A1y
aeu. jnp1ti
n s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  298



- 27 -                                                       A=ex 1
Page 3 of 5
a    ,..5   5- ~ ~  -5.           4551155_        .            h.1 551.555nl              _-555         --7.-    . 555
-  1St.  -~  -.(15 5           --   555- a .5                           "  5-5     .-M  -   am          555-sm    -d"  2-I  5f.     .5" B..  IC 55-
4555s35.   f55          Itss    5-4..  -            5545-  5555   55.                    5  5              ft51   -    snft   5455755-             45   -
low5 .5.5    55       .        - n-55S   7..55                                5. - 15-54   5- 55                 ftw 55 ZA54l7.   55~-P  s5-  -4?
R*5.t -535   as..                                                                      SSZ.5   -          5  .*..-          a.I5,dt5
cw Plma Clot -S f.s    .5 5-sss. i-5-4 I-I,                   -5..55571-  pb    5- Ws                                         110 5-  5--55ZI7".5-- 5
Zn .       P 5   5fl 5-- md In4  2- ft- St. Is&5s.58 55                                   n%" fsdd ...a   ~
55                       55~~~~~ft-1070- 134 4.a.                                                              75.3.-   Zn555S55 -            Zn5.  55   . -   2.5S  - h....Ssz  .5s..   4
_'r'L -  .4 bra                           -     .L5  -354575-3155555 -W.15-5.                         -6
5. 555.L- .5 ,5 W                                                                           ...  ... 35L". 3-955555 d"          5    545.5-51   ~5.
.2pct--m  me W-M                                                     Sp.~~~~~~-  -S..".0955..  5--55Z5t535.4   5-Z. 515538
--.:L"   -     -Vrt- .1 I-                -5.55'        7-55555555IS-    n .T5
7155 1      5.-8t&.-P -              IL 5&   m~ 775175..55--=i34.  -5545-   51-  5,5s 55
5-.  ..5t~   ..     a-5.8  - t-.    *   3.5  *sa.@* t5  - 7555                    als.a."I. n.  .s5sc- 75s.5  es.                 .s-       
.55-  5.155 55.ss    .5.)  t*55 *.1750   Os3 s.s.
1555   -55555- ~5555-    n 455 -5 ..Sflt,-  W.51-                       5-55-
5.55  95155.555  -   -   5-  55-5  5-555 5- 15555              -                     85-55-34 1   .55-5. ft  .-e   -, .~t
5-5 5555.VZ55-57   W-.1  15   54    5 55   5n54.                                          s  5. 555  .5   --    -- 5S   .4. 5-  5-    we5  i- n
5-5.   -   -5-555  =155 55Z-5f      fdl55555  .-Y. 5-555545                         554545  -55
5555 S   55*555 55S55 s1 s5  5-  -  ~~~~~.554P-5-51W-U I
557.555- 5-85 1555555-.  555 5. .55555 ..5,. .15 5.ss55 ISP    5  anIse 5                        ".t5... 555-.
4.55   5        5755    51s   -s.sssa5   .c.                                                    55. - 55s5                .53  t.   5.5   55    58
5-5    555555  t  *pS..55551555*. t~.55555585.5~ S.!..57   555.55.55  5   s4555  5..5Mt5
7.5.55  .15-   -55555   -  -.5    5                   p..s55  5-555555-  s.5                                 .35-  5*55   .1-.545                       
W                           -d          W  ..... d-~~~~555555 57.555 b*n. 558  5-1.58 51                       555..  LUG'S. 5.ss5-.t5. d-.5-155741855                       5
e-.555    . 5'*1.s55 . ?      L 55-s. L- 5   n  55.-S5-                                    5.5S125  ..s 5.454.
55n 5-. 1355-55  4555             pSsaSs.5 sstss .t..5-ft, .s.t...-1                                                        5-5.8    5-55.
...35Se  55-.  551.ft a                 ...     U I755 155.t.5&.V      1"55  -                                 1         5..555158555               f555
7.sS.5     5955  751 ~4755  -             -, 5SSs-*5£    5S  St545   54                75.557         5555~_ 555   4555.45   a.! ft-L 5.5-558 
eSt.. LSn 1515.5. 5554.7..-....5.a1.-1. -ss-5.
7s71... 5..5  515551.555. 555.   nt57-b.555  t                             5.5 A5t57.ss 7s5  55..c1 - 5             ".s  - as.       21  dq..4- SS
5-5*555- 5.755155~5. Z5.55  5575.55... 5.5155.555-    55.4!                                                 55          5 Ida  z-       .
575-55.555. 55'?  5-5.4! .  s  5555 If ISIS jd7           l-5 .  -5t5--
!45 7.5.5555. 555.5~~~~~~~~~ 55.5. 554 515L 4555.         545555s5dI Is  4  -
55.. 55%  -55555   55    55-ieLSI .5 4-5153557.5n S;  555 55i5-S5 545.5555-  -5-955. 5-1.55-
Ulm..55  :.s..ss.al5-  es.                                                                  .sI'55  s5   555t.s55-d....                              ..5
35.55 5557555555 5.   - 4555-  7.55 -51.. 5-e    5553 5-75                      55557  58.
55. 757,s95555.75455 5. 57555555  555.5 .4-5.1fl             S45S 14t...5.t555.5555.55-.5. 45 7    5 1555Z5 55 145
7555   55   551155 455555           --  55*5.55  555! "    52   55                51-1 -- 55.41..  E., 5  S                454   -sa t   45
-   5.555   -55   -57 545555  51ad 5-Sn.57             If 55 -s.s               55-5.5 .575Se.S
U -t                                                                                                           -L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -55    55  55s5 sS5.5- 5*551  £57 5-5-255
*545.C .bat--                                                                                ..~55.   *5          . 55   555 17.3....   5   !*55.



Vw.ke,= 25.95.= CuM-1,44                                                                               IAE > -
Re NW       cslg (n                                                                                                   :rlp4e
~~rw  b W        83 T    E  -30: Dtr  -5   71   z   3
_o- _=m ,m Wd                                      8.4V     6.Z !  M  6.2    2.9   MCtt    0L      2L3    312.      X0    3D        ZIA
sum2am  ~        ~ =.6r 9;Y     E .=        MM       Ss        2      Liz  AIL       ".    J       b7          =     4         -
CM01-;?                          nl        JM   9, w  ,              A       aZ  7"         8L=     s         .;    7.9  a-m ;ELS 2
GM   m                    .4     =Jo    WA         9.M      sa5  L3          7.6    M        L5    2D .a    2!52   D        25.8  23@
BO= fa=     sCs          5SS.C7    4.       .9      3.3               i      l      ISl  ua   U6             NA      zo        a     9
26=9 of5 590dBmUS         d^      fm       64      4nw        3       i      7.      w  JoZ         I"       I3       ;      16 
0= CWL4d:W          a.im  1F.4       T^       7,Q      Si      SA      3.       LLI                  >                 2X    292 D
CO   2  OI&At_Mf CZ)
_- a--  yde)
D954Q  nto      u0      DE5    amI    1t        DQ
MOMM   mmE
~ ~mv=- am   37 2                   3                 33      6         9    ma n    TM      zm"                      X0.
MM  PM7l                        m        zr                        Er      my   -,) 6 1 =         -=       I      S :r   -duI:
:_aCe acums              W7       an!    li.                -       L 235           -      llLS    2LS    19-S    2D       MSL
odrso                             G        fO                      &a     -.8       -      VA      FQ   -L    t.    1Up 1DA
::=e_-mww  1cz           4. as                              . 3.5    241= sJf  0    ft                      IDM   11A    mmD
rm                      -w   [                            13S SW           irF -:r   -3z    -U                    -Cr      -
WUMASM   so       M       69             -nA              oz       ZD      2 -   LO               I         A
bqM7adIM                         i       2A6        5       "Z    -4   6          42J    40  ^       1  1L0         52  J "
0tb                     4mI  2.w         2^1    LS    53                           =9      M3      MA      VA      44Z     A"
M-~~~~~2 A¢JD MR O 
ar doilijew      VA      ~~~      ~~36  M    L    * -2. a3            2L5  7sA 
E:- PS  lo=3L5    3                                  SffJ     2=  tlOa         TM        I     to  t^7-
Mm   XI=,,s                    21tJ     27u1  33OL2      M"       A=       U"   2             IS    NW 7I5 
~~~=N~~~~mw                                 XL~~~~~DS  EL2
C_t_ (') cf C-)4-                                                         3.
pw_ f  h  ff                                               3.f3     31       23
_w p-- -      CZ)                                    ZAtD     4.D      L8
mm  ams7u                                                          0.32     Li7
af 'd bu tl    M
'R  acbM



p3pa1,q   3&_505.23 (m&t41Mo                              MAIM or mau., m         . cr   AnJI   I
GIP p1ra4g-                                                      ass9 at (eXflm        )                                        Aw's-o5   s
XsG zr :S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ana                                                    as n a r
En  ,     *      nu      iws      iws      is    ni_f   m a    no             5on
mq     o 1 f ad         §E,5WI.                2,16    2,5      3,44     4 03     4*5W     5.U6   4A,U    4,03    4,135        4,62    5.12     6XV
bvx= ofVD  and =Wtom  swikm               Z312    2.01     2.3n    Z.1      3.4n     3.939    5.A      6,W8    6 IM     3,52      5*6W    OPA      6,UIL
£  Balm                         ~~~~~~~~~~-M1  13  410      OK       44      719]Lz-14                                    -M               -6
-45~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_                             -323   ~~~~~i    -~~    -335    -23        -~~~~~~  Z~~~            ~         -1; _ 
zrec    Fi                 r2                        3D       39       40      At       se      114     212      223      2,        230    23         23
_c__           _     -ux3                             -p0      23      431      3        54       13    -_ -             - -a      - 2   -1          -_5
rat dlv-ct                               32       2D   14          43       GI  t6        72         2Z      2        190       20        3D   MD
M -  Ms kRe-c1w (a.-                        23                         1        46is              2  ad3        74=       AM         mg    1,501    I,3
dS  2bic J;eb                           cm       CZOL    (                  a       MO      amS 1,,  1>o              CCU  5        )    cm       i
D it±mr     r                               as)     t-3) Cm)          (-)C   (-3          )    (-)    (3)    (ML)   C-41)         (2)    CW()    (3)
'mdma                                       -M        -51      23 ffM           i        -.       24      23         I    -23U       -23       21       21
A==  BaMMe                             21      23       MM       403     213      105      5W     I-                 23        4WA   1.3       1.02
in                - - fin)                   356     -3       -W      -42      -410   -I         A       -M4 o  713Im t                               __
Mm f     -m1  =         (afIdaI)             12       547   I2,1        W      441    4,321    sAlD  .Sim    4            3,M       1,9    41=    1,6G
1 -  _ E fqi                                  0.9     3.2      6.0   SD         8.7    12.5      na       1.       9.1     6.         41       3.0     3.0
d:m                  = of   1m              31      3C       25'      35       3!       W2    I,7    I;fJ5    1,5W
_      }n.uI                                 47      42       43      25       61       35       46     S3       A
mtmoa                                     C45)    (40)       w      (39)    CB)      cm        m               C0()
m                                          (C-)     C-)     C-)      C-)      C-)     C-)      C-)      C-)     f-)
*                                          CZ)      (2)     (3)      CB)      (8)     (8)    (31)      C)      CW
329     315      214      3       Mg       93       SR    1.=      1,3z
WIinl cop=  (emdl                        19)      CIS)     CC)      (7)     (9)    (1O)      c)       0)    am
M                               m        m       m      ~~cm      a n     C139     cm      C25V  am
o                                         05)    (1)       (7zn     (5       (4 CI  C (3 3 C9S)    ()  cm      (27)
FDLO   rw £ft  O         di
Deb o=scmzt  ad Ad b                      2.33    2,2    2,22    ZZ    2Z0    3I=4    4,8    5,W               6
EffkIaL                                 1,3      1,72     I.29    1j0    1          2,S    Z.3       2,59    2,9
3-                                     cs(1     (fW)    (G2       M1)    (M)    cm         0m1.)  cL.M1   a(3C)
ML~~~~~scra c2m                                                                  cm                C21 2Ma
ochw                                  CZ-Om      (15)  a0)   a0m)  C0)    (.2               c0 0)  a31)
YcLvme                                    SD       6U      GM8      o2      813 a    ,23    1717    210    3,229
Msffmbu=md 0Aibc                 600  9     0      Ws      .M     I,S27 t,Q5        2.2     2,62    3,6
Dwal d m3bc297                                 23       269    3Ms       303      G        530     66       91
-fch 20113  s23                                     1       n13      20      72       2D8      5         77
-; It~malba
all mvim                                 25.3    10.7      9A       9.       9.3     29       8S6     2-6      V.
F-       - I                                2.      1.8      LA       1.6     1        2.3    1A       IA       2.3
-6 In      Mmm- 7M   l     (C3)        7.       7J3      6.7     7.3      7.9   J .         3. 3    2.0    ID
oflaf                                    (6.2    (6.3)   C36)    (7.3)   C(J)    (7.7)   C(.          (6)   (93)
PIm                                      (8.4)    (83      C7.)    (7.)    8        C(j)   (1.7)  C1.0   Ca1
*r. inbzlzyof _mw              mu)         16.D    153      1.9    16.2    14.3    A             6      12.9    146
w        C2Z7)   (23    (5    a3)   (1.) C7-.)   C(27-) CU.)   (1721)
PrIm                   (10.0)   (8.1)   (8.0)    (7.~~~~~or9)    (9,6  mm,0  mm.9   (1A-)    MM.9
p C-  E         7 CZ3) dl
M M WMAMl am                               2.3    2S.7    27.2    2.6    2L7          2.       213    V2L       3.7
I= dbmm               W.  8wm              129      VA      296    1Z,7    27A        14.3    2L2       EJ      19A,
I=dc dto_meal t~t det         .i           21.9     3L.8   3X.9    3.5       2.       19.5    27.3      1.3    10,9
M2L KMfm  am                                Li      0.9      0.9    OA      08         6      0.5     0A       0.3
1 dE mhm 1- gm_                             -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
201 det uwvIinhn1 debk svlm                 0.      003      0.2      0.1     0        0.1      Oa1     0.1      0.1
8R*k ad p cy g              de
ch 6, 2211
c2wIa DLwIsfi



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of March 31, 1984)
(US$million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,406.1  23.5 I/    -
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              4.6
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              5.3
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr.  64.0               1.1
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunnicaciones           Communications    58.3              25.5
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              7.3
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              8.1
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             24.8            11.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             20.1
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0             11.2
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y         Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0              4.5
1624    1979  Colombia                         Airports           61.0              1.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.0              2.0
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             10.1
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9              3.8
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                72.0             35.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       31.0             23.6
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reform Agraria                Agriculture Cr.   20.0              12.7
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA RDITS (as of March 31. 1984)
Number Year  Borrower                        Purpose           Bank   IDA- Undisbursed
1807    1980 Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power              87.0            49.3
16?5    1980  Eupresas Publicas de Medellin  Couzunications    44.0             11.3
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica          Industrial Cr.   32.0               2.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica          Industrial Cr.  150.0              85.9
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Nedellin  Power             125.0            87.4
1953    1981 Eupresas Publicas de Nedellin  Power               85.0            75.3
1966    1981  Colombia                       Rural Roads        33.0            18.2
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                   Irrigation         37.0            25.3
1999    1981  Corporacion Ele: i--ca -e -a
Costa Atlantica              Power              36.0            26.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
-            de Bogota                     Power            359.0            294.3
2069    1981  Iastltuto Nacional de los
Recurscs Naturales
Renovables y del Medio       Watershed
Ambiente                     Management          9.0             7.8
2090    1982 -Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways          77.0             77.0
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional            Hishways          152.3           139.4
2174    1982  Colombia                       Rural Develop-
meat            53.0            52.2
2192    1982  Fonda del Ninisterio de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0             13.3
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano           Agricultural
Agropecuarlo                   Research         63.4            62.7
234911  1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.     Coal
Exploration      9.5             9.5
23791/  1984  Colombia                       Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0            40.0
23012/  1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Power Develop-
ment Fiuance   170.0           170.0
TOTAL                                          3,818.8  23.5
Of which has been repaid                         837.5   4.1
Total now outstanding                          2,981.3  19.4
Amount sold                         51.0           -
Of which has been repaid            51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 2,981.3  19.8
Total undisbursed                                              1,435.8
1/ Not yet effective.
Z/ Not yet signed.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page Tof 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC I}VESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                           Type of             Amount in US$ Million
Year                   Obligor                   Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.         Fiber-board           .50               .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alizenticias
Noel, S.A.                    Food products        1.98    .08      2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.        Metal cans            .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                   Home furniture        .08    .09       .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.        Electrical equipment .50       -        .50
1962           Corporacion Financiera           Development
Colombiana                       financing            -   2.02      2.02
1962-1963      Corporacion Financiera           Development
Nacional                         financing            -   2.04      2.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de            Textiles            1.98    .15      2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Caldas                           financing            -    .81       .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging          -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de           Warehousing          1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera               Livestock            1.00    .58      1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles             5.00   2.61      7.61
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Pinanciera del       Development
Norte                            financing            -    .45       .45
1969           Corporacion Pinanc-era del       Development
Valle                            financing            -    .43        .43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism               .23    .11        .34  ,
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism              .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing                -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement              1.50      -       1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement              3.60      -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                       Mining               6.00      -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.          Utilities           13.00   2.00     15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                             Construction
Material         0.97   1.76      2.73



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Narch 31, 1984) (Continued)
Fiscal                                           Type of             Asouut in US$ Million
Year                   Obligor                   Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                   Leasing             9.00    .17       9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Coloubianos Ltd.        Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86     16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.  Food Processing       1.00   0.54       1.54
1984           Cementos Riocelaro S.A.           Cement and
Construction
Material        21.91  5.00      26.91
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.          Mining             10.65  1.64      12.29
Total Gross Comitments                               93.55  26.32    119.87
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                       62.28   9.60     71.88
Total commitments mw  held by IFC                    31.27  16.72     47.99
Total undisbursed (including                         33.56   7.06     40.62
participants)



- 34 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA S T
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:               30 months
(b) Agency which prepared project:                EPH/INTEGRAL
(c) First presentation to Bank:                   September 1982
(d)  First mission to review project:             November 1982
(e) Departure of Appraisal Xission:               October 1983
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                  May 29, 1984
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                September 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained that:
(a)  by March 15, 1985, EPM will have completed contractual arrangements
with the municipalities of Envigado, Sabaneta and La Estrella for
EPM's provision of water supply and sewerage services to them (para.
40);
(b) EPM will carry out the Second Phase of the Water Development Program
in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Bank (para. 50);
(c)  except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, annual debt service cover-
age for each of EPH's divisions would be not less than 1.5 (para.
56);
(d)  in line with current EPM procedures, funds generated by the power and
WSS divisions will not be transferred to other divisions, unless all
recurrent and capital expenditures have been covered and then only as
loans on commercial terms and conditions (para. 56);
Lkt 



- 35 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  without prior concurrence of the Bank, EPH will not make any capital
expeniditures not directly related to the operations of any of its
departments (para.56);
(f)  EPM would achieve a rate of return for its WSS division on fully
revalued assets of not less than 1.1% in 1984, 2.5% in 1985, 3.5% in
1986, 5.5% in 1987, 6.0% in 1988, and 5% in 1989 and thereafter
(para. 59); and
(g)  EPI would achieve a rate of return for its power division on fully
revalued assets of 7% in 1984, 10% in 1985, 12% in 1986, and 10% in
1987 and thereafter (para. 62)
Section IV: Amendments to Prior Agreements
Based upon updated estimates of the requirements of EPH's power
investment program, the annual rates of return on annually revalued power
assets in service have been adjusted froui 14% in 1984, and 12% in 1985 and
thereafter, to 7% in 1984, 10% in 1985, 12Z in 1986, and 10% in 1987 and
thereafter. On this basis, EPM would self-finance 62% of total power
Investment requirements during 1984-91.
f~~~~~~~






