Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14663
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MIJLTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 2449-CO)
JUNE 26, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                   Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1.00                                         Col$ 101.3 (1984 average)
US$1.00                                         Col$ 502.2 (1990 average)
US$1.00                                         Col$ 863.7 (1993 average)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                                       3.28 feet
kilometer (km)                                  0.62 mniles
square kilometer (sqkm)                         0. 39 square miles
cubic meter (cum)                               35.3 cubic feet
cubic meter per second (cumecs)   =             35.3 cubic feet per second
kilovolt (kV)                                   1,000 volts (V)
kilowatt (kWh)                    =             1,000 watts (W)
Megawatt (MW)                                   1,000 kilowatts
kilowatt-hour                                   1,000 watt-hours (Wh)
Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                             1,000,000 kilowatt-hour
Megavolt-ampere (MVA)                           1,000 volt-ampere (VA)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPM                        Empresas Pu6blicas de Medellin
ISA                 =      Interconexi6n Electrica S.A.
EEEB                =      Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
CORELCA             =      Corporaci6n Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CONPES              =      Consejo Nacional de Politica Econ6mica y Social
CRE                        Comision de Regulaci6n Energetica
DNP                        Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
IADB                =      Inter-American Development Bank
CVC                 =      Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Valle del Rio
Cauca
ICEL                =      Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
MME                 =      Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOF                 =      Ministry of Finances
JNT                 =      Junta Nacional de Tarifas
INCOMEX                    Instituto de Comercio Exterior
FONADE                     Fondo Nacional de Proyectos de Desarrollo
FEN                 =      Financiera Energetica Nacional
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on the Colombia
Rio Grande Multipurpose Proiect (Loan 2449-CO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Colombia: Rio Grande
Multipurpose project (Loan 2449-CO, approved in FY84) prepared by the Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II provided by the Borrower.
Empresas Puiblicas de Medellin (EPM), the municipally-owned autonomous utility
providing electricity, telephone, water supply, and sewerage services to the Medellin
Metropolitan area, was the Borrower. The project aimed at increasing EPM's power and
water supply capability by implementing combined facilities, adding 325 MW to the
electrical system and 4.5 m3 per second to the available raw water flow for water supply.
Despite adverse political and economic circumstances, EPM's performance was
satisfactory as it completed the project under budget. The four-year delay with respect to
the appraisal timetable was essentially due to a dispute with Government over the import
licenses for the powerhouse equipment. The tariffs conceded to EPM led to returns which
(especially in the water supply department) repeatedly fell short of covenanted levels.
However, in most recent years the situation improved.
Project outcome is rated as satisfactory and the sustainability of project benefits as
likely. The operation addressed institutional development only marginally, objectives were
achieved but the impact was modest. The PCR is satisfactory.
No audit is planned.
Attachmenta
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 2449-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...................................1
A .  P roject   Identity    ............................................................1
B. Background   .                  ..........................................................1l
C. Identification, Preparation  and  Appraisal ............................................................                               8
D. Project Implementation ...........................................................                                                     13
E. Project Results ...........................................................                                                            16
F. Project Sustainability ...........................................................                                                     16
G. Bank's Performance ...........................................................                                                         16
H. Borrower's Performance ...........................................................                                                     17
I. Performance  of Consultants ...........................................................                                                18
J. Performance  of Contractor and  Suppliers ...........................................................                                   19
K. Project Relationship ...........................................................                                                       19
L. Project Documentation  and  Data ...........................................................                                           19
M. Conclusions and  Lessons Learned ...........................................................                                           19
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...................... 21
A. Project Objectives .............................................................. 21
B. Project Implementation ...........................................................                                                     21
C. Implementation  Program  ...........................................................                                                   22
D. Financial Analysis ...........................................................                                                         22
E. Financial Performance ...........................................................                                                      23
F. Empresa de Energia (energy  service) tariff adjustments ............................................ 24
G. Analysis of the Internal Financial Rate of Return for the Rio Grande
Multipurpose Project II ...........................................................                                     .     26
H. Project Impact and  Sustainability ...........................................................                                         27
I. Bank  Performance ...........................................................                                                          27
J. EPM'S  Performance ...........................................................                                                         28
K. Institutional Aspects ...........................................................                                                      28
L. Lessons Learned ...........................................................                                                            29
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: RELATED STATISTICAL INFORMATION ............................................. 31
1 . Related Bank Loans .............................................                                                           31
2. Project Timetable .............................................                                                              3 1
3.  Loan Disbursements .............................................. 32
4.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds (in US$) ............................................. 33
5.  Project Implementation ............................................. 34
6. Project Costs and Financing .............................................                                                    35
7. Project Results .............................................                                                                35
8.  Use of Bank Resources ............................................. 36
9.  Status of Legal Covenants ............................................. 37



COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 2449-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rio Grande Multipurpose - Water
Supply and Hydroelectricity - Project in Colombia. The water supply component and its associated 21
MW Niquia Power Station were commissioned in 1993. The main 303 MW Tasajera Hydropower
Plant was commissioned in May 1994. Since its commissioning the Project has operated normally.
The Project was partially financed with Loan 2449-CO for US$ 164.5 million
(approved June 21, 1984). The Borrower is the Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM) a municipal
corporation of the city of Medellin. The closing date of the loan is June 30, 1994, about two and a half
years later than originally foreseen US$ 7,70 million of the loan proceeds were canceled as a result of
project cost savings. The balance of the loan proceeds have been disbursed. The last disbursement
was on June 30, 1994.
The draft of this report was discussed with the Borrower and its comments are set
forth in Part 1I of the PCR.
The Infrastructure Operations Division, Country Department III, prepared Parts I and
HI of the PCR based, among other sources, on the Issues/Decisions Paper, the Staff Appraisal Report,
the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, records of the World Bank and the Borrower, and interviews
with Borrower's staff in Medellin and at the project site.






- 11 -
COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 2449-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.           The loan for the Rio Grande Multipurpose Project was the seventh loan to EPM, the
thirteenth loan since 1970 to Colombia's Power Sector and the ninth to its Water and Sewerage Sector.
It helped finance a project consisting of: (i) a 4.5 cubic meters per second raw water supply scheme for
the City of Medellin; and (ii) a 324 MW hydroelectric power development scheme, on the Rio Grande
a tributary of the Porce River in Colombia's Antioquia Province.
Implementation Experience
ii.          The Project was estimated at appraisal to cost the equivalent of US$418.1 million,
including financial charges during construction. Final cost of the Project -- US$394.9 million -- was
about 6 percent below project cost estimated in the SAR. World Bank financing for the Project
amounted to US$164.5 million, the proceeds of which were fully disbursed, except for US$7.7 million
of savings which were canceled. EPM contribution from its own resources was US$157.7 million or
40 percent of the capital outlay in the Project. The balance was financed through suppliers' credits,
EXIMBANK of Japan, and FEN.
iii.         Albeit with almost four years delay, caused mainly by difficulties in obtaining import
licenses for the main powerhouse equipment and the lengthy and cumbersome contract processing
procedure to which EPM is subjected by Colombia's and Antioquia's contract legislation, the Rio
Grande Project was successfully commissioned in October 1993 for the water supply scheme and in
May 1994 for it power component. The delay in issuing the import licenses resulted in not having Rio
Grande electric energy production available during the stiff electric power rationing that affected
Colombia in 1992 and 1993. During that power curtailnent period, Rio Grande could have supplied
about 23 percent of the electric energy shortage. This caused a negative impact to the National
Economy of Colombia estimated at not less than US$700 million.
Project Results
iv.          In spite of the import licenses dispute, the Project successfully achieved the objectives
established at project appraisal. The recomputed rate of return -- 9 % -- although lower than the 18%



- 111 -
calculated at project appraisal, is still close to the opportunity cost of capital in Colombia, estimated at
10-12% per annum.
v.           EPM's performance during project implementation has been satisfactory, both
financially and operationally. In fact EPM stands probably as the best managed electric power utility in
Colombia's Power Sector. As in some of the other previous EPM's project financed by the Bank, the
Rio Grande Project has had a good project management and institutional impact, reinforcing the
organization and financial soundness of the water and power services provided by EPM, and enhancing
the technical, administrative and managerial skills of its personnel.
Sustainability
vi.          The main results of the Project -- that is the physical facilities implemented and the
institutional strengthening of EPM -- have provided, and will continue to provide, tangible direct
benefits to EPM and its customers, and also to Colombia at large. However, it should be pointed out
that the sustainability of these benefits depends greatly on maintaining an adequate level of tariffs in
order to avoid inefficient use of water and electricity. Another factor of uncertainty is the structural
and financial crisis affecting the Colombian Power Sector, although the Government is moving in the
right direction by proposing new legislation for a comprehensive reform of the Sector, it should be
recognized that approval of the required legislation and implementation of the proposed changes will
take time.
Lessons Learned
vii.         The following lessons stem from implementation of the Rio Grande Project:
(a)    Before agreeing in funding a project as complex as Rio Grande, the Bank
should satisfy itself that the project has been adequately prepared. Particularly,
it should insist that the project design should be reviewed by a panel of
independent specialists in the main technical disciplines involved as was done
for Rio Grande.
(b)    The Bank should insist as a condition of loan negotiations on a specific
guarantee that import licenses would not be required for all imports required by
the project under consideration, or that, as a condition of loan effectiveness, a
blanket import license be issued covering all such imports.
(c)    The Bank should always require that a Project Management Unit (PMU),
properly staffed, be set up to manage a project like Rio Grande, so as to ensure
its success. A case in point is the action taken by EPM to organize
opportunely the Rio Grande's PMU, to which is owed largely the success of
this Project.



- iv -
(d)   Last but not least, it is important to emphasize that a complex project will in
general face considerable problems during implementation; even in cases where
the implementing agency is a very efficient institution.






COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 2449-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name          Rio Grande Multipurpose Project
Loan Number           2449-CO
RVP Unit              Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Country
Department III
Country               Colombia
Sectors               Electric Power & Water Supply
Loan Amount           US$164.5 million
Amount Disbursed      US$156.8 million
Amount Canceled       US$7.7 million
Year of Approval      Fiscal Year 1984
Borrower              Empresas Puiblicas de Medellin
B.    Background
1.    Bank Lending to the Sector Since 1970, the Bank has supported the development of
Colombia's power sector with 13 loans for over US$1.9 billion', and that of the water supply
and sewerage sector with 9 loans for over US$500 million. The thirteenth Bank loan to the
power sector since 1970 (and ninth to the water supply and sewerage sector), Loan 2449-CO
1 The Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), the other multilateral source of foreign financing for the
power sector, contributed another similar amount in 22 loans.



- 2 -
(June 21, 1984; US$164.5 million) to Empresas Piblicas de Medellin (EPM), helped finance
the Rio Grande Multipurpose Project - electric power and water supply -, which is the subject
of this Project Completion Report#.
2.     Electric Power Sector Organization and Recent Developments Formulation of the
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution has been the responsibility
of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). Regarding investment priorities, it has shared
responsibilities with the National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
- DNP), the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Interconexi6n Electrica S.A. (ISA), a generating
and transmission utility, which owns and operates the National Interconnected Transmission
System, and of which the shareholders are the main Government-owned electric power
utilities3 and the two largest municipal utilities.4 ISA is in charge of defining the generation and
bulk transmission program; although lately this has taken the form of an indicative program
rather than a committed program. Alter approval by the National Economic and Social Policy
Council (CONPES), this indicative program becomes the tentative National Power Expansion
Program. Formerly ISA's task was skewed by the tendency of its shareholders to introduce
their project's preferences at an early stage in the planning process. This caused some
difficulties in the proper assessment of the cost to the economy of the shareholders' preferences
and in the transparent choice of the most advantageous solution. However, currently ISA has
largely been freed from these influences and the planning process appears to be generally
adequately balanced.
3.     Late in 1990 the oceanic phenomena known as "El Nifno" appeared in the Pacific
Ocean. The appearance of this phenomena generally gives way to major climatic disturbances
along the West Coast of South America and heralds periods of drought in Colombia. The
unusual intensity of this phenomenon, coupled with the non-optimal use of the water stored in
the hydro power plants' reservoirs' and thermal plants availability problems caused by
inadequate maintenance, became critical towards the end of 1991. Early in 1992, when the
2 Up to 1984 the Bank had made 6 loans, totaling US$345 million, to EPM for electric power generation (250-
CO in 1959, 282-CO in 1961, 369-CO in 1964, 874-CO in 1973, 1868-CO in 1980 and 1953-CO in 1981). In
1984 the Bank made another loan to EPM for US$164.5 million for the Rio Grande Multipurpose Project. In
addition, in 1980, it made a loan (Loan 1825-CO; US$ 44 million) to EPM for its telecommunication expansion
and improvement program.
3 Instituto Colombiano de Energia E1lctrica (ICEL), Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Valle del Cauca
(CVC), and Corporaci6n E1lctrica de la Costa AtlAntica (CORELCA).
Empresa de Energia Electiica de BogotA (EEEB) and Empresas NPblicas de Medellin (EPM).
5 The cost of power rationing used in running the interconnected system's power operation dispatch program
was taken at only Col$28 per kWh (about US$0.05/kWh) of unserved energy. Later on, when it became
apparent that the power system was on its way to very serious problems, it was raised to Col$300 per kWh
(US$0.50/kWh), a tenfold increase.



- 3 -
water stored at the power plants' reservoir hit a low of 17% of their composite capacity, it
became apparent the power rationing was required. Faced with a potential total
failure of the power system the Government imposed in early March 1992 drastic power
rationing of up to eight hours per day. The power rationing was to last 13 months until May
1993. Contributory to the power system failings was some optimistic overestimation of the
Colombian power system actual generating capability.6
4.     By 1992 the Colombian power sector had reached a critical stage with serious
operational, financial and managerial problems. The extensive power rationing early in the year
provided the juncture the Government needed to push forward measures aiming at
restructuring the power sector. Besides introducing to Congress a law7 setting forth this
restructuring, meanwhile, (failing Congressional approval by June 30, 1994, the Government is
empowered under the Constitution to issue the law by decree) the Government proceeded to
enact measurese that in fact started the restructuring process, including private sector
participation in electricity generation, transmission and distribution. Paradoxically, the dismal
financial situation of most of the power sector enterprises gave the Government the
opportunity to acquire full control of these organizations by swapping shares for debt. This
opened the way for the privatization of facilities nowadays fully controlled by the Government.
5.    In essence, the restructuring policy would separate in the power sector the functions of
generation, transmission and distribution. Concerning generation, the aim is to de-concentrate
ownership and operation of power plants in order to introduce an element of competition. This
implies mainly private ownership of generating facilities. Steps are being taken in this direction
by the sale of the 510 MW Betania Hydroelectric Power Plant and the Cartagena Thermal
Power Station, as well as the introduction of BOOM (Build, Own, Operate and Maintain)
schemes at Barranquilla (150 MW Gas-fired Combined Cycle Power Station) at Paipa (150
MW Coal-fired Fourth Stearn Power Unit) and at Cali (150 MW Gas-fired Combined Cycle
Power Station). In addition, project preparation is underway for two BOOM schemes; a 300
MW coal-fired steam power station in northern Colombia and a 150 MW gas-fired combined
cycle power station in central Colombia.
6.     Concerning transmission, it is foreseen that ISA would own and operate the 230 kV
and 500 kV trunk transrnission lines and main substations and, that it would shed itself of its
generating facilities, which would be privatized. All generating enterprises would have access
to the transmission network by paying a wheeling charge. Load dispatch would be undertaken
6 It is interesting to note that this position of the Colombian authorities -- of surplus capability in Colomnbia's
power system -- was shared by the Bank See on this subject the Report No. 8893 from the Operation Evaluation
Department "Colombia -- The Power Sector and The World Bank - 1970-1987", dated June 28, 1990.
7 Proyecto de Ley No. 1271/92 "....por el cual se establece el regimen para la generaci6n, interconexi6n,
transmisi6n y distribuci6n de electricidad en el territorio nacional", Agosto 27, 1992.
8 Decree 2119 (December 29, 1992). "Por el cual se reestructura el Ministerio de Minas y Energia."



- 4 -
by a separate organization that would absorb ISA's current load dispatch department.
Distribution would be re-organized around existing electric utilities, which would be privatized
gradually.
7.     The Tariff Commission (Junta Nacional de Tarifas - JNT) was dissolved in 1992, and
replaced by separate regulatory commissions for electric energy and gas, water supply and
sewerage, and telecommunications. The electric energy and gas regulatory commission
(Comisi6n de Regulaci6n Energetica - CRE) is in charge of setting up the tariffs for distribution
and for power wheeling.
8.     By 1992 the installed capacity in the power sector's generating facilities reached 9660
MW of which 7700 MW in hydroelectric power plants (80%) and 1960 MW in thermal power
stations (20%). As indicated in paragraph 203, the actually available capacity was much less,
due to the drought and to unavailability of a large part of the thermal units. In 1992, of 32,184
GWh generated by the power sector only 80% ended up as sales to consumers due to
transrnission and distribution losses. This high level of losses is well above what is experienced
in most Latin American countries.9
9.     Residential electricity sales represent close to 50% of total power sales. This relatively
high percentage is due basically to high use of electricity for cooking, encouraged by low
residential tariffs, particularly for low income customers.10 The Government is partially
tackling this problem by promoting the use of natural gas for cooking through extension of gas
lines into low income neighborhoods. In the future there is the intention of limiting or ending
cross-subsidies.
10.    Between 1970 and 1980 electric energy for the whole of the power sector grew rapidly
at an average of 10 percent per year. In the following ten-year period it grew at a much slower
rate of 5.7 percent per year on average. It is likely that this sharp slowdown in the growth of
electricity demand has been caused by the electric power rational that took place in the years
1980 and 1981, the 1980s' general slowdown in economic growth, and tariff increases
exceeding inflation, which might have forced a more rationed use of electric power in the
productive activities. The current growth in power demand is around 5 percent, which is
expected to extend till the end of the century. In 1980 electric supply reached 45 percent of the
Country's population, while by 1993 it attains 72% of the potential customers.
9 Considering 29 countries from Latin America and the Caribbean, only four (Haiti, Dominican Republic,
Honduras and Panama) exhibit higher level of power losses than Colombia. In Brazil and Mexico power losses
are around 13 percent, while in developed countries, they represent only something like 8 percent of total
generation.
10 Currently in Colombia, electricity tariffs for residential customers depend on six categories of relative
income level, defined by neighborhoods, in such a way that high-income areas cross-subsidize low-income
residential customers.



- 5 -
11.   By 1990 the financial situation of the power sector had reached a critical stage. As a
whole the sector obtained a net income from operations of just 4.9 percent over net fixed assets
in operation, and sustained a net loss of 4.3 percent over net worth. " In the same year, against
a debt service of US$1,870 million, internal cash generation attained just US$ 700 million
leaving a cash deficit of US$1,170 million. Since 1991, there has been a determined effort by
the Government to improve the financial situation of the sector's enterprises with the objective
of making them worthy subjects for privatization.
12.   Development of Water and Sewerage Sector12 The Bank Review of Water and
Sewerage Institutions, carried out in close collaboration with the Government (Yellow Cover
Review Meeting of February 1, 1993), concludes that the major issues affecting the generally
poor performance of water supply utilities in the Country has been institutional, because of
politicization and lack of accountability. This poor performance has been reflected in low
indicators of efficiency, quality of service and financial soundness of the utilities, and an
increase in unserved population despite relatively large investments over the last two decades.
Institutional flux at the national level has been accompanied by a general inability to implement
policies for effective sector development, although in a few cases (Medellin and Bucaramanga,
notably) services have improve markedly, and the problems have not been felt in as acute a
form, because of more arm's length relationship between local politicians and utility
management, conducive to greater autonomy and stability of the latter, professionalism, and
higher efficiency. Conscious of these short comings, the Government has developed a reform
program. A new approach to the Sector was evolved and is being supported under the
ongoing Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project financed by the Bank (Loan 296 1-CO, to
the municipal development intermediary, FINDETER), and is being given further impetus by
the establishment of a regulatory framework conducive to efficiency improvements, expanded
sector participation in the delivery of public services, greater accountability, and a more arms
length relationship between the utilities and local politicians. These reforms are embodied in
the Public Utilities law, which awaits Congressional approval (failing Congressional approval
by June 30, 1994, the Government is empowered under the Constitution to issue the law by
decree), and will be given more operational shape by the newly established regulatory
commission for water supply and sewerage (Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua Potable y
Saneamiento), which reports to the Presidency of the Republic, and a new Vice Ministry of
Development responsible for formulating sector policies and coordinating their implementation
by sub-national agencies under a decentralized framework. A new Superintendency of Public
Services (Superintendencia de Servicios Publicos), also reporting to the Presidency, is charged
under the 1991 Constitution Chart with intervening in poorly managed utilities, and with
applying sanctions, in order to ensure provision of basic public services on an efficient and
equitable basis. These agencies are still at an early stage of evolution and their future
1 Exposicion de Motivos, Proyecto de Ley Electrica, Ministerio de Minas y Energia, August 1992.
12 This paragmph is taken largely from the Executive Project Summary for the proposed Santafe (Bogota)
Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation and Private Sector Development Project.



- 6 -
effectiveness will reflect consolidation of implementation capacity and the Government political
will to support their actions.
13.   In contrast with environment surrounding previous attempts at sector reform, there is
nowadays greater emphasis on the part of the authorities on accountability (relying on
expanded private sector involvement and strengthening of consumer voice through consumer
representation on local commissions). Major environmental problems in river basin
degradation and need for waste-water treatment can only be addressed if the institutional
reforms take hold. Although it is recognized that it could take quite some years for the reforms
to take hold, and given the difficulties of designing a comprehensive and detailed action-plan
which could take fully into account the considerable regional and local variety in institutional
capacity and culture for change, specific solutions need to be developed on a case-by-case basis
within the global framework.
14.   The unsatisfactory achievement of the sector in recent years can be seen by the
following figures, which show the slow improvement in service coverage rates and their
current low level, despite relatively high investments in the sector, which proved insufficient to
offset the high rate of growth of population with the resulting increase in total population
lacking the basic services of water and sewerage, while the sector's performance leaves much
to be desired.
Service Coverage Rates (%)
Urban                    Rural                   Total
Year     Water    Sewerage    Water          Sewerage      Water      Sewerage
1970       77          64           18          8            51          39
1985       82          71           12          2            58          47
1992       87          72          24           8            66          51
Unserved Population
(Million Inhabitants)
_____ _  1970        1978           1985           1990
Total Country             21             26              30             34
Population without         10             10             11             12
water connection
Population without        13              15             16             17
connection to
sewerage    _                 .                                .



- 7 -
15.   Role of the Bank in the Power Sector In broad terms the role of the Bank in
supporting Colombia's power sector went through three phases during the past two decades.
In the 1970s, the emphasis was on interconnection and on ISA's role, for which it was
envisaged a virtual monopoly of building and operating all major generating capacity additions
to the interconnected system. In the 1980s, the Bank's emphasis shifted to distribution and
village electrification and to issues associated with individual utilities, with sector issues being
dealt with in a somewhat indirect manner. Only lately, towards the end of the 1980, the critical
condition of the power sector was recognized and the stage was set with a Power Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 2889-CO; approved 12/87) for a new phase in the Bank's role,
focusing on broad sectoral issues (a thorough analysis of the Bank's role in the Colombian
power sector can be found in the OED's report No. 8893 entitle "Colombia - The Power
Sector and the World Bank, 1970-1987", June 28, 1990).
16.   Role of the Bank in the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector'3 Given the immense
investment requirements of the water supply and sewerage sector and the Government's
increased emphasis on improving service coverage in its quest for alleviating poverty, the Bank
planned in the context of the Water and Sewerage Sector Project (Loan 2961-CO; approved in
1988), to continue its role as primary external supplier of finance for sector investments.
However, continued lending for the sector was made contingent on the Govemment's
commitment to sectoral institutional and policy reforms which would allow more efficient and
sustainable sector growth within the context and constraints of overall macro-economic
development and public sector investment. Thus, a Sector Reform Program (SRP), designed
with the assistance of the Bank is geared to bring about the reforms required to address the
sector's many problems and constraints and is supported by the Bank through the provision of
financing for sector investment and continued advice. The sector investment loan, covering
extemal resources needs of all sector segments, was thought to be the most appropriate tool
for assisting the Govemment in improving and expanding service and in implementing the
reforms being introduced under the SRP. The sector approach was to be continued in the
future as a mean of Bank support to sustain and deepen the adjustment process then being
undertaken by the Govemment. To complement the sector loan approach, the Bank was also
to continue the provision of finance for major investment projects for the Country's largest
municipal utilities (Bogota, Cali, Medellin) through separate operations.
17.   EPM's Service Area, Facilities and Market EPM's service area comprises
essentially the metropolitan area of Medellhn (population: 2.5 million). The Medellin area is the
second largest nucleus of industrial and commercial activity in Colombia. Most of the electric
power supply to the provinces of Antioquia and Choc6 is provided by EPM through block
sales to distribution utilities (Empresa Antioquefia de Energia and Electrificadora del Choc6).
EPM also supplies electric power to the interconnected system by way of ISA. EPM is an
autonomous corporation of the Municipality of Medellin, organized in 1955. It presently
13 This paragraph in taken largely from the White Cover Review of Water and Sewerage Sector Institutions -
Colombia - June 1992.



-8 -
provides electricity, telephone and water and sewerage services. These three wings of EPM
are operated as financially independent departments with separate accounts. EPMws installed
electric power generating capacity at the time of the Rio Grande Project initiation was 979
MW. Additionally by investing in ISA plants (Chivor, San Carlos, Jaguas) EPM had obtained
rights to a portion of their generating capabilities and capacities (1983: 480 GWh and 80 MW).
Peak demand in 1983 in EPM's system was 972 MW; in 1988 it reached 1,226 MW, while in
the SAR peak demand was forecast to reach in that year 1,342 MW (by 1993 it has reached
1357 MW). Energy demand was forecast at appraisal to grow at an average 7.3 percent per
year. In fact it grew up more slowly at an average of only 5.8 percent per year reaching 6,698
GWh in 1988. By 1993 energy demand had only reached 7,167 GWh., at an annual average
rate of growth in the past five years ofjust over 4.0 percent per year. With the addition of
Playas (200 MW) and Rio Grande (324 MW), EPM's power system reached a generating
capacity of 1,500 MW by May 1994.
18.   The metropolitan area of Medellin takes its water from a variety of sources, a number
of which are small rivers and streams or within the urbanized area. By 1993 the water supply
sources had 9.5 cumecs capacity. However, certain local sources have been taken out of
service because of high levels of contamination and encroaching. Moreover, the reliable
combined capacity of the remaining sources for a 97.5 percent reliability is considered to be 7.5
cumecs; to which should be added the initial capacity of the Rio Grande source, of 5 cumecs,
giving a total 12.5 cumecs raw water capability. Between 1976 and 1983 water demand
increased at the rate of 2.4 percent per year reaching 226 million cubic meter (including
unaccounted-for) or 7.2 cumecs. At the time the Rio Grande Project was under consideration
it was forecast that water demand would grow at the rate of 6 percent reaching 360 million
cubic meter by 1991 (Production required: 11.4 cumecs); in fact water demand grew much
more slowly reaching only 283 million cubic meters, with a rate of growth of 2.8 percent per
year.
C.    Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
19.   Background The Rio Grande is a river that traverses the high plateau of Northern
Antioquia and empties itself into the Porce River after a precipitous descend of some thousand
meters. Development for hydropower of the hydraulic head available between the upper
reaches of the river and its confluence with the Porce, had been studied since 1940 and various
schemes were proposed. However, in 1971 a study recommended tapping the Rio Grande for
augmenting the water supply of the City of Medellin. 14 Subsequently, EPM employed the
Colombian engineering firm INTEGRAL to study the feasibility of a multipurpose (water
supply and power) development of the river. A report on this subject was submitted to EPM in
April 1982 and conmmunicated to the Bank in September 1982 which confirmed the technical
and economic viability of such multipurpose development. Nevertheless, the Bank hired in
14 "Aprovechaniiento Mfdtiple del Rio Grande" EPM 1979.



- 9 -
December 1982 a geologist who after a visit to the project site and analysis of available
documentation concluded that, geologicaUly, the proposed project would not present undue
problems.
20.   Issues and Decisions Appraisal of the Rio Grande Project was carried out in October-
November 1983. Prior to appraisal two major issues were raised concerning justification of the
Project's power component and of Bank's participation in the Project. These issues were
resolved in the following manner: Additional raw water supply was expected to be needed by
1988 to meet Medellin's potable water requirements. The use of the Rio Grande waters was
determined to be the only feasible solution, and that it would be economically justified to
complete the water component of the Project by 1988, irrespective of whether or not the
power component was required. However, the national least-cost power expansion program
indicated that the power component of Rio Grande would not be needed until 1991, by which
time the Project should be fully completed. On this basis the cost of the power facilities was
about US$600 per installed kW (March 1982 prices), i.e. by far the lowest cost power plant in
the future system. It was considered that the power component of the Project would assist
EPM in meeting incremental power requirements in the Department of Antioquia. In addition,
it was to make available to the National Interconnected System any excess energy, which was
particularly needed in the light of already expected delays in completing larger plants elsewhere
in the system as well as the provision of hydro-based energy to the North Atlantic Coast to
decrease costly thermal generation. It was thought moreover, that this project component
would also further the Bank-supported objectives at the time in the power sector by sustaining
the excellent working relationship with EPM, one of the two largest, and the most efficient and
well-managed regional power utility (with commensurate influence in the Sector). This was
particularly relevant in view of the unusual complexity of the power sector and its entrenched
history of responsiveness to regional political concerns. These interests had regularly
threatened to undermine the incipient alliance of the regional power utilities to create an
integrated national power network, and an integrated set of sector entities and national policies
which would permit rational and soundly-financed growth. The Government has had to rely
upon the Bank as the only existing non-political force that could insist upon objective measures
in the national interest. Bank strategy, therefore, was to fulfill this function while fostering the
development of Colombia's capacity to take it over gradually. Indeed, Bank lending for the
Project was proposed by Government and EPM, in recognition of the Bank's ongoing
contribution to the strengthening of EPMs power division. Furthermore, EPM had been
particularly interested in having the Bank involved in its water division to provide support for
needed tariff increases, an area that had probably been neglected to some extent in the past.
21.   Finally, it was considered that the Latin American debt crisis at that time would make
probably not possible for EPM to obtain the necessary external financing without assistance
from the Bank. Indeed it was thought that unless the Bank had a significant financial presence
in the Sector and obtain tariffs and institutional commitments similar to those that had been
worked out in the more recent operations, it would be unrealistic to expect the Sector as a
whole to obtain external funding from private sources on the required scale even if the



- 10 -
international capital market prospects was to recover its previous, favorable levels."5 Through
a proposed cofinancing scheme, the Bank would seek to build upon efforts initiated under a
proposed Power Development Finance Project to draw commercial lenders back to the Power
Sector, and to the more viable water supply utilities.
22.   Project Objectives The Project originated as a water supply project, to which at very
low cost a power component could be added. For this reason, the primary objective of the
Project was to provide the additional raw water supply required by 1988 as a necessary input
for the production of potable water. The main objective (but secondary in the framework of
the whole project) of the power component, although small in comparison to the power
capacities being installed at the time in the Country, was to assist alleviating the consequences
of the delays (due to financial, technical and organization causes) in large hydroplants
completion elsewhere in the National Interconnected System.
23.   Project Description The Project (Phase I of the Rio Grande Schemes) consists of:
(i)    The Tasajera Hydroplant facilities comprising an earthen catchment
dam 65 meters high, impounding a reservoir with a useful volume of
110 million cubic meters, an intake tower with a 7.2 km long power
tunnel, a surge shaft, a 334 meters deep pressure shaft and a 600
meters penstock in an inclined gallery leading into a two-cavern
powerhouse with three 101 MW turbine-generator units, that would
produce an average of 1600 GWh per year, and two-km long tailrace
tunnel;
(ii)    The Niquia water and power facilities, which includes an intake shared
with the power intake, a 15.9 km long tunnel, a surge shaft, a 160
meters deep pressure shaft and a steel lined 300 meters long gallery
leading into an above ground powerhouse with a 22 MW turbine-
generator unit, that would produce initially about 105 GWh per year at
raw water throughput of 4.5 cubic meters per second and some 165
GWh per year at a maximum water use of 6.4 cubic meters per second,
a 5.5 km long steel conduit (inverted siphon) conducts the raw water
from the powerhouse to a treatment plant constructed separately from
the Project, and;
(iii)    Transmission facilities consisting of a surface substation at Tasajera
with 230 kV transmission line to Barbosa Substation, and a surface
substation at Niquia and a transmission line to Bello.
24.   Project Components The following project components were foreseen in the SAR
and established in the Loan Agreement:
15 "Estudio de Factibilidad del Aprovechamiento Muluple del Rio Grande" INTEGRAL, April, 1982.



- 11 -
(i)    Tasajera Hydroelectric Station Construction and equipping of the
Tasajera hydroelectric facilities, including roads and bridges; river
diversion works; dam and spillway; intake tower; underground works
for power including pressure tunnel, surge tank, penstock tunnel and
penstock, ancillary tunnels, caverns, tailrace tunnel and tailrace canal; a
substation, ancillary works and general accessory services.
(ii)    Raw Water Supply Facilities Construction and equipping of the
Niquia raw water supply facilities, including roads and bridges; intake
tower; underground works including pressure tunnel and penstock
tunnel; pressure reducing facilities; raw water tank; conduit to
treatment plant; a substation; ancillary works and general accessory
services.
(iii)    Niquia Hydroelectric Station Construction and equipping of the
Niquia hydroelectric station, comprising the power station building and
related structures and works; a substation; ancillary works and general
accessory services.
(iv)    Transmission Facilities Construction and equipping of the 220-kv
transmission line between the Tasajera and the existing Barbosa
substation and of the 44-kv transmission line between the Niquia
substation and the existing Bello substation, including the necessary
changes in and additions to the existing substations, ancillary works and
general accessory services.
(v)    Training A program for the training of the Borrower's staff.
(vi)    Data Processing Network Acquisition, erection and utilization of
equipment for the second phase of a computerized data processing
network among the Borrower's various offices.
25.   Status of Project Design At appraisal the project studies had progressed to the stage
of bid designs. Final designs for construction were foreseen to be completed by end of 1984.
Field investigations had been completed at the time of appraisal and these were comprehensive
and permitted the location of all underground works in sound and competent rock.
26.   Project Cost Estimate, Funding and Implementation Schedule
The Project's cost was estimated at appraisal at the equivalent of US$32 1.1 million in mid- 1984
prices including physical contingencies of US$37.2 million (13% over base-line cost of
US$783.9 million). Adding price escalation estimated at US$40.9 million (13%), and interest
during construction amounting to US$56.1 million the project fanding requirements reached



- 12 -
US$418.1 million. The total foreign cost was estimated at US$252.9 million (62%) while local
cost was figured up at the equivalent of US$165.2 million (38%).
27.   Financing of the project cost, including interest during construction, was foreseen as
follows:
Sources of Funds              1US$ million                 %
IBRD Loan                                 164.5                    39.2
Cofinancing B-Loan                         65.5                    15.7
Suppliers (turbines, generators)           22.9                    5.5
FONADE and Government                      13.6                     3.3
EPM                                       151.6                    36.3
Total Project Funding                     418.1                   100.0
28.   The Bank loan was geared to cover foreign cost of contracts for civil works and some
of the electrical equipment. Suppliers credit were to be sought for the turbines and generators.
29.   With respect to possible procurement and other problems posed by the provisions of
the State Contracting Act (Decree No. 222 of February 1983) the Legal Department of the
Bank advised that Bank loans in Colombia are not subject to said legislation, and that this was
confirmed by a legal opinion, dated December 6, 1983, furnished to the Bank on behalf of the
Republic of Colombia as guarantor for Loan No. 2303-CO (Agricultural Research and
Extension Project), signed September 19, 1983. All this is an interesting commentary on the
vagueries of legal opinions, since as will be seen further along in this report, the project was
seriously affected by procurement problems stemming from different interpretations of the
above legal opinion.
30.   It was foreseen at appraisal time that project implementation would require 82 months
(six years and ten months) from the time of issuance of the bid documents for the intake and
main tunnel (August 1983). The project was therefore expected to be completed in mid-1990.
Overall the implementation schedule was rather optimistic. It is interesting to note that in
judging the risk of not meeting the targets for project commissioning of the Niquia hydropower
station and raw water supply (end-1988) and of the Tasajera hydropower plant (mid-1990), the
SAR did not expected any problems with the underground works since these would be located
in the well known Antioquian Batholith (similar to Guatape, San Carlos, Jaguas, Guadalupe IV
and Playas hydropower project). In view of the difficulties experienced in Playas, this optimism
seems rather farfetched. Curiously, the SAR stated that the procurement schedule was
reasonable and that no unusual delays were expected, while procurement problems were to be
the main source of delays in completing the Project.



- 13 -
31.   Environmental and Resettlement Issues Environmental impact was deemed to
originate principally from the reservoir, the tailrace facilities, the surface Niquia power station
and raw water tank, the conduit to the water treatment plant and the substations and
transmission lines. The area thus affected was estimated at 5,700 ha, of which 1,100 ha
pertained to the reservoir. The area was marginally suitable for agriculture and had been
largely owned by absentee landlords. At appraisal time EPM had already acquired 90% of this
land. About 100 persons affected by the project's works had already been moved.
32.   EPM had a comprehensive program for creating recreation areas within a new forested
area that would cover most of the affected land. The reforestation work was to be initiated in
1985 under an annual budgetary allocation, arising from the legal requirement that 2% of the
revenue (computed at the block tariff rates) originating in hydropower facilities had to be
allocated to measures to protect the river banks devastating the environment by flushing earth
for finding gold. This was the largest source of silt in the river. It was therefore thought that
construction of the Rio Grande Project would balance in favor of the environment due to: (a)
the large area to be reforested; (b) the long-term effects on the river basin of EPM's planning
for improvement; and (c) the fact that an average of 40 cubic meters per second was to be
diverted towards the heavily polluted Medellin River, to double its flow and dilute the sewage
pollution. Downstream uses of water supply for humans and animals were taken from streams
flowing into the Rio Grande and therefore were not to be affected by the Project.
33.   Project Loan Documents In May 1984, representatives of the Bank, the
Government, and EPM completed negotiations for the Rio Grande Project. On June 21, 1984
the Executive Directors approved Loan 2449-CO for US$164.5 million to help finance the
Project. The Rio Grande Project Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement were signed
3 months later on September 21, 1984. The agreements reached during negotiations, which
were incorporated in the Loan Agreement, superseded in large measure those incorporated in
the Playas Hydropower Project Loan Agreement (Loan 1953-CO, US$85 million). In Part III
of this report are listed the pertinent covenants with their status of compliance. The Rio
Grande Loan was to be repaid in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate
D.    Project Implementation
34.   Effectiveness and Closing Date Loan signing was only delayed 3 months. Date of
Loan effectiveness was December 20, 1984. By itself, this delayed effectiveness did not
adversely affect commencement of the procurement process for the Project, since bid
documents for the major civil works contracts were already available. The Loan's original
closing date was December 31, 1991. This date was extended three times during project
implementation. The final closing date was June 30, 1994.
35.   Procurement Although the procurement process for contracts involving funding by
the Bank went up generally with few problems, procurement for the major equipment iterns
was fraught with setbacks caused by difficulties with the import licenses issuance by the Import



- 14 -
Licensing Authority (INCOMEX). The delays in issuing the import licenses were such that
they were the main cause for not having available the Project's electric energy production
during the stiff power rationing in Colombia in 1992 and 1993. Between March 1992 and
April 1993 it was estimated that the power shortage nationally was 6,200 GWh and that Rio
Grande could have produced, if available, 1,422 GWh or 23% of the total power shortage. In
terms of average bulk energy pricing the lack of Rio Grande energy production represented
foregone revenues of the equivalent of US$70 million (at US$0.05 per kWh) for EPM. The
non-availability of Rio Grande caused a negative impact to the National Economy of Colombia
that can be estimated at US$700 million (at US$0.50 per non-delivered kWh).
36.   Arrangements for Construction and Procurement Construction of the Project was
organized into five main civil works contracts for:
(a)   intake, river diversion tunnel and power tunnel to Tasajera,
(b)   dam and spillway;
(c)    Tasajera and Niquia powerhouse;
(d)   steel linings;
(e)   Niquia-Manantiales siphon; and
(f)   control building and Tasajera substation. Main supply contracts covered:
powerhouse equipment, step up transformers, 230 kV cables, and substation.
In addition a number of smaller contracts were awarded for various civil works
and equipment supplies and erection of transmission lines.
37.   Project Management and Engineering The Project's implementation was managed
by a Project Management Unit (PMU), which carried out efficiently all aspects of project
management, including the difficult task of dealing with the Government's bureaucracy in the
matter of import licenses for the main powerhouse equipment.
38.   All construction design work was performed by INTEGRAL, which had been in
charge of preparing the bid-level designs for the Project. During construction of the
multipurpose scheme these consultants also produced the designs for the modifications that the
project required. Construction supervision was also entrusted to INTEGRAL. Additionally,
INTEGRAL at completion of the Project prepared the as-built drawings and a detailed report
on the Project's implementation.



- 15 -
39.   Throughout the Project's construction the PMU was assisted by a Board of
Consultants (BOC) made up of internationally-known experts" in the main technical disciplines
required by the Project. This assistance was conducted by means of 8 visits to the Project site
between 1987 and 1992. The BOC prepared in each case an analytical report covering each
portion of the works examined and their recommendations on the more important design and
construction aspects of the Project.
40.   Project Implementation Timetable, Cost and Funding Overall implementation of
the Rio Grande Project took 10 years and nine months (129 months) from August 1983 to
May 1994, compared to six years and ten months (82 months) expected in the SAR to be
required. Therefore, carrying out the Project took about 4 years more than anticipated at
appraisal. The basic reason for the considerable time overrun was the lengthy dispute with
INCOMEX on the import license for the main powerhouse equipment. In addition, there was
the lengthy and cumbersome contract processing procedures to which EPM is subjected by
Colombia's and Antioquia's contracting legislation. Whichever were the problems that arose
during project implementation, it is quite clear that the implementation timetable estimated at
appraisal was somewhat optimistic. The project objectives were accomplished and
exceeded compared to the estimates contained in the SAR. In terms of the physical scope
of the project, particularly where the energy subproject was concerned, the transmission
and substation subcomponents were augmented significantly by the inclusion of the
western substation and the control equipment not included in the original scope of the
project. Due to the delays in project implementation, the closing date of the project was
extended three times, for a total of three years.
41.   The final cost of the Project was the equivalent of US$394.9 million, including
US$56.10 million in financial charges, compared to US$418.1 million estimated at appraisal, or
an underrun of US$23.2 million. In Part III of this report is shown a summary comparison of
the original project cost estimate as per the SAR with the actual project expenditures in the Rio
Grande Project.
42.   Due to the savings achieved in project cost funding for the Project changed
significantly during project implementation with the net result that EPM canceled US$7.70
million from the Bank loan. In Part III of this report appears a tabulation of sources of funds
for the Project, as foreseen in the SAR and as actually made available.
1 6 Mr. Chun Y. Li (USA), expert in design and construction of earth dams, who has advised EPM on several of
its projects; Mr. Alfred J. Hendron Jr. (USA) expert in rock mechanics and underground works; Mr. Gabriel G.
Fernandez (USA) expert in soil mechanics and earth dams; and Mr. Cistian Kilian De Fries (Netherlands)
expert in instrunentation for dams.



- 16 -
E.    Project Results
43.   The Project achieved its main objective, which was to increase the raw water supply to
meet the demand for potable water in the metropolitan area of Medellin. It also achieved,
although belatedly, its secondary objective, which was to meet incremental electric energy
demand in the Medellin area and in the provinces of Antioquia and Choc6. It is unfortunate
that the delays in completing the Project did not permitted to count with its power output when
the Country was in the grip of the worst power shortage ever experienced.
44.   The recomputed internal economic rate of return using the SAR's methodology is nine
percent, compared to 18 percent in the SAR. The IERR was computed, as done in the SAR,
for the entire EPM's water supply and power expansion programs up to 1994, which includes
the Rio Grande Project. Revenues from water and power sales were taken as proxy for
benefits. The calculation of operating expenses and revenues was extended for 40 years,
reflecting thus, the probable useful life of the investments. Because of unquantified consumers'
surplus and economic and social benefits, use of revenues as proxy for benefits substantially
understates the benefits.
F.    Project Sustainability
45.   The major benefit realized from the Rio Grande Project is the badly needed additional
raw water supply to meet potable water demand in the Medellin metropolitan area. The
secondary benefit was of augmenting the power supply to EPM's power market and to
Colombia's National Interconnected System. The added power supply came unfortunately too
late to have helped in assuaging the power rationing during 1992-1993. Nevertheless, both the
added water and power supply at least are helping to maintain the standard of living of the
urban population in the second largest metropolitan area in Colombia and in Antioquia's rural
areas, as well as the industrial base of Medellin. These benefits will endure for all the useful life
of the Project.
46.   The revenues accrued to EPM from sale of potable water and electricity originated in
Rio Grande are another benefit to be credited to the Project. These benefits, of course, depend
on maintaining adequate level and structure of tariffs during the life of the Project. Given
EPM:s excellent track record in this area it is likely that the benefits will be maintained without
undue difficulties.
G.    Bank's Performance
47.   Bank participation in the Project was in general satisfactory. It is worth mentioning
that the excellent track record of EPM in dealing with projects financed by the Bank
contributed to the decision to support the Project. The Staff Appraisal Report provided
suitable information for project supervision.



- 17 -
48.   During the period of project implementation security problems arose in Colombia in
general and in Medellin in particular. These problems affected the level of project supervision.
Nevertheless Bank role in the Project was facilitated by EPM's management and technical
personnel. The Project Management Unit (PMU) was always supportive and gave full
cooperation to the Bank's teams during project preparation and supervision. The Bank played
a constructive role in assisting EPM to carry out the Project to its completion.
H.   Borrower's Performance
49.   At project's appraisal EPM had fully prepared the Project which facilitated the task of
the Bank. Learning from the experience with the Playas Project, EPM organized opportunely
the PMU for the Rio Grande Project. It is a credit to PMUs personnel to have shepherded the
Project through all the complex construction activities, without running into cost overruns and
to have handled the dispute with INCOMEX in a judicious manner.
50.   During project implementation and up to 1993 the financial performance of EPM's
power department has been generally satisfactory. This is reflected in the following financial
indices:
Year      1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Return of Net   8.8  11.3  11.1  13.8   9.3   7.2   7.9  10.0  13.0   9.0
Fixed Assets                                          _
Self-Financing  25.0  30.0  22.0  40.0  47.0  N. A.  N.A.  37.0  79.0  84.0
Ratio
Debt Service   1.2   1.3   1.2   1.5   1.1   0.9   1.0   1.3   2.0   2.0
Coverage                         IlI_I
Debt/Debt &   35.0  48.0  55.0  56.0  47.0  52.0  44.0  39.0  30.0  24.0
Equity Ratio                                                                    l
Operating     59.0  52.0  56.0  50.0  56.0  62.0  68.0  64.0  66.0  69.0
Ratio              IlI_I
Current Ratio    1.7   2.1    1.4   2.2   1.6   1.1   0.2   0.5   0.7   0.9
Account       80.0  37.0  33.0  32.0  25.0  21.0  21.0  24.0  22.0  23.0
Receivable
(days)
The evident progress in reducing the accounts receivable is noticeable.
51.   Concerning operation performance, EPM's power department has also been
satisfactory, except for energy losses which are still relatively high given the compact nature of
EPM's power market. The following indices reflect EPMs operational performance:



- 18 -
Year       1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Energy Losses   22    23    21    15    19    19  N.A.    19    17    21
Customers per  158   155    162   165   176   175   169   174   179   194
Employee      __
GWh sold per  1.90   1.82   1.91   2.00  2. 10   207  2. 01   1.86   1.66   1.87
Employeeyee I_I 
52.   The financial performance of EPM's water department in the last few years has also
been generally satisfactory, although not as good as that of the Power Department, as shown in
the following indices:
Year              1989       1990        1991       1992        1993
Retum of Net Fixed Assets    2.1        2.7         3.9        5.3        4.5
Self-Financing Ratio        10.0        8.0       39.0        70.0       56.0
Debt Service Coverage        1.2        2.2         2.8        4.0        3.3
Debt/Debt & Equity Ratio    52.0       60.0       54.0        47.0       43.0
Operating Ratio             82.0       89.0       80.0        69.0       72.0
Current Ratio                0.4        1.3         1.4        2.1         1.6
Account Receivable          37.0       36.0       35.0        34.0       31.0
53.   EPMs water department also shows a satisfactory operating performance as reflected
in the following indices:
Year              1989        1990       1991       1992       1993
Water Losses (%)              42         38         37         38          35
Customers per Employee       272        283        278        263        282
Water Sales per Employee     129        124        114         108        109
(1000 cum)                ____
I.    Performance of Consultants
54.   The performance of INTEGRAL the design consultants for the Rio Grande Project
was wholly satisfactory. Likewise, INTEGRAL performed creditably as construction
supervision consultant during project implementation.



- 19-
J.    Performance of Contractor and Suppliers
55.   The main civil works contractors performed their tasks in a satisfactory manner. As to
the suppliers, all the firms performed satisfactorily, except for the supplier of the steel pipe for
the Niquia siphon, ROMENERGO (Rumania), which contract had to be canceled for non-
fulfillment of delivery according to time-table. This forced EPM to re-bid the contract, which
was awarded and performed by the Argentinean firm IMPSA.
K.    Project Relationship
56.   From the Borrower the Bank received very close cooperation during appraisal. This
cooperative attitude established early in the project cycle and all through EPM's relations with
the Bank, made possible to resolve successfully the many issues that normally occur during
implementation of a project as complex as Rio Grande.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
57.   The SAR was generally a comprehensive document, that provided a useful framework
for the Bank and for EPM during project implementation and for the preparation of this PCR.
Supervision reports gave generally reasonably good indications of the project status at any time
and of any major incident during project implementation. These reports together with the
review of the project files at Bank headquarters and at EPM's offices in Medellin provided the
basic information for judging the project's results.
M.   Conclusions and Lessons Learned
58.   Conclusion The Rio Grande Project was a well prepared project that ran into
difficulties created by the import licensing authorities. Although it was finally complete below
cost estimate, the dispute concerning import licenses for the main powerhouse equipment was
the main cause of the almost four year delay in completing the Project. In retrospect, the Bank
failed to require adequate guarantees that all imports for the Project would not be subject to
prior import licenses. The delay in completing the power component of the Project was
particularly vexing since its power output was not available during the prolonged power
rationing that hit Colombia in 1992-1993. The loss to the economy from unserved energy that
could have been provided by Rio Grande can be gauged at not less than US$700 million.
59.   The Project was successful in achieving its main goal of adding raw water supply
capacity to EPM's water supply systems, more or less at the time it was needed. It also was
successful in adding generating capacity to EPM's power system, albeit with a long delay.
60.   Lessons Learned The principal lessons learned from implementation of the Rio
Grande Project can be summarized as follows:



- 20 -
(a)    Project Preparation Before undertaking appraisal of a project as complex as
Rio Grande, the Bank should satisfy itself that the project has been adequately
prepared. The project design should be reviewed by a panel of experts made
up of independent specialists in the main technical disciplines involved, before
bid documents are issued.
(b)   Import Licenses The Bank should carefiully examine the existing limitations
and constraints in country legislations, regulations or bureaucratic procedures
which could jeopardize project implementation. One case in point for this
project was the requirement of import licenses which contributed to a great
extent to the delay in project completion.
(c)    An important lesson is that the success of a project depends more than any
other factor on the ability and the experience of the people and the institution
involved in its implementation. A case in point is EPM was, and still is perhaps
the best managed water and power utility in Colombia, despite the rather poor
performance of these sectors in general.
(d)    Last but not least, it is important to emphasize that a complex project will in
general face considerable problems during implementation; even in cases where
the implementing agency is a very efficient institution.



- 21 -
COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 2449-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Objectives
1.    The Rio Grande Project II had two basic objectives: to supply the Aburri Valley
with potable water through the year 2020 and to generate a reliable annual supply of
electric energy of 1,578 GWh (1,578 million kilowatts per hour), equivalent to 21.2% of
EPM'S energy demand and to 4.1% of national demand.
2.    The project objectives were accomplished and exceeded compared to the estimates
contained in the SAR. In terms of the physical scope of the project, particularly where the
energy subproject was concerned, the transmission and substation subcomponents were
augmented significantly by the inclusion of the western substation and the control
equipment not included in the original scope of the project.
B.    Project Implementation
3.    Signature and Effectiveness of the Loan
4.    In terms of steps taken prior to signing loan agreement with the Bank, EPM began
negotiating with the Colombian Government in October 1982 and obtained authorizations
from CONPES and the National Department of Planning in August 1983. Approval of
effectiveness of the loan was obtained from the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit in
August 1984.
5.    While negotiations and formalities were under way for the loan, EPM obtained
partial financing from IDB for the second phase of the water supply and sewerage service
subproject (Manantiales water treatment plant and water distribution lines and sewers).
External loans were also planned to finance the turbines and generators for the Niquia and
Tasajera power plants, along with partial financing from FEN, FONADE, FEN-
EXIMBANK and the National Government for the local counterpart funds.



- 22 -
C.    Implementation Program
6.    The original implementation schedule contained in the loan application submitted
to the Bank established, in general terms, that the project-related activities would start in
January 1984 and would end in December 1991. The works included in the potable water
subproject came into operation in November 1991 instead of December 1989, as originally
scheduled, and it is estimated that the works included in the energy subproject will come
into operation in May 1994, in the case of the third generating unit, instead of December
1991, as originally scheduled. These slippages are explained below in conjunction with
the main problems encountered in the implementation of some contracts.
7.    In the case of the potable water subproject, the contract originally awarded to the
Rumanian firm of Romenergo for the design, manufacture and supply of the conveyance
pipe between the Niquia hydropower station and the Manantiales water treatment plant
was voided in February 1988 for non-performance of delivery according to timetable.
This resulted in a delay of approximately 1.5 years in the original implementation schedule,
because of the need to start a new international bidding process.
8.    In the case of the energy subproject, EPM experienced difficulties with
INCOMEX in obtaining approval of the import licenses for the procurement of the
turbines and generators and this caused a delay in project start-up of approximately 2.5
years and also resulted in the company losing an extension of the financing offered by the
lending agencies, which led to delays in the contracting process and to cost increases.
9.    Moreover, the contract for the procurement of transformers for the western
substation and the contract for control, protection and communications equipment
originally awarded to Rade Koncar, were voided and canceled, respectively, for non-
performance of delivery according to timetable, in the case of the first, and for inability to
deliver, in the case of the second.
D.    Financial Analysis
10.   Costs The actual cost of the Rio Grande Multipurpose Project II was
US$394.9 million, with actual investments, as at December 31, 1993 and based on 1994
estimates, resulting in a total reduction in US dollar cost of 6% compared to the SAR
(US$418.1 million).
11.   Although total project cost is lower than the original budget, there were some
marked differences in certain project components, such as the potable water subproject, in
particular, with a direct cost of US$74.5 million compared to an original estimated cost of
US$94 million, this being attributable to the lower contract prices for the infrastructure
works and lower contingency costs than originally estimated.



- 23 -
12.   In the case of the electric energy subproject, the direct cost was US$264 million
whereas the original estimate was US$268 million, but, while the cost of the dam and the
spillway proved lower than estimated, the cost of the equipment, consultants' services and
training categories was actually higher than estimated. It is important to point out, in this
connection, that the cost overrun of the electromechanical equipment is attributable,
among other things, to: (i) the inclusion of the western substation, which was not
originally considered in the scope of the project; (ii) the inclusion of control equipment;
and (iii) the higher than expected cost of the turbines and generators.
E.    Financial Performance
13.   EPM's financial performance during project implementation was satisfactory.
14.   Lower demand, higher tariffs and increased costs all impacted the financial results
achieved and were managed with criteria of austerity and rationalization.
15.   Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado (water and sewer services) tariff
adjustments:
16.   The application of Resolution 080/90 issued by the National Tariff Board resulted
in the approval of:
*  the elimination of tariff brackets for residential users;
-  one-time real increases and 5% annual average increases in residential user
tariffs;
-  the application of the economic cost to water supply tariffs for industrial and
commercial users;
*  an increase in the sewer tariff of between 30% and 50% of the water bill.
17.   The SAR considered some annual real tariff increases of 5.82% for the period
1984-91, while the above-mentioned tariff adjustments meant an average real annual
increase of 7.69% during the same period, which resulted in a decline in average user
consumption.
18.   In accordance with the mandate of the National Constitution of 1991, the State is
obliged to guarantee the efficient provision of public services to all citizens. Pursuant to
this goal, the Government established the Comisi6n Reguladora de Agua Potable y
Saneamiento Basico (Potable Water and Basic Sanitation Regulatory Commission)and the
Deputy Ministry of Housing, Urban Development and Potable Water within the Ministry
of Development and it will soon be setting up the Superintendencia de Servicios Pzublicos
Domiciliarios (Superintendency of Household Public Services). The Potable Water and
Basic Sanitation Regulatory Commission was established by Decree No. 2152 of 1992.



- 24 -
This Commission established the system of regulated freedom for municipalities providing
water and sewer services.
F.    Empresa de Energia (energy service) tariff adjustments
19.   The efforts begun in the course of the past decade in the area of tariffs contributed
significantly to EPM's solid financial position. Decree No. 2545 of 1984, which created
the standardized tariff structure, and Resolution 86 of 1986, which developed it, were
issued at a time when electricity tariffs were in a state of complete chaos. These
provisions represented a major breakthrough in laying the foundation for tariff
management, although the adjustment program set out in Resolution 86 proved
insufficient, given the sector's financial requirements.
20.   The adjustment program envisioned in Resolution 090 of 1990 issued by the
National Tariff Board made it possible to raise the tariffs of industrial and commercial
users to reflect the cost of the service (average long-term incremental cost).
21.   The difficulties currently being experienced have to do with eliminating the
subsidies. This problem cannot be resolved by tariff adjustments alone, since this would
mean drastically restricting these users' access to electricity. The present adjustment
program introduced by Resolution 70 of 1993 would make it possible to raise residential
user tariffs to levels that are consistent with the average long-term incremental cost.
22.   The restructuring of the electricity sector is a process that has been going on since
1991, the aim being to tailor the structure of electricity services to the ongoing
modernization of the economy. The issue of Decree No. 2119 of 1992 on the
modernization of the State resulted in the establishment of the Comisi6n de Regulaci6n
Energetica - CRE (Electric Energy and Gas Regulatory Commission), attached to the
Ministry of Mines and Energy. The role of this Commission is to formulate new
regulations for the electricity sector that will focus on aspects relating to the quality and
reliability of the services provided, promoting competition, wherever possible, in the
activities of the electricity sector, regulating existing monopolies and preventing practices
that are incompatible with competition. It will also take over the job of defining the tariff
structure previously handled by the National Tariff Board, which will be done away with
once the new decrees for modernizing the State are issued.
23.   Application of the Resolutions during the period under review made enabled the
tariff to increase in real terms by 5.40% per annum whereas the SAR had envisioned
2.34% per annum.
24.   Starting on December 17, 1993, with the issuing of Resolution No. 010 by CRE,
the new electricity sector conditions brought about by the restructuring programs began to
materialize, in keeping with the framework regulations established by the draft Electricity



- 25 -
Law and the draft Law on Household Public Services. These conditions include, among
others:
* promotion of competition in generation and marketing;
* separation of the end-user market into regulated and non-regulated.
25.   There is also a possibility that energy supply contracts will be signed between
distributors and major customers, the latter being classed as industrial and commercial
users connected to over I kV, with an average maximum demand exceeding 2 MW over
the last six months. Starting in 1995, users with a maximum average demand of more than
1 MW will be included in this market.
26.   These changes are shaping a new electricity sector that has greater flexibility and
that offers new conditions on which energy supply terms can be negotiated.
27.   Costs With respect to cost management policies, some important programs were
begun during the decade to cut water and energy losses and keep them under control, in
addition to the implementation of programs to promote the efficient use and conservation
of energy and potable water resources.
28.   In 1992, Empresa de Acueducto y Alcantarillado (Water Supply and Sewer
Service) returned to being an autogenerator of energy when it purchased the Ayura and
Piedras Blancas power plants. This is having a positive effect on operating costs, and the
Company plans in the medium term to construct micro power plants at the entrance of the
treatment plants, and also some distribution tanks, with a view to becoming self-sufficient
in terms of energy supply.
29.   The Company has stepped up its contracting of third parties in its various
operating and administrative processes, placing emphasis on the participation of
precooperative groups and community action groups.
30.   Administrative costs increased because EPM's Board of Directors approved, by a
resolution dated December 11, 1986, the grant of a lifetime retirement pension to all EPM
staff, in accordance with national legislation, this decision having affected the amount of
the company's actuarial obligations since 1986.
31.   With respect to debt servicing during the period under review, the magnitude of
amortizations which began during the period under review, in relation not only to the Rio
Grande Project II but also to the Guadalupe IV and Playas projects, also under
construction, is striking. Also taken into account was the effect of the sharp depreciation
of the Colombian peso (and also of the US dollar in certain years, in relation to other
currencies owed by EPM) on foreign currency debt service payments.



- 26 -
G.   Analysis of the Internal Financial Rate of Return for the Rio Grande
Multipurpose Project H
32.   In accordance with the methodology used in the Staff Appraisal Report of June 1,
1984, a figure of 5.2% was obtained for Empresa de AcueductoyAlcantarillado and 11%
for the Empresa de Energia, which thus gave a consolidated figure of 9.1% compared to
targets of 14% for water supply, 19% for energy and a consolidated figure of 18%
estimated by the SAR. This result can be accounted for by the following:
33.   Lower growth in demand compared to the SAR. In the case of Empresa de
Acueducto y Alcantarillado performance went from 93% in 1984 to 79% in 1991, while in
the case of Empresa de Energia it went from 98% in 1984 to 96% in 1991.
34.   Actual project expenditures were higher than the SAR figures, which reflected
domestic inflation, which was also higher than estimated during the period.
35.  Investments showed a higher growth rate than in the SAR. In the case of Empresa
de Acueducto, the second phase of the Rio Grande Project II included additional physical
targets, such as main and intercepting sewers in the development of the Medellin River
Sanitation plan and an expansion in the scope of the water supply control center.
Similarly, in the case of Empresa de Energia, there was the inclusion of the western
substation and control equipment. Investments were also affected by major
macroeconomic factors.
36.   Net ISA energy sales/purchases were affected by the larger volume of energy and
power sold in accordance with Decree 3298 of November 12, 1984, which established that
electricity sector companies were required to purchase 75% of their energy and power
rights from ISA, regardless of their actual needs.
37.   The Company has been making short and long-term changes in energy and power
as part of the new marketing scheme, which is based on the dismantling of obligatory
purchasing and the elimination of ISA as the sole commercial agent and the replacement of
this by purchase-sale with the various companies in the electricity sector.
38.   The methodology used to calculate the internal rate of return for the project is
shown in the annex.
H.   Project Impact and Sustainability
39.   The Rio Grande Multipurpose Project II is viewed as one of the most important
ever undertaken by EPM, considering its great benefit to the community in terms of both
potable water service and energy supply to the Aburra Valley and also in terms of the
variety of investments entailed, such as those relating to the intake and conveyance of



- 27 -
water to the treatment plant, in the case of the Empresa de Acueducto, and those for the
expansion of infrastructure for all the processes involved in electricity generation,
transmission, substations and distribution, in the case of the Energy Company.
40.   The foregoing plus the experience gained and the training acquired by the staff are
elements that will continue to be extended to both the Company and to the community.
1.    Bank Performance
41.   EPM wishes to highlight, in this report, the assistance it received from the Bank,
especially during the project preparation phase and in all aspects of the operational
management of the loan. The Bank provided the resources needed to enable EPM to
make the best possible use of the proceeds of the loan and although it was strict on
aspects relating to the bidding conditions, it was flexible on all those relating to the
administration of this loan: procedures, disbursements, extension, resource allocation, etc.
42.   The Bank's assistance was pivotal in improving many procedures and especially
those relating to the handling and processing of financial data, with which it always
provided excellent guidance. The supervision missions were sufficient in number and
generally provided important input toward achieving good technical and financial
performance.
43.   The Bank's relationship with the project was satisfactory, in that the Bank paid
attention to the suggestions put forward during supervision missions and our requests for
extensions of the disbursement schedule were favorably received by it.
44.   Although the Bank still offers its borrowers certain favorable conditions compared
to other international financial organizations, in terms of longer repayment periods, it must
be borne in mind that interest rates and currency fluctuations now make the Bank's
financing very similar to what is offered by the competition, i.e. commercial banks.
45.   The improvements introduced by the Bank in 1993 to the information and debt
management system have been satisfactory, since they allow greater agility and equity in
payments and a more practical overview of the elements involved in the monitoring of
loans.
J.    EPM'S Performance
46.   Generally speaking, EPM's administrative and technical staff was successful in
meeting the requirements of the project and the Bank, at all phases of the project, i.e. from
preparation through to project completion.
47.   The experience gained at all levels of the organizational structure has had a
multiplier effect with respect to the projects that have recently been started in all



- 28 -
departments, including the formation of the Porce II Division, which will be in charge of
the construction of the Porce II hydroelectric project within the Energy Company, the
Technical Division and the San Fernando Group, which is responsible for coordinating the
design and construction of the future wastewater treatment plant within the Water Supply
and Sewerage Company, and the Special Projects Division in the telecommunications
sector, which is coordinating the telephone plan for East Antioquia.
48.   Particular attention is drawn to the work done by the Rio Grande II Division, as
the project implementation unit, responsible for carrying out all the phases and works of
the project, coordinating all relations with the Bank on technical aspects, which facilitated
the integrated management of the project from its design through to its entry into
operation. The Rio Grande II Division was also assisted by other areas of the company in
accomplishing the objectives proposed, which made it possible to handle the project in
accordance with project management criteria. This enable the Company to execute more
works at a cost that was lower than estimated at appraisal.
49.   The training financed by the loan enabled the institution's professional and
technical staff to achieve a high standard of preparation and experience, due to the size of
the projects undertaken by EPM, the competence and efficiency it displays in contracting
out its services and the reliability it shows in operating these services. Besides energy the
project also covered finance and administration, which were areas that had not be taken
into account in previous externally financed programs.
K.   Institutional Aspects
50.   The project for the large-scale supply of natural gas to the city of Medellin and its
Metropolitan Area is of immense importance for bringing down the cost of the energy
basket in the residential and industrial market. Empresas Piulicas de Medellin began this
project in earnest in the course of 1991, with the creation of the Unidad del Gas (Gas
Unit) to assume responsibility for coordinating and implementing the household natural
gas distribution project. This program is consistent with the guidelines established by the
National Government in its large-scale distribution policy undertaken with the support of
the Ministry of Mines and Energy and ECOPETROL.
51.   In 1991 the Directorate of Computer Technology was formed with the aim of
systematizing the community-wide services provided by EPM. Its projects include, among
others, a Data Processing Master Plan designed to formulate strategy at the management
level for applying computer technology with the Companies, seeking to procure advanced
and appropriate technology systems that will be integrated and will allow the exchange of
information with existing systems.
52.   Among the major objectives of the Master Plan is the SIGMA Project, whose aim
is to bring about comprehensive and systematized management of all the service networks,



- 29 -
to develop the software needed to be able to optimize the information systems, and to
provide information resources for office computerization and for expansion and
optimization of the centralized computer services.
53.   Development of the SIGMA project and the procurement of equipment and
software for the organization received great technical and financial support from the Bank
as part of the Rio Grande II program.
54.   During 1992 the Loss Division responsible for loss recovery was assigned an
additional task in the form of an energy conservation plan, which adapted the
administrative structure to the current energy problem, seeking to create ongoing action
on energy demand.
55.   For this reason its name was changed from Loss Division to Conservation and
Energy Control Division and the Department of Energy Savings was created, whose
primary role has been to design, implement and execute the rational energy use program
which, combined with the loss plan, should eventually make the system work more
efficiently for the Companies.
56.   A highlight of 1992 was the incorporation of the Directorate of Internal Audit into
the administrative structure of the Empresas Publicas, in accordance with the regulations
contained in the new National Constitution and with the aim of providing the entity with a
system that warns and informs the organization of any deviations in its operations,
promotes more expeditious methods for correcting such deviations and constantly seeks to
improve the Entity, the system itself and job satisfaction.
L.    Lessons Learned
57.   During project implementation EPM had direct and personal relations with the
Bank, which made it easy to make any changes that were needed in the loan.
58.   Toward the end of the decade these relations were affected by the tightening up of
the Bank's policies toward Colombia's electricity sector, which was reflected in the
sectoral manner in which problems were handled. EPM needs to maintain and develop its
presence vis-a-vis the Bank and insist on receiving the differential treatment its particular
administrative and financial features warrant.
59.   EPM has taken decisive actions with a view to improving project preparation and
avoiding the mistakes identified in the preparation of previous projects. It has a complete
project management unit to take charge of the preparation and administration of the Porce
II Hydroelectric Project.
60.   In order to improve its financial performance, EMP must work with the Bank to
find mechanisms to shorten the long periods of time that elapse between negotiation,



- 30 -
effectiveness and the first and last disbursement, in order to minimize commitment fee
costs and extend the grace periods so that the amortization schedule does not begin so
long before the projects actually enter into operation. This will unquestionably improve
the flow of funds, making the Company's financial situation less risky.
61.   In conclusion, we feel that the SAR should not be the main parameter used in
making the final project evaluation because it results in greater emphasis being placed on
the bad side, i.e. the delays and differences, than on the good side, i.e. the successes
achieved.



- 31 -
COLOMBIA
RIO GRANDE MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(LOAN 2449-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART HI: RELATED STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.           Related Bank Loans
Loan Title         Purpose              Amount US$        Approval      Status
l __________                                M illion
1868-CO     Guadalupe IV Hydro              124.55          1980      Completed
1953-CO     Playas Hydro                     85.00           1981     Completed
2889-CO     Power Sector Adjustment         225.00           1987      Ongoing
3278-CO     Public Sector Reform            304.00           1990      Ongoing
3336-CO     Municipal Development            60.00           1991      Ongoing
2.           Project Timetable
j  Task                       Date Planned               Date Actual
|  Appraisal                     11/83                      11/83
Loan Negotiations             5/84                       5/84|
Board Approval                   6/84                       6/84
Loan Signing                     7/84                       9/84
Loan Effectiveness           12/84                      12/84
Loan Closing                 12/91                       6/94
Project Completion            6/90                       5/94



- 32 -
3.           Loan Disbursements
Estimated           Actual
Fiscal Year and        Cumulative         Cumulative      Actual as % of
Semester            US$ Million        US$ Million       Estimated
1985        Dec. 1985               413.00               0.41              3
Jun.. 1985              21.00               8.47             40
1986        Dec. 1985                25.80              14.85             58
Jun. 1986               32.70              18.94             58
1987         Dec. 1986               48.10              22.27             46
Jun. 1987               67.30             30.94              46
1988        Dec. 1987                85.30              35.97             42
Jun. 1988              102.70             35.97              35
1989         Dec. 1988              119.00              38.91             33
Jun. 1989              133.10             52.22              39
1990        Dec. 1989               144.30              58.19             40
l____         Jun. 1990              153.70              65.15             42
1991        Dec. 1990               160.20              83.98             52
l____         Jun. 1991              164.50             104.95             64
1992         Dec. 1991              120.14                                73
Jun. 1992              125.12                                76
1993         Dec. 1992              127.40                                77
Jun.. 1993             137.79                                84
1994        Dec. 1993               142.46                                87
__    I       Jun. 1994              156.80                                95
Date of Final Disbursement: June 30, 1994
Cancellations: US$7.70 million



- 33 -
4.           Allocation of Loan Proceeds (in US$)
Category                       Original          Actual
l_________________________________________      Allocation      Disbursement
1. Civil Works for Parts A, B, C, and D of Project  81,000,000   65,515,000
2. Equipment and materials (excluding turbines and  43,000,000   75,894,000
generators) and ancillary services for Parts A, B,
C, and D of Project                                                        l
3 Equipment and materials and ancillary services   800,000        2,338,000
for Part F of Project
4. Consultants' services for Parts A, B, C, and D of  8,000,000   19,287,000
Project
5. Training and equipment for Part E of Project    800,000        1,356,000
6. Initial Deposit                               8,000,000
7. Fee                                             410,224          410,000
8. Unallocated                                  22,489,776
Total                                        US$164,500,0001      156,800,000
A total of US$7,70 million was canceled from the Loan at the request of the Borrower.



- 34 -
5.           Project Implementation
Component                SAR Estimate              Actual
Civil Works
Intake and main tunnel                 6/88                   4/89
Dam and spillway                       9/88                   9/88
Tasajera cavern                       10/89                   7/93
Niquia cavern and conduit             12/88                  12/98
Substations                            7/88                   5/93
Transmission Lines                     5/88                   3/93
Equipment
Turbines-First Unit Tasajera          10/89                  10/93
Generators and busbars First Unit     10/89                  10/93
Powerhouse Crane                       6/86                   6/91
Tunnel Linings                        11/87                   9/92
Gates                                 11/87                   9/93
Auxiliaries Tasajera                  11/87                   9/93
Auxiliaries Niquia                     1/87                   9/93
Substation equipment                  12/87                   9/93
Transmission line materials            6/87                   3/93
Completion of Project                  6/90                   5/94



- 35 -
6.           Project Costs and Financing
Project Funding
(in US$ Million)
SAR                 Actual
IBRD Loan (2449-CO)                  164.5                156.8
Cofinancing B-Loan                    65.5        _
Suppliers (Turbine/Generators)        22.9                 26.9
FONADE-FEN and Government             13.6                 17.5
EXIMBANK Japon - FEN                  36.0                              l
EPM                                  151.6                157.7
Totals                               418.1                394.9
7.           Project Results
The SAR evaluated the return on investment as the discount rate equalizing the
present values of the stream of benefits and costs associated with EPM's 1984-1990 water
supply and power development program of which the Rio Grande Project is a part and cannot
be reasonably segregated. In calculating the revised internal rate of return a similar
methodology has been used. The cost streams comprise the capital cost of this program
(including Phase II of the Rio Grande Scheme - water treatment, and distribution and
sewerage) and incremental operational and maintenance cost related to the incremental sales of
electricity and water associated with the program. These costs where deflated to March 1984
(original price level in the SAR). Foreign costs were then converted to Colombian Pesos at the
March 1984 exchange rate. As proxy for benefits, revenues from sales of power and water
were used, derived from incremental sales associated with the program and average annual
exchange rates, deflated for adjustment to March 1984. This exercise was extended for 40
years after commissioning of the Project in mid- 1994, which is considered the useful life of the
Project. On these basis the recomputed rate of return is 9% compared to 18% in the SAR.
This recomputed rate of retum, compares nevertheless favorably with the opportunity cost of
capital in Colombia, estimated to be about 10- 12%.



- 36 -
8.           Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs Staff inputs in carrying out the various task through the project
cycle from appraisal in FY84 to preparation of the Project Completion Report in FY94, were
as follows:
Task                              Input (Staff Weeks)
Appraisal                                                   83
Negotiations                                                15
Supervision                                                 76
Total                                                      174
Mission Data
Type of Mission   Fiscal   No. of   No. of    Staff   Performance    Type of
Year    Weeks   Persons  Weeks          Rating'    Problems2
Field
Appraisal           84        3         4         9
Supervision I       85        1         3         3           1
Supervision II      86        1         3         3           1
Supervision III     87        2         2         4           1
Supervision IV      88        1         3         3           1
Supervision V       89        1         5         5           2             0
Supervision VI      90        1         3         3           2             0
Supervision VII     91        1         2         2           2             0
Supervision VIII    92        1         4         4           2             0
Supervision IX      93        1         1         1           1
PCR                 94        1          1        1
I = Problem-free or minor problems
2 = Moderate problems
2 F = Financial; M = Managerial; and 0 = Other



- 37 -
9.           Status of Legal Covenants
EPM has complied with the covenants in the Loan Agreement, as shown
below:
Status of
Section   |                  Brief Description                  Compliance
A. PROJECT COVENANTS
3. 01 (a)     Carry out the Project with efficiency                  Complied
3.01 (b)     (i) Carry out a training program                       Complied
(ii) Implement a Data Processing Network
3.02 (a)     Employment of Consultants to assist EPM in Project     Complied
Implementation
3.02 (b)     Employment of three Consultants for its board of experts  Complied
for the overall supervision of the Project.
3.03 (a)     Insure the imported goods                              Complied
3.04 (a)     Furnish to the Bank plans, contracts and schedules for the  Complied
Project
3.04 (b)     Keep records to monitor the Project progress, its cost and  Complied
benefits
3.05          Acquire lands and rights required for the construction of the   Complied
Project
3.06         Implement the Project with due regard to ecological and  Complied
environmental factors                                            l
3.07         Take actions necessary for the completion of the water  Complied
treatment plant and related distribution networks
3.08          Sign agreements with the Municipalities of Envigado,   Complied
Sabaneta and La Estrella on water supply and sewerage
services
4.01          Carry on its operations and plan its expansion in accordance   Complied
with sound practices, with qualified management and
experienced staff     _
4.02 (a)     Maintain its facilities adequately                      Complied
4.02 (b)      Cause all of its dams and other large structures to be  Complied
periodically inspected
4.03         Maintain insurance against risks                        Complied
5.01 (a)     Maintain separate records for each Department          Complied
5.01 (b)     Keep records of expenditures withdrawn through S.O.E.  Complied
5.02 (a)     (i) Auditing of accounts and financial statements      Complied
(ii) Auditing of Special Accounts



- 38 -
Status of
Section                      Brief Description                   Comrliance
5.02 (b)      Submit to the Bank within five months after the end of each    Complied
year copies of:
(i) Financial Statements and Special Account;-
(ii) Audit Reports                                                l
5.02 (c)      Monthly certified statements of the Special Account    Complied
5.03          Annual report on actual and forecasted financial       Complied
performance                                                       l
5.06          No new debts if net revenues are less than 1.5 times the  Complied
debt service in any year
5.07 (a)     (i) Rate of return (R.O.R.) in power operations not less  Complied
than 10% in 1987 and thereafter
(ii) R.O.R. in water supply and sewerage operations not less
than 5.2% in 1989 and thereafter
5.07 (b)      (i) Quarterly calculation of R.O.R.                    Complied
(ii) Submit to the Bank quarterly calculation of R.O.R.
(iii) Actions to obtain required R.O.R.
5.08          Monthly tariff increases                               Complied
5.10 (a)      Expenditures for capacity expansion larger than 100 MW  Complied
only if it is part of ISA's program and approved by the Bank
l5. 10 (b)    Bank's approval for expenditures larger than 1% of fixed  Complied
l _______________  assets
5.11          Transfers among Departments only if they are in excess and    Complied
treated as a loan
5.12          Obtain financial resources for about Col$1,200,000,000 for    Complied
the Water Supply and Sewerage Department            I






I  H
,t  .) 13        ;.- ;AjI
1_ _  | : (-    C.,   ! ;39 
r            .   -;
i' :  uN   V  H~vil



