OFFICIAL      LOAN NUMBER 2449 CO
DOCU ME NTS
Loan Agreement
(Rfo Grande Multipurpose Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
Dated      4   Z42/                   1984


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2449 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     O2/    , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN (here-
inafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addition-
al terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Power Department" means the Borrower's power service
department;
(b) "Water Supply and Sewerage Department" means the Bor-
rower's water supply and sewerage service department;
(c) "Department" means one of the following of the Bor-
rower's  departments: energia, telefonos, and     acueducto  and
alcantarillado;
(d) "Power Assets" means all electric power generating
plants, substations, transmission lines and related facilities
and assets assigned to the Power Department;
(e) "Water Supply and Sewerage Assets" means all raw water
facilities, treatment plants, water distribution and sewerage
facilities assigned by the Borrower to its Water Supply and
Sewerage Department;


﻿- 2 -
(f)  "pesos" and "Col$" means pesos in the currency of the
Guarantor;
(g)  "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower set
forth in Acuerdo No. 58 of 1955 of the Municipalidad de Medelln
issued in accordance with Decreto No. 1816 of 1955, as such
estatutos may be amended from time to time and such term shall
include all other applicable legislation of the Municipalidad de
Medell(n;
(h) "Telecommunications Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement for Loan 1825-CO of December 19, 1980, between the Bank
and the Borrower, and "Telecommunications Guarantee Agreement"
means the guarantee agreement for Loan 1825-CO of even date bet-
ween the Guarantor and the Bank;
(i)  "First Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 225-CO of May 20, 1959 between the Bank and the Bor-
rower, and "First Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee
agreement for Loan No. 225-CO of even date between the Guarantor
and the Bank;
(j)  "Second Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 282-CO of May 12, 1961 between the Bank and the Bor-
rower, and "Second Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee
agreement for Loan No. 282-CO of even date between the Guarantor
and the Bank;
(k)  "Third Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 369-CO of February 7, 1964 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "Third Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guaran-
tee agreement for Loan No. 369-CO of even date between the Gua-
rantor and the Bank;
(1) "Fourth Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 874-CO of January 12, 1973 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "Fourth Power Guarantee Agreement" means the gua-
rantee agreement for Loan No. 874-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;
(m)  "Fifth Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 1868-CO of December 19, 1980 between the Bank and
the Borrower, and "Fifth Power Guarantee Agreement     means the
guarantee agreement for Loan No. 1868-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;


﻿-3-
(n) "Sixth Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 1953-CO of November 6, 1981 between the Bank and the
Borrower and "Sixth Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guaran-
tee agreement for Loan No. 1953-CO of even date between the Gua-
rantor and the Bank;
(o) "First Power Shareholders' Agreement" means the share-
holder agreement for Loan 1582-CO of July 14, 1978 between the
Bank and the Borrower, and "Seventh Power Guarantee Agreement"
means the guarantee agreement for Loan 1582-CO of even date bet-
ween the Guarantor and the Bank;
(p) "Second Power Shareholders' Agreement" means the share-
holder agreement for Loan 1725-CO of November 30, 1979 between
the Bank and the Borrower, and "Eighth Power Guarantee Agreement"
means the guarantee agreement for Loan 1725-CO of even date
between the Guarantor and the Bank;
(q) "Power Sponsors' Agreement" means the sponsors' agree-
ment for Loan 2008-CO of March 8, 1980 between the Bank and
various sponsors including the Borrower;
(r) "Power Loan Agreements" means collectively the loan
agreements referred to in paragraphs (i), (j), (k), (1), (m) and
(n) hereof;
(s) "Power Guarantee Agreements" means collectively the
guarantee agreements referred to in paragraphs (i), (j), (k),
(1), (m), (n), (o) and (p) hereof;
(t) "Power Shareholders' Agreements" means collectively the
shareholders' agreements referred to in paragraphs (o) and (p)
hereof;
(u) "Power Investment Program" means the Borrower's invest-
ment program for its Power Department for the years 1984 to 1991
set forth in Acta No. 931 dated April 18, 1984 and Acta No. 952
dated February 2, 1980 and Acta. No. 1,018 dated September 28,
1982 of the Junta Directiva of the Borrower;
(v) "Water Supply and Sewerage Investment Program" means
the Borrower's investment program for the years 1984 to 1991 for
its Water Supply and Sewerage Department set forth in Acta No.
909 dated July 3, 1978 and Acta No. 1,018 dated September 28,
1982 of the Junta Directiva of the Borrower;


﻿4-
(w) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment;
(x) "Initial Deposit" means the amount of the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account through one or more
withdrawals under Category 6 in the table set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement; and
(y) "Account Bank" means Banco de la Repulblica.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Loan
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred sixty four million five hundred thousand dollars
($164,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the Account Bank a special
account denominated in, and convertible into, dollars on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.      The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to four hundred ten thousand two hundred twenty-four
dollars ($410,224).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.


﻿-6-
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first -ssix months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out by December 31, 1989,
the program described in Part E of the Project in terms satis-
factory to the Bank; and (ii) carry out by December 31, 1987, the
activities included in Part F of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants
to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Without limitation to paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall employ three consultants to staff its board of experts in


﻿-7-
charge of the overall supervision of the carrying out of the
Project and shall maintain the operation of such board until the
completion of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.


﻿-8-
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed but in any case not later than December 31, 1986, all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all actions necessary
(including the provision of the financial resources) for the
completion of the water treatment plant and related distribution
networks required for the development of the second phase of the
water supply facilities referred to in Part B of the Project,
such development to be carried out in accordance with a timetable
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than March 15,
1985, enter into contractual arrangements with the Municipalities
of Envigado, Sabaneta and La Estralla, in terms and ccrditions
satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the provision by the Borrower
of water supply and sewerage services to the population of such
Municipalities.


﻿-9-
AKTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times carry on its
operations, conduct its affairs, maintain its financial position
and plan its future expansion in accordance with sound admini-
strative, financial, business and public utility practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management, assisted
by competent and experienced staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times operate
and maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, cause all of its dams, reservoir banks, waterways and
earthworks assigned to the Power Department to be periodically
inspected, in accordance with sound engineering practices, in
order to determine whether there are any deficiencies or poten-
tial deficiencies in the condition of such structures and earth-
works, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance of methods
of operation of such structures and earthworks which may endanger
the safety of such structures and earthworks.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against -uch risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall operate each of its
Departments separately and shall, for the assets, revenues and
expenditures of each of its Departments maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of such Departments.


﻿- 10 -
(b) Without limitation    on  the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) for each of its Departments have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than five months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements and of the
Special Account for such year as so audited; (ii) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 as to whether the proceeds of the
loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided;
(c) furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the
Special Account; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts, records and financial statements of the Borrower's
Departments and of the Special Account, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. Not later than three months after the end of
each calendar year, the Borrower shall for each of its Depart-
ments prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall- have reasonably requested,


﻿- 11 -
showing the Borrower's financial performance through the end of
such year and projected through the following twelve months.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise reported to the Bank or stated
in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase there-
of, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of
such property or as security for the payment of debt incurred for
the purpose of financing the purchase of such property; or (B)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall not, without the consent of
the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all
of its Power Assets or Water Supply and Sewerage Assets or all or
substantially all of the property included in the Project or any
plant included therein, unless the Borrower shall first redeem
and pay, or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for
redemption or payment of, all of the Loan which shall then be
outstanding and unpaid.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt for the benefit of the
operations of any Department, unless the net revenues earned
on the operations of such Department for the fiscal year imme-
diately preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt,


﻿- 12 -
including the debt to be incurred, to be serviced with revenues
generated by the operations of such Department. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower,
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into;
(c) the term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's tariffs in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate and net non-operating income; and (B) the
sum of all expenses related to operations including administra-
tion, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash opera-
ting charges and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "net non-operating income" means the dif-
ference between: (A) revenues from all sources other than related
to operations; and (B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
above;
(e) (i) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of repayment (including sinking fund pay-
ments, if any) of, interest and other charges on, debt; provided,
however, that in respect of the Borrower's Power Department this
term shall also include all amounts to be payable by the Borrower
to Interconexi6n El'ctrica S.A. (hereinafter called ISA) in
exchange for shares and bonds of ISA, as required by the
Estatutos of ISA; and (ii) for the purpose of sub-paragraph (i)
hereof, the term "Estatutos" means the estatutos of ISA dated
September 14, 1967, as amended as of the date of this Agreement
and as further amended from time to time, under which ISA was
established and operates, and the term "bonds" means titulos
issued by ISA pursuant to paragraph (b) of Article 12 of the
Estatutos; and


﻿- 13 -
(f) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank and the Borrower, with the
concurrence of the Guarantor, shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall: (i) in the carrying out of its
power operations, earn an annual return of not less than 7% in
the year 1984, 10% in the year 1985, 12% in the year 1986, 10% in
the year 1987 and thereafter, on the average net current value of
its fixed Power Assets in operation calculated in accordance with
the method outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) in
the carrying out of its water supply and sewerage operations,
earn an annual return of not less than 1.1% in the year 1984,
2.5% in the year 1985, 3.5% in the year 1986, 5.5% in the year
1987, 6% in the year 1988, and 5.2% in the year 1989 and there-
after on the average net current value of its fixed Water Supply
and Sewerage Assets in operation calculated in accordance with
the method outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall, within the first two months of each
calendar quarter:
(i) calculate in respect of its Power Department and
its Water Supply and Sewerage Department:
(A) the actual return earned in the course of the
twelve-month period immediately preceding
such quarter;
(B) the return which, on the basis of reasonable
estimates, is expected to be earned in the
course of the twelve-month period beginning
with such quarter, after adding to or sub-
tracting from the estimated operating income
for such period any overrun or shortfall in
the actual return for the preceding twelve-
month period; and


﻿- 14 -
(ii) furnish to the Bank the assumptions for the
results of such calculations; and
(c) if any such calculation shall show that the Borrower
cannot be expected to earn in respect of its Power Department or
its Water Supply and Sewerage Department, as the case may be, the
requirements set forth under paragraph (a) during the twelve-
month period commencing with the calendar quarter in which the
calculation is made, the Borrower shall take all such steps as
shall be necessary (including those steps necessary on its part
for obtaining the adjustment of its tariffs) to meet such
requirements.
Section 5.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sec-
tion 5.07 of this Agreement and except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall increase on a monthly basis its
tariffs: (i) for the sale of electricity by not less than 2.2%
until December 31, 1988, and 1.8% thereafter; and (ii) for water
supply by not less than 1.8% until December 31, 1988 and 1.5%
thereafter.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of
the Bank before committing itself to, or making, any capital
expenditure not directly related to the operations of any of its
Departments.
Section 5.10. Until the Project shall have been completed:
(a) the Borrower shall: (i) inform the Bank on any proposal
of the Borrower to make any capital expenditure (not required for
the Project) for increasing its power generating capacity by more
than one-hundred megawatts; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on any such proposal; and (iii) not commit
itself to, nor make, any such capital expenditure unless the pro-
posed expenditure is economically justified as part of the
national power expansion program of Interconexi6n El"ctrica S.A.
and the Borrower has obtained financing under terms and condi-
tions which will not affect its financial condition, the carrying
out of the Project and the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement; and
(b) the Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank
before committing itself to any capital expenditure for the


﻿- 15 -
benefit of its Power Department or its Water Supply and Sewerage
Department if the aggregate of such capital expenditure and all
such other capital expenditures made or to be made in any one
fiscal year (excluding those referred to in paragraph (a) above
and those required for: (i) the Project; (ii) payment to Inter-
conexion El'ctrica S.A.; and (iii) investments included in the
Borrower's Power Investment Program or in the Borrower's Water
Supply and Sewerage Program, as the case may be) exceed or will
exceed an amount equivalent to one percent (1%) of the net
current value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation, as
defined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.11. (a) The Borrower shall allocate all funds
generated by the Power Department or the Water Supply and Sewer-
age Department exclusively to each such Department and shall not
transfer such funds, or any portion thereof, to any of its other
Departments unless the funds proposed to be transferred are in
excess of those required by the Power Department or the Water
Supply and Sewerage Department, as the case may be, to cover all
operating expenses; and capital expenditures provided, however,
that any such transfer shall be treated as a loan from the Power
Department or the Water Supply and Sewerage Department, as the
case may be, to the other Departments, on commercial terms and
conditions.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the term "operating
expenses"  shall   mean  all  expenses   related  to  operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation
and other non-cash operating charges), debt service requirements,
all cash dividends and other cash distributions of surplus, in-
crease in working capital other than cash and other cash out-
flows other than capital expenditures; and the term "capital
expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on account of fixed
assets, including the Project and interest charged to construc-
tion, related to operations.
Section 5.12. The Borrower shall enter into arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank in order to obtain financial resources
(other than the Loan) for the benefit of the Water Supply and
Sewerage Department as required for the carrying out of the
Project during the years 1984 and 1985, such financial resources
estimated to be, in the aggregate, of one thousand two hundred
million pesos (Col$1,200,000,000).


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to the Power Loan Agrecments,
Power Shareholders' Agreements and
Power Sponors' Agreement
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower agree that the
financial covenants set forth in Sections 5.06, 5.07, 5.08 and
5.10 of this Agreement supersede any of the Power Loan Agree-
ments, Power Shareholders' Agreements and Power Sponsors' Agree-
ment on the matters referred to in the above-reierenced Sections,
and, to the extent that the provisions of such Agreements may be
inconsistent with the terms of the above-referenced Sections, the
former provisions shall be deemed amended and substituted by the
corresponding Sections of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Estatutos or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated, or new legislation shall have
been adopted by the Municipal Council of Medellin which would
affect, materially and adversely, the operations or financial
condition of the Borrower or the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under the Loan Agreement; and
(b) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation (other than an obligation to pay monies) on the part
of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Power Loan Agreements,
the Power Guarantee Agreements, the Power Shareholders' Agree-
ments, the Telecommunication Loan Agreement or the Telecommunica-
tion Guarantee Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event
specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section 7.01 shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower
and the Guarantor.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The date A      640e-g4    80 1//9  , is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresas Publicas de Medellin
Calle 53 No. 52-16
Medellin
Colombia
Cable address:                       Telex:
EMPRESAS                            65282
Medellin


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/1'*
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
By   /!
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works for          81,000,000         58%
Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project
(2) Equipment and            43,000,000         100% of foreign
materials (exclud-                         expenditures and
ing turbines and                           91% of local
generators) and                            expenditures
ancillary services
for Parts A, B, C
and D of the Project
(3) Equipment and               800,000         100% of foreign
materials and                              expenditures and
ancillary services                         91% of local
for Part F of the                          expenditures
Project
(4) Consultants' services     8,000,000
for Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project:
(a) foreign consul-                        100% of foreign
tants                                 expenditures
(b) local consultants                      50%
(5) Training and equipment       800,000        100% of foreign
for Part E of the                          expenditures
Project


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Initial Deposit           8,000,000         Amount due pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 of Sched-
ule 6 to this
Agreement
(7) Fee                         410,224         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(8) Unallocated              22,489,776
TOTAL             164,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply there-
of; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or
in respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such Category as
required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for


﻿- 21 -
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $13,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1983.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the- Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may conti-
nue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the water
availability and power generating capacity of the Borrower and to
continue the programs aimed at the institutional strengthening of
the Borrower. The Project consists of:
Part A:   Tasajera Hydroelectric Station
Construction and equipping of the Tasajera hydroelectric
facilities, including roads and bridges; river diversion works;
dam and spillway; intake tower; underground works for power
including pressure tunnel, surge tank, penstock tunnel and pen-
stock, ancillary tunnels, caverns, tailrace tunnel and tailrace
canal; a substation, ancillary works and general accessory ser-
vices.
Part B:   Raw Water Supply Facilities
Construction and equipping of the Niquia raw water supply
facilities, including roads and bridges; intake tower; under-
ground works including pressure tunnel and penstock tunnel;
pressure reducing facilities; raw water tank; conduit to treat-
ment plant; a substation; ancillary works and general accessory
services.
Part C:    Niquia hydroelectric Station
Construction and equipping of the Niquia hydroelectric
station, comprising the power station building and related struc-
tures and works; a substation; ancillary works and general
accessory services.
Part D:   Transmission
Construction and equipping of the 220-ky transmission line
between the Tasajera and the existing Barbosa substation and of
the 44-ky transmission line between the Niquia substation and the
existing Bello substation, including the necessary changes in and
additions to the existing substations, ancillary works and
general accessory services.


﻿- 23 -
Part E:   Training
A program for the training of the Borrower's staff.
Part F:   Data Processing Network
Acquisition, erection and utilization of equipment for the
second phase of a computerized data processing network among the
Borrower's various offices.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning Febrvary 15, 1989
through   February 15, 2001                  6,325,000
On August 15, 2001                                6,375,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditiits, Section 3.04.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           .18
before maturity
More than three years but not                       .35
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                         .65
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      .88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 27 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering goods manufactured    in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or


﻿- 28 -
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 29 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method of Calculating Rate of Return
1.   The annual return specified in Section 5.07 (b) of this
Agreement will be calculated, in each calendar quarter in respect
of the twelve-month period beginning with such quarter and the
twelve-month period immediately preceding, by using as the
denominator the average between the net current values of the
respective fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of each such period and as numerator the operating income of
the Borrower for the same period.
2.   Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual return for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding the quarter in
which the calculation is to be made will be carried forward and
subtracted or added, *as the case may be, to the numerator used
for the forthcoming twelve-month period.
3.   "Operating income" will be: (i) in respect of the Power
Department, the difference between all revenues from the sale
of electricity, and all administrative and operating costs
relating thereto (including maintenance and adequate provision
for straight-line depreciation on the average gross value of
revaluated fixed assets in operation); and (ii) in respect of
the Water Supply and Sewerage Department, the difference between
all revenues from water and sewerage charges (including amounts
collected for water and sewerage connections) and all administra-
tive and operating costs relating thereto (including maintenance
and adequate provisions for straight-line depreciation on the
average gross value of revalued fixed assets in operation).
4.   The net current value of fixed assets in operation will be
at any given date their gross value less accumulated depreciation
to such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with
paragraphs 5 and 7 below.
5.   The gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation
and works in progress will be revalued quarterly in accordance
with the corresponding variation in the Indice Nacional de
Precios al Consumidor - Nivel 1 - published by the Departamento
Administrativo Nacional de Estadfstica of the Guarantor, to the
last month preceding the quarter in which the calculation is to
be made.


﻿- 31 -
6.   For the purposes of this calculation:
(i) the aggregate gross value, as of December 31,
1976, of the Borrower's fixed Power Assets in
operation  will   be  fixed   at  eight  thousand
forty-four million pesos (Col$8,044,000,000);
(ii) the aggregate gross value, as of December 31,
1976,  of   the  Borrower's  fixed  Power  Assets
in construction will be fixed at three thou-
sand   one  hundred   forty-eight  million  pesos
(Col$3,148,000,000);
(iii) the accumulated depreciation on the Power Assets,
as of December 31, 1976, in (i) hereof will be
fixed at one thousand seven hundred seventy-nine
million pesos (Col$1,779,000,000);
(iv) the aggregate gross value, as of December 31,
1982, of the Borrower's fixed Water Supply and
Sewerage Assets in operation will be fixed at
nineteen thousand two hundred two million pesos
(Col$19,202,000,000);
(v) the aggregate gross value, as of December 31,
1982, of the Borrower's fixed Water Supply and
Sewerage Assets in construction will be fixed at
two thousand three hundred twenty-three million
pesos (Col$2,323,000,000); and
(vi) the accumulated depreciation on the Water Supply
and Sewerage Assets, as of December 31, 1982, in
(iv) hereof will be fixed at four thousand sixty-
four million pesos (Col$4,064,000,000).
7.   The Borrower will furnish to the Bank during the first
quarter of each fiscal year a report on the revaluation of assets
through the end of the preceding fiscal year.
8.   Depreciation will be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of the Borrower's fixed assets.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Categories" means, collectively, Category (1)
through (5) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement and the term "Category" means any one of
them; and
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Categories in accordance with
the provisions of, and in the percentages set forth in, the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule. For each withdrawal, the Account Bank
shall debit the Special Account with the dollar equivalent of
the amount in pesos or any other currency other than dollars so
withdrawn, determined on the basis of the rate of exchange
between the dollar and such currency in effect at the date each
withdrawal shall have been made.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit. Thereafter and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for Eligible Expenditures, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount remain-
ing on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the
Initial Deposit. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each
such deposit after the Initial Deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective Category or Cate-
gories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 33 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account after the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of
each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account
such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, any request for a further deposit into the Special
Account may be denied by the Bank (a) when the Bank shall have
determined at any time that all further withdrawals can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Loan Account in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment, or (b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allo-
cated to the Categories minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse entered into by the Bank and of
any outstanding special commitment made by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, with respect to the Cate-
gories, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Initial Deposit. Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower and shall, except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, be made only after and to the extent the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and


﻿- 34 -
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of.          8  .
FOR SECRETARY


