The World Bank                                W     I      Strept, NW          Tel. (202) 473-3771
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP           nP DC 20433        Fax (202) 617-9135
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
June 28, 2012
Lic. Hector Guillermo Guill6n G6mez
Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas
Secretaria de Finanzas
Avenida Cervantes, Barrio El Jazmin
Edificio SEFIN
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras, C.A.
Re: HONDURAS: Credit No.4381-HO (Education Quality, Governance and Institutional
Strengthening Project)
Amendment to the Financing Agreement
Dear Sir,
We refer to the Financing Agreement for the above-captioned Project between the
Republic of Honduras (the Recipiert) and the International Development Association (the
Association), dated July 2, 2008, with respect to the above-captioned Project (the Financing
Agreement). Please note that capitalized terms used in this letter (the Amendment Letter) and not
defined herein have the meaning ascriled in them in the Financing Agreement.
Pursuant to your letter dated June 20, 2012 to the Association, wherein a request is made
to wave the withdrawal condition included in Section IV.B. 1 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Financing
Agreement because an equivalent cordition has been complied with, we are pleased to inform
you that the Association hereby agrees to waive said withdrawal condition.
In addition, pursuant to the above-mentioned letter, wherein a request is also made to
amend the Financing Agreement to: (a) reallocate funds between categories of Eligible
Expenditures; (b) modify Project activities; and (c) reflect new implementation arrangements, we
are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to your request and proposes to amend the
Financing Agreement as follows:
1. New sub-sections (c) and (d) are hereby added to Section 4.01 of the Financing
Agreement to read in its entirety as follows:
"(c)   INPREMA Law or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner
so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Association,
the ability of the Recipient to carry out the Project.
(d)    INPREMA shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under
the PROHECO Affiliation Agreement and/or the PROHECO Debt
Payment Agr.ement, in such a manner so as to affect materially and
adversely, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of the Recipient
to carry out the Project."
2. Section 4.02 (b) of the Financing Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as
follows:
"(b)   Any event specified in paragraph (b), and/or (c), and/or (d) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement occurs."


﻿-2-
3. Part 2.A of Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"A.    Supporting the consolidation and institutionalization of the Recipient's
school management system through:
1.    the strengthening of the PROHECO through: (a) technical
assistance to institutionalize PROHECO as a regular program of
the SE; (b) activities aimed at informing PROHECO teachers
about their individual pension benefits and rights; and (c)
activit es aimed at strengthening the financial management and
recording capabilities at the AECO level; and
2.    the provision of training to: (a) the Recipient's school
management entities to strengthen social management processes
and to promote partnerships with other institutions that support
the Recipient's education sector; and (b) rural school networks to
strengthen their legal, administrative, technical and pedagogical
skills for school management."
4. Part 2.B of Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"B.    Strengthening the Recipient's school planning capacity and resource
allocation for quality education, through:
1.    the provision of training to school management entities within
the rural school networks on the preparation and monitoring of
outcories of PECs and PERs; and
2.    the distribution of operational manuals for the preparation and
monitoring of outcomes of PECs and PERs."
5. Part 2.C of Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"C.    Supporting the development and implementation of a participatory
monitoring and evalua:ion system for school management, through:
1.    the development and installation of a web-based integrated
education information system for rural school networks and
schools within said networks, including the implementation of a
school institutional evaluation module, integrating the PECs and
the PE Rs;
2.    the development of strategies, procedures and instruments to
streng:hen the participatory monitoring of communities and
parent associations for learning outcomes and teachers'
performance."


﻿-3-
6. Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"2. (a) The Recipient, through SE, shall maintain, throughout Project
implementation, a project management unit (UGP), with composition,
functions and resp:nsibilities acceptable to the Association and set forth in
the Operational Mnual, including the administration of the Project.
(b) The Recipient shall ensure that the UGP is, at all times during Project
implementation, headed by a coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate
numbers (including inter alia, a procurement specialist, a financial
management specialist, a monitoring specialist and procurement and
financial management assistants), all with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association. The Recipient undertakes that, unless the
Association may ofherwise agree, UGP personnel shall only be hired based
on professional criteria and shall only be replaced for reasons related to
performance."
7. The table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby
amended to read in its entirety as follows:
Amount of the     Percentage of Expenditures
Credit Allocated         to be Financed
"Category             (expressed in SDR)      (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, consultant's services,    3,804,000                100%
Non-consultant services and
Training for Part 1 of the Project
(2) Goods, consultant's services,    1,016,000                100%
Non-consultant services and
Training for Part 2 of the Project
(3) Goods, consultant's services,    2,140,000                100%
Non-consultant services and
Training and Operating Costs for
Part 3.A of the Project
(4) Goods, consultant's services,    1,465,000                100%
Non-consultant services and
Training for Part 3 of the Project
other than those covered by
Category (3) above
(5) Goods, consultant's services,    1,375,000                100%
Training and Operating Costs for
Part 4 of the Project
TOTAL AMOUNT                        9,800,000"
8. Section V of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:


﻿-4-
"Section V.   Other Undertakings
1. No later than March 31, 2013, the Recipient shall determine the
entitlements for each PROHECO teacher with respect to the pension
payments that such teacher and the employer have made since March 1,
1999, all in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.     No later than March 31, 2013, the Recipient, through SEFIN, shall
amend the PROHECO Debt Payment Agreement, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, to establish the amount of the debt that
the Recipient, through SEFIN, shall pay to INPREMA accounting for the
specific entitlements of each PROHECO teacher employed since March
1, 1999 to January 31, 2012 (as such entitlements were determined
pursuant to parigraph 1 of this Section V).
3.     The Recipient, through SEFIN and SE, shall exercise its rights and carry
out its obligati ns under the PROHECO Affiliation Agreement and the
PROHECO Debt Payment Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association."
9. Section I of the Appendix to the Financing Agreement is hereby modified to:
(a) Delete the following definitions (as a result existing definitions are renumbered
to keep the alphabetical order): ECU", "EFA" and "EFA-PF".
(b) Add the following definitions to read in their entirety as follows (as a result
existing definitions are renumbered to keep the alphabetical order):
(i) "'INPREMA" means Instituto Nacional de Previsi6n del Magisterio, the
Recipient's nalional institute for teachers' pensions established under
Decree No. 1026 dated July 15, 1980 as amended thereof or any
successor there o."
(ii) "'INPREMA Law" means the Recipient's Legislative Decree No.247-
2011 dated December 14, 2011 and published in the Recipient's Official
Gazette on December 22, 2011."
(iii) "'PROHECO Affiliation Agreement" means Convenio Interinstitucional
de Afiliaci6n ae los Docentes del Programa Hondureiho de Educaci6n
Comunitaria erl Sistema de Previsi6n Social del Magisterio, the
agreement signed among SEFIN, SE and INPREMA, dated October 27,
2011, as said agreement may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Association."
(iv) "'PROHECO     Debt   Payment   Agreement"   means    Convenio
Interinstitucional de Cancelaci6n de la Deuda Contraida por los
Docentes del Programa Hondureiho de Educaci6n Comunitaria al
Sistema de Previsi6n Social del Magisterio, the agreement signed
between SEFIN and INPREMA to cancel the Recipient's debt to
INPREMA with respect to PROHECO teachers' and employers'
contributions, dated October 27, 2011 as said agreement may be
amended from lime to time with the agreement of the Association."


﻿-5-
(v) "'UGP" means Unidad de Gesti6n del Proyecto, the Recipient's Project
Management Unit within SE, referred to in Section I. A. 2 of Schedule 2
of this Agreement, or any other successor thereto."
(c) Amend the following definitions to read in their entirety as follows:
(i) "'Operating Costs" means in respect of the table in Section IV.A.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses incurred on
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and
insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem
costs related to the supervision of the Project, supervision costs and
salaries of locally contracted employees."
(ii) "'PEC" means Proyecto Educativo de Centro, a plan for school
improvement activities prepared annually by rural school management
entities."
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating two originals of
this Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below. The provisions set forth in this Amendment
Letter shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature upon receipt by the
Association of one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter. Please also note that the
approved Restructuring Paper dated Jure 28, 2012 will be disclosed on the Association's external
website.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAII DEVE       P    N    SSOCIATION
By
C. Felipe J  io
Direct r
Central America
Latin Amen ca and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC      H          S              7N
By:
th rized R    ntative    -
Name:   4141           V" --r4
Title:  I/~~~f o/2-ws
Date:2               .       /


