                    Document of
                 The World Bank


                                         Report No: 67572-HN




              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                      ON A

             PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                     OF THE

EDUCATION QUALITY, GOVERNANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL
            STRENGTHENING PROJECT

                 CREDIT 4381-HN

    APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON JANUARY 24, 2008

                     TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS


                   JUNE 28, 2012
Restructuring                                                                     Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level II
June 28, 2012

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name               P101218 - Education Quality, Governance and
                                Institutional Strengthening Project
Country                         Honduras
Task Team Leader                Juan Diego Alonso
Sector Manager/Director         Reema Nayar/Keith Hansen
Country Director                C. Felipe Jaramillo
Original Board Approval Date    January 24, 2008
Current Closing Date            June 30, 2013
Proposed Closing Date [if       N/A
applicable]
EA Category                     C
Revised EA Category             N/A
EA Completion Date
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Financing Plan (US$)
Source                                    Original              Revised
Borrower                                          1.03                     1.03
IBRD                                             15.37                    15.37


Total                                            16.40                    16.40


3. Borrower
      Organization             Department                    Location
Republic of Honduras                                 Tegucigalpa, Honduras


4. Implementing Agency
       Organization            Department                    Location
Ministry of Education                                Tegucigalpa, Honduras




                                      i
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 06/27/2012: 8.98
       Fiscal Year                   Annual                           Cumulative
FY12                                      0.07                            9.05
FY13                                      5.79                           14.84
                                         Total                           14.84


6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?               No
       Have these been approved by Bank management
       Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard                 No
policies?

7. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient to increase the coverage, quality,
accountability and governance of its basic education system.




                                              ii
                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AECO    Asociación Educativa Comunitaria (Community-Based Educational Association)
APF     Asociación de Padres de Familia (Parent-Teacher Associations)
CCEPREB Centro Comunitario de Educación Prebásica (Community-Based Center for Pre-
        Primary Education)
EGRA    Early Grade Reading Ability
EIB     Educación Intercultural Bilingüe (Intercultural Bilingual Education)
GIZ     Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German Society for International
        Cooperation)
INPREMA Instituto Nacional de Previsión del Magisterio (National Teachers’ Pension Fund
        Institute)
IRI     Intermediate Result Indicator
LLECE   Laboratorio Latinoamericano de Evaluación de Calidad Educativa (Latin
        American Lab for the Evaluation of Quality in Education)
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PEC     Proyecto Educativo de Centro (School Educational Project)
PER     Proyecto Educativo de Red (School Network Educational Project)
PIRLS   Progress in International Reading Literacy Survey
PROHECO Programa Hondureño de Educación Comunitaria (Honduran Program for
        Community-Based Education)
RFM     Results Framework and Monitoring
SEDUC   Secretaría de Educación (Ministry of Education)
SEFIN   Secretaría de Educación (Ministry of Finance)
SIAFI   Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera (Integrated System for the
        Financial Administration of Public Servants’ Payroll)
SIARHD  Sistema Integrado de Administración de Recursos Humanos Docentes (Integrated
        System for the Administration of Teachers Payroll)
TIMSS   Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
TSB     Transparency School Board
TU      Transparency Unit
UPEG        Unidad de Planificación y Evaluación de la Gestión (Unit of Planning and
            Management Evaluation)

                      Regional Vice President:    Hasan Tuluy
                             Country Director:    C. Felipe Jaramillo
               Sector Director/Sector Manager:    Keith Hansen/Reema Nayar
                            Task Team Leader:     Juan Diego Alonso



                                            iii
                                                    HONDURAS

           EDUCATION QUALITY, GOVERNANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL
                       STRENGTHENING PROJECT


                                                     P101218
                                                    CONTENTS


A. SUMMARY ............................................................................................................... 1
B. PROJECT STATUS ................................................................................................. 1
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 4
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING .................................. 16




                                                            iv
     EDUCATION QUALITY, GOVERNANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
                               PROJECT

                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER



 A. SUMMARY

1.      The major changes and rationale are as follows:

           a waiver of the withdrawal condition affecting Component 2 (Community Participation in
            School Management for Better Performance) insofar as the spirit behind the withdrawal
            condition - the reinstatement of pension benefits to teachers from the Honduran Program
            for Community-based Education (Programa Hondureño de Educación Comunitaria or
            PROHECO) - has been met;
           a revision of all the remaining dated legal covenants (Other Undertakings) in light of the
            set of administrative acts undertaken by the Government to regularize the social security
            situation of PROHECO teachers;
           a revision to Project activities to adjust them to: i) a shortened implementation period due
            to the 2009 “pause? and delay in satisfying the Project’s withdrawal conditions; ii)
            funding from other sources outside of the Project, and iii) the Government’s strategy;
           a revision to the indicators in the Results Framework and Monitoring to reflect the
            changes in Project activities;
           a revision in Project costs consistent with the revised Project activities and scope; and
           a reallocation of Credit proceeds across all 5 categories that reflect the changes in Project
            activities and costs.

 B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      The Project was approved on January 24, 2008, became effective on November 14, 2008, and
was restructured once before on March 22, 2011. It has 4 components: i) Enhancing and scaling up
interventions that address the education needs of the poor, ii) Community participation in school
management, iii) Governance and institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Education, and iv)
Project administration.

3.      The political turmoil following the removal from power of President Manuel Zelaya on June
28, 2009, led to an interruption in Project implementation, which lasted about 9 months. Component
2 and one of the subcomponents of Component 3 suffered significantly due to delays in satisfying
the withdrawal conditions related to these components.

4.     Component 1 has made significant progress in spite of the 9-month Project hiatus. It has
contributed to: (i) increased preschool coverage through the opening of approximately 600
Community-Based Centers for Pre-Primary Education (Centros Comunitarios de Educación Pre-
básica or CCEPREBs), including 138 that offer Intercultural Bilingual Education (Educación
Intercultural Bilingüe or EIB), and the training and payment of stipends for the 600 volunteers that

                                                    1
teach at these CCEPREBs; and (ii) increased support for PROHECO schools through the training of
over 3,000 PROHECO teachers, including PROHECO-EIB teachers, in the Multigrade-Teaching
Manual approved by the Ministry of Education (Secretaría de Educación or SEDUC) in 2010. In
addition, it has financed the preparation and distribution of packages of didactic materials in the
Natural and Social Sciences that have been adapted to the National Curriculum that was introduced
in 2005. Similar materials in Math and Spanish were prepared and distributed outside of the Project
with financing from the Common Fund of Education Donors (Fondo Común).

5.      A withdrawal condition for Component 2 was included in the Financing Agreement for the
Project, dated July 2, 2008, to help ensure that PROHECO teachers were covered by a pension
scheme following their removal, in February of 2006, from a pension plan provided by the National
Teachers’ Pension Fund Institute (Instituto Nacional de Previsión del Magisterio or INPREMA).
PROHECO teachers and their employers had made payments into the INPREMA pension plan since
March 1999, and these funds (L. 35,915,610) were held in an account in INPREMA even though
PROHECO teachers were unable to draw on them upon retirement or withdraw these funds and
move them to a different pension plan.

6.      There have been a number of important developments related to reinstating pension benefits
for PROHECO teachers. On October 27, 2011, two key Agreements were signed. First, an
Agreement on the Affiliation of PROHECO teachers to INPREMA, signed between the Ministry of
Finance (Secretaría de Finanzas or SEFIN), SEDUC, and INPREMA recognized PROHECO
teachers as legitimate affiliates to INPREMA, with full retroactive benefits since the creation of the
PROHECO Program in February 1999. Second, an Agreement on the Cancellation of the Debt of
PROHECO Teachers with INPREMA, signed between SEFIN and INPREMA, commits to
recognition and absorption, by the Government of debt to INPREMA to cover PROHECO teacher
pension benefits accrued since 1999, which the Government, through SEFIN, committed to pay
within a period of 8 years starting in 2012. Subsequently, Congress passed the Law of the National
Teachers’ Pension Fund Institute on December 13, 2011, which gives these two agreements legal
standing through Article 120. This law was published in La Gaceta, the official Legal Bulletin of the
Government, on December 22, 2011 and became effective on January 11, 2012. The Government is
implementing these agreements: a first installment of the outstanding debt, for an amount of L. 50
million (approximately, US$2.5 million), was paid on June 8, 2012 with National Bonds and
transferred to INPREMA. Efforts are underway to determine and pay the full amount of debt, within
the next 8 years, and identify and notify PROHECO teachers that are eligible for pension benefits of
their own individual situation with INPREMA (total amount contributed in terms of employee and
employer contributions through the recording of this outstanding long-term debt in SEFIN’s
accounting books). Furthermore, the employer and employee contributions of 2012 PROHECO
teachers have been also transferred to INPREMA for the first 5 months of salary (January through
May)

7.     Component 2 has not yet begun implementation pending satisfaction of the withdrawal
condition. However, with financing from the German Society for International Cooperation
(Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit or GIZ), some activities that were to be financed
by the Project have now been completed with funds outside of the Project. During 2010 and 2011, a
unified operational manual for developing and monitoring School Educational Projects (Proyectos
Educativos de Centro or PECs) and School Network Educational Projects (Proyectos Educativos de

                                                  2
Red or PERs) was officially approved by SEDUC. The PECs (PERs) are documents that are
produced annually by school councils (school network councils) identifying the priorities for each
school (school network). Manuals were distributed to all schools that belong in school networks in
the 6 Departments of intervention of GIZ (Santa Bárbara, Copán, Ocotepeque, Lempira, Intibucá and
La Paz) out of a total of 18 Departments. Furthermore, training on the preparation of the PECs and
PERs was also delivered in these same 6 Departments. Finally, a series of assessment and capacity
building activities related to school management systems, including the training of teachers in school
management for PROHECO schools that were in GIZ’s Departments of intervention, were also
carried out.

8.       Component 3 has contributed to i) improving Honduras’s educational statistics; and ii)
supporting the participation of Honduras in four key assessments of student learning: the 2008 Early
Grade Reading Abilities (EGRA) test; the 2010 Trends in International Mathematics and Science
Study (TIMSS); the 2010 Progress in International Reading Literacy Survey (PIRLS); and the 2011-
13 Latin American Lab for the Evaluation of Quality in Education (Laboratorio Latinoamericano de
Evaluación de la Calidad Educativa or LLECE). In addition, it supported the 2011 measurement of
the effective instructional time in the classroom using Stallings Method. Following the March 2011
Project restructuring, which provided a partial waiver of the disbursement condition for
Subcomponent 3.1, which supports the Integrated System for the Financial Administration of Public
Servants’ Payroll (Sistema Integrado de Administración de Recursos Humanos Docentes or
SIARHD), Component 3 has: i) started designing the web-based platform for the integrated
education management information system being constructed and buying the equipment for the 18
Departmental Offices of SEDUC; ii) supported a Census of EIB educational centers; and iii)
financed the strengthening of core line units of SEDUC that are in charge of information and
technology issues – the Unit of Information and Technology (Unidad de Infotecnología) – and core
statistical educational indicators – the Unit of Planning, and Management Evaluation (Unidad de
Planificación y Evaluación de la Gestión or UPEG)).

9.      The goals envisaged for Component 3 were reinforced by the creation of the Transparency
Unit (TU) within the auspices of SEDUC on February 20, 2008 (Ministerial Decree No.0647-SE-
08). The creation of this Unit, which had been mandated by the Law on Transparency and Access to
Public Information (June 20, 2007), has fostered a significant change in accountability and
governance in the education sector. The TU worked mostly as a unit for the provision of information
related to the education sector in the first two years (2008 and 2009), but increased its scope in 2010
by adding a grievance mechanism within its functions. In mid-2010, with financing from the GIZ,
the TU started deploying “Transparency School Boards? (Murales de Transparencia or TSBs) in all
schools within 6 of the 18 Departments in an effort to increase accountability of schools with the
help of the community. TSBs have been installed in a visible place in schools and have a clearly
labeled hotline to help Parent-Teacher Associations (Asociaciones de Padres de Familia or APFs) to
report any problems or irregularities at the school level.

10.    Recent legislation has reinforced all four key objectives of the Project (coverage, quality,
accountability and governance). The enactment by the National Congress of the Fundamental Law of
Education on January 16, 2012 – published in La Gaceta on February 22, 2012 and effective as of
March 13, 2012 - significantly upgraded the previous Organic Law for Education, which had been
passed in November 1966. In terms of coverage, it increased the number of compulsory years of

                                                  3
education from six to twelve, embedding now the kindergarten year as the first compulsory year of
schooling. Regarding quality, it created the National Council for Education, which will oversee the
quality of the National System of Education, the entity responsible for student assessment, teacher
assessment, and school accreditation and certification. In terms of accountability, the law further
ratifies the principles of the Law for the Strengthening of Public Education and Community
Participation –- approved on April 2, 2011 and published in La Gaceta on May, 25 2011, when it
became effective - by which community participation in school management, a core component of
this Project, is confirmed as a mandatory part of the organization/structure of the education system.
Finally, regarding governance, the law decentralizes responsibility within SEDUC, creating
departmental, municipal and district-based offices.

11. Regulations are being prepared to operationalize the creation of the National System of
Education which is expected to mainstream PROHECO teachers into the regular public system. In
addition, community participation is expected to be institutionalized through creation of community-
based councils for educational development at both the municipal and district level (for large
municipalities).

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

   Withdrawal condition and other undertakings

12.    The withdrawal condition 1(c), Schedule 2, Section IV.B. of the Financing Agreement,
signed on July 2, 2008, has been waived since INPREMA has now reinstated the pension rights of
PROHECO teachers, the L. 35,915,610 is reserved for PROHECO teachers within an account in
INPREMA, and a plan to fully fund PROHECO teachers’ INPREMA pensions is in place (see
paragraph 6 above). Therefore, there is no need to deposit the L. 35,915,610 into another account
given that the INPREMA account where the funds have been since 1999 is now satisfactory to the
Bank.

13.     The requirements included in the Other Undertakings Section of the Financing Agreement
have been modified as follows:

       Other undertaking 1: This undertaking has been amended with a new dated covenant since
        the determination of the entitlements of each PROHECO teacher has not been finished yet
        and is now expected to be completed by March 31, 2013.

       Other undertaking 2: This undertaking has been deleted from the amended Financing
        Agreement. Since INPREMA has been reinstated as the manager of the pension fund for
        PROHECO teachers, there is no need to hire a private firm as manager.

       Other undertaking 3: This undertaking has been amended with a new dated covenant and a
        new requirement now that the funds that were in the private banking system have been
        returned to the PROHECO account at INPREMA. In total an additional L. 62,272,658 has
        been deposited in the PROHECO account at INPREMA.



                                                 4
         Other undertaking 4: This undertaking has been amended since the Project is no longer in
          need of a private pension fund to administer the pensions of PROHECO teachers. The,
          amendment to this undertaking now reflects the renewed significance of the commitments
          made by the Government of Honduras under the two Agreements signed in October 2011,
          and referred to in paragraph 6.

   Components

14. The Restructuring Paper proposes to reduce the scope of Components 1 and 2 and increase the
    scope of Components 3 and 4, as follows:

Component 1: Enhancing and Scaling-Up Interventions that Address the Education Needs of the
Poor

         Sub-component 1B has been reduced in scope to focus only on didactic materials in Social
          Sciences and Natural Sciences, since packages in the other two subjects (Math and Spanish)
          for PROHECO schools have been funded by the Common Fund of Education Donors (Fondo
          Común).

Component 2: Community Participation in School Management

         Component 2 has been reduced in scope to eliminate activities already financed by other
          sources outside of the Project, account for the shortened implementation period, consolidate
          similar activities into one subcomponent to reduce repetition, and align activities with the
          Government’s strategy. A number of revisions have been made to Sub-components 2A and
          2B (see Table 1 below). Sub-component 3B is unchanged.

                                 Table 1: Changes to Sub-components 2A and 2B

        Original Financing      Change from Original Financing             Revised Financing Agreement
           Agreement                      Agreement
Sub-component 2A: Supporting the consolidation and institutionalization of the Recipient’s school management
system
Activity 2.A.1: Carrying out of Eliminated. There is no longer
a review of the Recipient’s need for these operational manuals
existing modalities of school due to the clear regulations on the
management to consolidate modality              for      community
them into operational manuals participation          in      school
for community participation in management            issued      to
school management                operationalize the Law for the
                                 Strengthening of Public Education
                                 and Community Participation.
Activity 2.A.2: Strengthening of Eliminated. Activity completed
school management systems and with resources outside of the
teaching staff management of the Project (funding from GIZ).
PROHECO




                                                       5
Activity 2.A.3: Strengthening      Revised. Two of the three sub-        Revised Activity 2.A.3 (now Activity 2.A.1):
of the PROHECO through: (a)        activities of the original activity   Strengthening of the PROHECO through: (a)
technical       assistance    to   were changed. The second sub-         technical    assistance     to   institutionalize
institutionalize PROHECO as a      activity was replaced by a new one    PROHECO as a regular program of the SE; (b)
regular program of the SE; (b)     because the recently approved Law     activities aimed at informing PROHECO
technical assistance to assess     of the National Teachers’ Pension     teachers about their individual pension
alternatives for improving labor   Fund Institute and Fundamental        benefits and rights; and (c) activities aimed at
income and benefits for            Law of Education now ensure that      strengthening the financial management and
PROHECO teachers; and (c)          these teachers have pension           recording capabilities at the AECO level.
activities        aimed       at   benefits equivalent to regular
strengthening the financial        public school teachers and are
management capabilities of         expected to soon be mainstreamed
AECOs.                             into the regular teaching career.
                                   The language for the third activity
                                   was also changed for the sake of
                                   clarity.
Activity 2.A.4: Evaluation and     Eliminated. Activity completed
strengthening of the Recipient’s   with resources outside of the
traditional            schools’    Project (funding from GIZ).
management system.
Activity 2.A.5: Strengthening      Revised. The language for this       Revised Activity 2.A.5 (now Activity 2.A.2):
the social management of the       activity was changed for the sake    The provision of training: (a) to the
Recipient’s school management      of precision. The activity was also  Recipient’s school management entities
entities to promote partnerships   divided into two sub-activities for  (AECOs, APFs, School Councils) to
with other institutions that       further clarity.                     strengthen social management processes and
support       the    Recipient’s                                        to promote partnerships with other institutions
education sector.                                                       that support the Recipient’s education sector;
                                                                        and (b) to rural school networks to strengthen
                                                                        their legal, administrative, technical and
                                                                        pedagogical skills for school management.
   Sub-component 2B: Strengthening the Recipient’s school planning capacity and resource allocation for quality
                                                       education
Activity 2.B.1: Provision of      Eliminated. Activity completed
technical assistance to support   with resources outside of the
the implementation of a single    Project (funding from GIZ).
educational model for the
PECs.
Activity 2.B.2: Provision of      Revised. This activity has been Revised Activity 2.B.2 (new Activity 2.B.1):
technical assistance to teachers, revised for the sake of clarity and Provision of training to school management
parents and directors in rural    to add further detail. It is expected entities within the rural school networks in the
school networks to improve the to be implemented in only the 12 preparation and monitoring of outcomes of
preparation of PERs               Departments not already covered PECs and PERs.
                                  by GIZ resources.
Activity 2.B.3: Development Revised. This activity has been Revised Activity 2.B.3 (new Activity 2.B.2):
and      implementation        of revised for the sake of clarity and Distribution of operational manuals for the
monitoring and school feedback to add further detail. It is expected preparation and monitoring of outcomes of
systems     for    the     PEC’s to be implemented in only the 12 PECs and PERs.
implementation outcomes           Departments not already covered
                                  by GIZ resources.




                                                           6
Activity 2.B.4: Development of       Eliminated. Activity completed
training     programs      for       under Component 1, since all
PROHECO teachers                     training for PROHECO teachers
                                     was undertaken synergistically at
                                     the same time. Development of
                                     training programs was financed
                                     with funds outside of the Project
                                     (local funds).
Activity 2.B.5: Strengthening        Eliminated. A revised version of
of input and educational             this activity is expected to be
resource allocation strategies at    financed under a revised version of
the     school      level     and    the activities in Sub-component
development       of     efficient   2.A.
distribution    and     reception
systems        that       include
community participation
Activity 2.B.6: Strengthening        Eliminated. A revised version of
of the allocation and settlement     this activity is expected to be
system for financial transfers to    financed under a revised version of
school management modalities         the activities in Sub-component
                                     2.A.

Component 3: Governance and Institutional Strengthening of SEDUC

        Sub-component 3.A.1 has been increased in scope in line with the set of activities originally
         envisioned. It would finance the deployment of TSBs in the remaining 12 Departments of the
         country, building on those already launched in 6 Departments with funding from GIZ,
         starting with 3 municipalities per Department in the year 2012. It would also finance: i) data
         collection for updating the database on school infrastructure known as Plan Maestro (Master
         Plan); ii) a consultancy to evaluate human resources in SEDUC and its departmental
         branches and propose a new organizational chart for SEDUC under the new decentralized
         structure; and iii) a series of consultancies to provide technical support to SEDUC’s key
         authorities for strengthening their capacity to implement the Project.

Component 4: Project Administration

        This component has been increased in scope since the Project has assumed financing of staff
         that are critical to the operation of the Project, but for which funding was not originally set
         aside.

   Institutional Arrangements

10.    Instead of an EFA Coordination Unit, administrative and fiduciary aspects of Project
administration are being handled by a Project Management Unit that has been set up specifically for
the Project. This arrangement was proposed by the Government and was found satisfactory to the
Bank from a technical and fiduciary standpoint.




                                                             7
   Results/Indicators

15.    The original Results Framework and Monitoring (RFM) table presented 6 Project
Development Objective (PDO)-level results indicators and 16 Intermediate Result Indicators (IRIs).
Under the proposed changes to the RFM, there would be 4 PDO-level results indicators and 14 IRIs.
Also, targets for some indicators have been updated based on progress to date and revised
expectations in line with the restructured Project. The revised RFM is in Annex 1.

16.     PDO-level Indicators. Under the restructured Project, there would be 4 PDO-level
Indicators: 2 indicators with revised targets to measure progress toward the coverage and quality
objectives, 1 revised indicator to measure achievement of the accountability objectives that is a
merger of 2 original indicators, and 1 revised indicator to measure achievement of the governance
objective. One original PDO-level indicator that had provided an additional measure of progress
toward the accountability objective has been dropped.

    Coverage

    PDO-level indicator 1:

       Continued Indicator: Increased preschool enrollment in targeted areas
           o Original target: 53 percent
           o Revised target: 65 percent

    The target has been revised because of improved data on population projections, which are used
    in the denominator of enrollment rates.

    Quality

    PDO-level indicator 2:

       Continued Indicator: Increased 6th- grade gross completion rates in PROHECO schools
           o Original target:45 percent
           o Revised target: 98 percent

    The target has changed because of improved data generated under the Project. The original target
    had been set on the basis of averages at the national level.

    Accountability

    PDO-level indicator 3:

       Original Indicator: Reduction in teacher absenteeism in targeted regions.
       Original Indicator: Compliance with the official school calendar in targeted regions.
       Revised Indicator: Percentage of PROHECO schools that report, through the PROHECO
        module of SEDUC’s web portal, information about enrollment, teacher absenteeism and
        number of school days.

                                                 8
   The accountability indicator has been revised by building on two of the original accountability
   indicators. The web portal of SEDUC is expected to have a “PROHECO schools? module.
   AECOs will report, on a monthly basis and through the web, on enrollment, the number of days
   each individual teacher was present or not at school, and the number of days there was no school,
   be it for exogenous factors (torrential rains) or because a teacher was absent.

      Dropped Indicator: Increased proportion of schools who involve parents in social audits of
       the schools using the 60-words-per-minute fluency test in second grade in targeted areas

   This indicator, which was meant to be an indicator of accountability to parents, has been
   dropped. It had been originally thought of as a measure of social audit/accountability of the
   quality of schools, by having parents who have 2 nd grade students test their children’s skills in
   reading through the Early Grade Reading Abilities (EGRA) test, which tests the number of
   words a 2nd-grade student can read in a minute. This test, however, was never meant to be
   administered by parents since it involves some training that is not amenable to illiterate parents
   or those with limited education.

   Governance

   PDO-level indicator 4:

      Original Indicator: Development of a balanced scorecard for the national, departmental and
       school level and its distribution to all departments and schools.
      Revised Indicator: Increased proportion of complaints submitted to SEDUC’s Transparency
       Unit made through Transparency School Boards.

   The original indicator has been revised since with the introduction of Transparency School
   Boards (TSBs), schools have now a stronger system for improving the governance of the system
   and its grievance redress mechanism.

11.     Intermediate Results Indicators. Under the restructured Project, there would be 14 IRIs. Of
the original 16 IRIs, 2 would be unchanged, 14 would be consolidated into 9 revised IRIs. Three
new IRIs would be added. The target for one of the two unchanged IRIs has been revised.

Component 1: Enhancing and Scaling Up Interventions that Address the Education Needs of the
  Poor

   IRI 1:

      Original Indicator: Number of new CCEPREBs opened.
      Original Indicator: Number of CCEPREBs equipped with fungible materials.
      Revised Indicator: Number of new CCEPREBs opened and functioning with adequate school
       supplies.




                                                 9
This indicator is a result of the merger of two original IRIs, with the clarification that not only
would the Project aim at opening CCEPREBs, but also have them operating by the end of the
Project.

IRI 2:

   Original Indicator: Number of new CCEPREB volunteers trained.

This indicator has remained unchanged, and so have its targets.

IRI 3:

   Original Indicator: Number of PROHECO schools receiving the packages of didactic
    material.
   Original Indicator: Packages of didactic material adapted to the National Curriculum for the
    first two cycles of basic education in the areas of Math, Spanish, Social Sciences and Natural
    Sciences.
   Original Indicator: Teacher manual/toolkit for the usage of the package of didactic materials
    designed.
   Revised Indicator: Number of PROHECO schools receiving packages of didactic material
    adapted to the National Curriculum, including textbooks and teacher workbooks, in Natural
    and Social Sciences.

This indicator is a result of the merger of three original IRIs, with the elimination of the didactic
materials for Math and Spanish consistent with the revised Project description.

IRI 4:

   Original Indicator: Number of PROHECO teachers trained in active-participatory
    methodologies and in the usage of multi-grade didactic materials.
   Revised Indicator: Number of PROHECO teachers trained in the usage of multi-grade
    didactic materials.

This indicator would be revised to reflect that the pilot training in active-participatory
methodologies would not be expanded under the Project to include PROHECO teachers because
of a decision by the authorities of the Ministry of Education that do not consider this training
relevant any longer.

IRI 5:

   New Indicator: Number of beneficiaries (number), of which female (percentage).

This indicator, a core indicator, would be added to reflect the number of total beneficiaries
(CCEPREB volunteers, PROHECO teachers, and PROHECO students) as a result of the
interventions (envisaged activities) of the Project.


                                               10
Component 2: Community Participation in School Management

   IRI 6:

      New Indicator: Number of workshops organized to disseminate information related to the
       PROHECO teachers' pension benefits and rights.

   This indicator would be added consistent with the revised activities for Component 2.

   IRI 7:

      Original Indicator: Promoters and coordinators of PROHECO teachers in financial
       management and recording capabilities at the AECO level.

   This indicator has remained unchanged, but its targets were changed in years 3 to 5 of the Project
   (2010-2012) in order to correct a mistake in the RFM of the PAD.

   IRI 8:

      Original Indicator: Operational Manual on community-based school management revised
       and distributed to all AECOs.
      Original Indicator: PEC templates consolidated into a single official template applicable to
       all schools.
      Revised Indicator: Number of operational manuals on the preparation and monitoring of
       PECs and PERs distributed to school networks in the 12 targeted departments.

   This indicator is the result of a merger of two original IRIs consistent with the funding, by GIZ,
   of the preparation of the operational manual on the development and monitoring of PECs and
   PERs, drawing on the basic principles of community-based school management, and their
   distribution to all school networks (including all AECOs within school networks) in the 6
   Departments (of 18) targeted by them. It reflects the Project’s targeting of the other 12
   Departments in Honduras.

   IRI 9:

      Original Indicator: AECO members trained in the preparation of PEC and PER.
      Revised Indicator: Number of school networks with PERs (that draw on school PECs)
       developed in the 12 targeted departments.

   This indicator would be revised consistent with funding, by GIZ, of all AECO members located
   in schools belonging to school networks in the 6 Departments of intervention of GIZ; and that
   schools in these Departments have already developed PERs. It reflects the Project’s targeted
   training and support to the development of PECs and PERs in the other 12 Departments in
   Honduras.



                                                11
   IRI 10:

      Original Indicator: Managerial information systems developed and implemented in targeted
       schools and networks.
      Original Indicator: Participatory school management monitoring and evaluation system to
       monitor school, teacher and student performance developed and implemented in targeted
       schools and networks.
      Revised Indicator: Integrated system for community-based school management developed
       and implemented in all school networks in the 12 targeted Departments and linked to the
       central level web-based Education Management Information System.

   This indicator is the result of the merger of two original IRIs because both original indicators
   focused on: i) information systems; ii) the development and implementation of the system; and
   iii) school networks and the corresponding schools that belong in these networks. Since the
   system will be an integrated system, not two different ones, one indicator is sufficient. It also
   reflects that this activity will be financed by the Project only in the 12 Departments that are
   targeted by the Project (and not those 6 covered by GIZ funding).

Component 3: Governance and Institutional Strengthening of SEDUC

   IRI 11:

      Original Indicator: Availability of information in a web-based technological platform for
       monitoring performance.
      Revised Indicator: Development and implementation of a web-based integrated education
       management information system.

   This indicator would be revised to clarify that it refers to the integrated education management
   information system being financed by the Project.

   IRI 12:

      New Indicator: Number of schools with Transparency School Boards deployed in the 12
       departments targeted by the Project.

   This indicator would be added in line with the creation of the TU and the planned deployment of
   TSBs in all 12 Departments targeted.

   IRI 13:

      Original Indicator: HRM system strengthened and SIARHD decentralized to departments.
      Revised Indicator: HRM system strengthened and SIARHD fully migrated to the SIAFI and
       fully decentralized to all 18 departments of the country.

   This indicator would be revised to clarify that: i) the Project continues to support migration from
   SIARHD to the Integrated System for the Financial Administration of Public Servants’ Payroll

                                                 12
    (Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera or SIAFI) and ii) the new system would be
    decentralized to all 18 departments.

    IRI 14:

       Original Indicator: SINECE personnel trained in using information from learning assessment
        to monitor performance, feedback into policy making and results dissemination.
       Revised Indicator: Staff from DIGECE and other relevant technical units of SEDUC trained
        in using information from learning assessment to monitor performance, feedback into policy
        making and results dissemination.

    This indicator would be revised to clarify that SEDUC staff, who are responsible for the National
    System for the Evaluation of Quality in Education (Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de la
    Calidad or SINECE), are being trained through the Project. This includes staff from SEDUC's
    General Directorate for the Evaluation of Quality in Education (Dirección General de
    Evaluación de la Calidad Educativa or DIGECE).

   Financing

Costs

12.    The changes in Project components require changes to Project costs being financed by the
Bank to reflect the decrease in scope of Components 1 and 2 and increase in scope of Components 3
and 4. The Government had originally planned to finance, through counterpart funds, activities
across all components. However, government financing has been restricted to the payment of
stipends for school volunteers under Component 1. Changes to Project costs are shown in Table 2
below.




                                                 13
                                            Table 2: Project Costs
                                                                                    (US$m)
                  Components                                       Current                          Revised
                                                           Bank        Counterpart           Bank      Counterpart
1) Enhancing and Scaling Up Interventions that
                                                           6.30              0.73            5.76         1.20
Address the Education Needs of the Poor
  1.1) Coverage Expansion for Preschool
                                                           3.37              0.70            3.17         1.20
      Education in Rural Areas
 1.2) Quality Improvement in Multi-grade
      PROHECO Schools through Teacher                      2.94              0.03            2.59             -
      Training and Provision of Materials
2) Community Participation in School                                                                          -
                                                           3.53              0.06            1.54
Management
 2.1) Consolidation and Institutionalization of the                                                           -
      School Management System
                                                           1.63              0.04            0.38
 2.2) School Planning and Resources for Quality                                                               -
      Education
                                                           1.39              0.02            0.69
 2.3) School Management and Education                                                                         -
      Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                           0.51               -              0.47
3) Governance and Institutional Strengthening                                                                 -
                                                           4.85              0.24            5.46
of SEDUC
 3.1) Information for Improved Performance and                                                                -
                                                           4.15              0.24            3.24
       Greater Accountability
 3.2) National System of Assessment of Learning                               -                               -
       Outcomes
                                                           0.27                              1.19
 3.3) Human Resources Management and                                          -                               -
       Evaluation
                                                           0.43                              1.03
4) Project Administration                                   0.68              -           2.08                -
Total                                                      15.37             1.03        14.84            1.20

13.     There are differences between the original amounts allocated for the Project and the revised
amounts under the Restructured Project, for both the Bank-financed and the counterpart-financed
portions. In the case of the former, differences are due to variations in the exchange rate between
Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) and the US Dollar. The exchange rate at Project approval was
US$1.57/SDR, whereas it is, as of June 27, 2012, US$1.51/SDR. In the case of the latter, the
contributions made by the Government of Honduras reached, as of today, a total of US$1.2 million,
when the amounts contributed in Lempiras are converted into US dollars at the valid exchange rate
at the moment of the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Education.




                                                      14
Reallocation of Loan Proceeds

14.    The changes in the Project components and costs require a reallocation among categories as
shown in the Table 3 below.

                                      Table 3: Disbursement Table
            Category of Expenditure                    Allocation (SDR)                %
                                                                                    Financing
                    Category                      Original           Revised
      (1) Goods, consultant’s services,
          Non-consultant services and             4,000,000         3,804,000           100
          Training for Part 1 of the Project
      (2) Goods, consultant’s services,
          Non-consultant services and             2,250,000         1,016,000           100
          Training for Part 2 of the Project
      (3) Goods, consultant’s services,
          Non-consultant services and
                                                  2,650,000         2,140,000           100
          Training and Operating Costs for
          Part 3.A of the Project
      (4) Goods, consultant’s services,
          Non-consultant services and
          Training for Part 3 of the Project       450,000          1,465,000           100
          other than those covered by
          Category (3) above
      (5) Goods, consultant’s services,
          Training and Operating Costs for
          Part 4 of the Project                    450,000          1,375,000           100


      TOTAL AMOUNT                                9,800,000         9,800,000           100

15.     In addition, the definition of Operating Costs in the Financing Agreement will be clarified.
The phrase “stipends for school volunteers under Part 1.A. of the Project,? will be deleted. This
change is necessary to clarify that stipends for school volunteers are being paid only by counterpart
funds and not with IDA funds, and that Operating Costs are financed only under Part 3A and Part 4
of the Project. The reference to Part 3.A and Part 4 of the Project will also be deleted since the table
above is clear as to which categories of expenditures will include operating costs. The definition
would be:

             “Operating Costs? means in respect of the table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule
             2 to this Agreement, the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
             implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle operation
             and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration
             costs, utilities, travel and per diem costs related to the supervision of the
             Project, supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted employees.

                                                  15
                                                       ANNEX 1: Results Framework and Monitoring

                    HONDURAS: EDUCATION QUALITY, GOVERNANCE, & INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING


Project Development Objective (PDO): The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient to increase the coverage, quality, accountability and governance of its basic
education system.
                            D=Dro                                                       Cumulative Target Values
                            pped
                            C=Con                                                                                                                      Data
 PDO Level                                                                                                                                                           Responsibil
                    Core




                            tinue      Unit of                                                                                           Frequen      Source/
  Results                   N=
                                                      Baseline                                                    2011                                               ity for Data
                                       Measure                           2008         2009           2010                                   cy       Methodolog
 Indicators                 New                                                                                 (Actual)      2012                                    Collection
                                                                       (Actual)     (Actual)       (Actual)                                              y
                           R=Revised
                                                                                                                                         Annual
Indicator One                                                                                                                             evaluat                       Unit of
(Coverage):                                                                                                                               ions                         Planning
                                                                                                                                                     Administrati
Increased                              Percenta                                                                                          Semi-                           and
                              C                         56.5             56.5          58.4          61.5         63.5        65.0                   ve Records
preschool                                 ge                                                                                              annual                     Managemen
                                                                                                                                                     of SEDUC
enrollment in                                                                                                                             supervi                    t Evaluation
targeted areas                                                                                                                            sion                        of SEDUC
                                                                                                                                          reports
Indicator Two                                                                                                                            Annual
(Quality):                                                                                                                                evaluat
Increased 6th-                                                                                                                            ions
                                                                         Not                                                                         Administrati    PROHECO
grade      gross                       Percenta                                       Not                                                Semi-
                              C                     Not available      availabl                      82.3         96.2        98.0                   ve Records       Unit of
completion                                ge                                        available                                             annual
                                                                          e                                                                          of SEDUC         SEDUC
rates         in                                                                                                                          supervi
PROHECO                                                                                                                                   sion
schools                                                                                                                                   reports
Indicator
(Accountabilit                                                                                                                           Annual
y): Increased                                                                                                                             consult
proportion of                                                                                                                             ant
schools     who                                                                                                                           evaluat
                                                                                                                                                     Administrati
involve parents                        Percenta   No school                                                                               ions
                              D                                            0           10             15           20          25                    ve Records         UPEG
in social audits                          ge      currently                                                                              Semi-
                                                                                                                                                     of SEDUC
of the schools                                                                                                                            annual
using the 60                                                                                                                              supervi
words        per                                                                                                                          sion
minute fluency                                                                                                                            reports
test in second

                                                                                       16
grade         in
targeted areas

Indicator
Three
(Accountabilit
y):
Percentage of
PROHECO
                                                                                                                            Annual
schools     that
                                                                                                                             evaluat
report through
                                                                                                                             ions
the PROHECO                                                                                                                            Administrati   PROHECO
                                  Percenta                                                                                  Semi-
module        of           R                        0              0           0            0           0         50                   ve Records       Unit of
                                     ge                                                                                      annual
SEDUC’s web                                                                                                                            of SEDUC        SEDUC
                                                                                                                             supervi
portal
                                                                                                                             sion
information
                                                                                                                             reports
about
enrollment,
teacher
absenteeism
and number of
school days
Indicator
Four
(Governance):
                                                                                                                            Annual
Increased
                                                                                                                             evaluat
proportion of
                                                                                                                             ions
complaints                                                                                                                             Administrati   Transparenc
                                  Percenta                                                                                  Semi-
submitted     to           R                        0              0           0            0          20         40                   ve Records      y Unit of
                                     ge                                                                                      annual
SEDUC’s                                                                                                                                of SEDUC         SEDUC
Transparency                                                                                                                 supervi
                                                                                                                             sion
Unit      made
                                                                                                                             reports
through
Transparency
School Boards.

                                                        INTERMEDIATE RESULTS INDICATORS (IRIs)

Intermediate Result (Component One): Enhancing and Scaling Up Interventions that Address the Education Needs of the Poor
IRI 1: Number                                                                                                               Annual
                                                                                                                                                      Pre-School
of new                                                                                                                       evaluat   Administrati
                                                                                                                                                      Education
CCEPREBs                 R       Number         0          100            200              400         600                   ions      ve Records
                                                                                                                                                        Unit of
opened and                                                                                                         800      Semi-     of SEDUC
                                                                                                                                                       SEDUC
functioning                                                                                                      (300 of     annual

                                                                              17
with adequate                                                          which are      supervi
school supplies                                                          EIB)         sion
                                                                                      reports
                                                                                     Annual
                                                                                      evaluat
IRI 2: Number
                                                                                      ions                     Pre-School
of new                                                                                          Administrati
                                                                                     Semi-                    Education
CCEPREB            C   Number   0   100     300      600       900      1,200                   ve Records
                                                                                      annual                     Unit of
volunteers                                                              (450 of                 of SEDUC
                                                                                      supervi                   SEDUC
trained                                                                which are
                                                                         EIB)         sion
                                                                                      reports
IRI 3: Number
of PROHECO
schools
receiving the
packages of
                                                                                     Annual
didactic
                                                                                      evaluat
material
                                                                                      ions
adapted to the                                                                                  Administrati   PROHECO
                                                                        2,099        Semi-
National           R   Number   0    0      525     1,050     1,575    (including               ve Records       Unit of
                                                                                      annual
Curriculum,                                                                all                  of SEDUC        SEDUC
                                                                                      supervi
including                                                              PROHEC
                                                                         O- EIB       sion
textbooks and
teacher                                                                 schools)      reports
workbooks, in
Natural and
Social
Sciences.
                                                                                     Annual
IRI 4: Number                                                           4,152         evaluat
of PROHECO                                                                (this       ions
teachers                                                                includes                Administrati   PROHECO
                                                                                     Semi-
trained in the     R   Number   0    0     1,038    2,076     3,114        all                  ve Records       Unit of
usage of multi-                                                        PROHEC         annual    of SEDUC        SEDUC
                                                                         O-IBE        supervi
grade didactic
                                                                       teachers)      sion
materials
                                                                                      reports
IRI 5: Number                                                                        Annual
of beneficiaries                                                                      evaluat
(number), of                                                                          ions
                                                                                                Administrati   PROHECO
which female                        100    34,328   68,656   102,984   137,312       Semi-
                   N   Number   0                                                               ve Records       Unit of
(percentage)                        (50)    (50)     (50)      (50)      (50)         annual
                                                                                                of SEDUC        SEDUC
                                                                                      supervi
                                                                                      sion
                                                                                      reports

                                               18
                            Intermediate Result (Component Two): Community Participation in School Management
IRI 6: Number of
workshops                                                                                                        Annual
organized        to                                                                                               evaluat
disseminate                                                                                                       ions
                                                                                                                            Administrati   PROHECO
information                                                                                                      Semi-
related to the        N   Number         0          0            0              0          0         54                     ve Records      Unit of
                                                                                                                  annual
PROHECO                                                                                                                     of SEDUC        SEDUC
                                                                                                                  supervi
teachers' pension                                                                                                 sion
benefits and rights                                                                                               reports

IRI 7: Promoters
and coordinators                                                                                                 Annual
of     PROHECO                                                                                                    evaluat
program trained in                                                                                                ions
                                                                                                                            Administrati   PROHECO
financial                                                                                                        Semi-
management and        C   Number         0          0           220            220        220        220                    ve Records      Unit of
                                                                                                                  annual    of SEDUC        SEDUC
recording                                                                                                         supervi
capabilities at the                                                                                               sion
AECO level                                                                                                        reports

IRI 8: Number of
operational                                                                                                      Annual
manuals on the                                                                                                    evaluat
preparation and                                                                                                   ions
                                                                                                                            Administrati   Modernizati
monitoring      of                                                                                               Semi-
                      R   Number         0          0            0              0          0        1,500                   ve Records     on Unit of
PECs and PERs                                                                                                     annual    of SEDUC        SEDUC
distributed     to                                                                                                supervi
school networks                                                                                                   sion
in the 12 targeted                                                                                                reports
departments
IRI 9: Number of                                                                                                 Annual
school networks                                                                                                   evaluat
with PERs (that                                                                                                   ions
                                                                                                                            Administrati   Modernizati
draw on school                                                                                                   Semi-
                      R   Number         0          0            0              0          0         150                    ve Records     on Unit of
PECs) developed                                                                                                   annual
                                                                                                                            of SEDUC        SEDUC
in      the     12                                                                                                supervi
departments                                                                                                       sion
targeted.                                                                                                         reports




                                                                     19
IRI 10: Integrated
system          for
community-based
school
management
                                                                                                                                   Annual
developed      and
                                                                                                                                    evaluat
implemented in
                                                                                                                                    ions
all         school                                                                                                                            Administrati   Modernizati
                                                                                                                                   Semi-
networks in the 12     R       Number               0          0            0                 0             0            1                    ve Records     on Unit of
departments                                                                                                                         annual    of SEDUC        SEDUC
                                                                                                                                    supervi
targeted       and
                                                                                                                                    sion
linked to the
                                                                                                                                    reports
central level web-
based Education
Management
Information
System

                      Intermediate Result (Component Three): Governance and Institutional Strengthening of the Ministry of Education

IRI            11:                                                                                       System        System
                                                                                                          fully          fully     Annual
Development and                                                                              System
                                                                                                        operation    operationa     evaluat
implementation of                                                                             design
                              Qualitati                                                                  al with        l with      ions
a       web-based                          No system                 System design and a     complet                                          Administrati
                                 ve                                                                      updated      updated      Semi-
integrated             R                   currently in             prototype in operation    ed and
                                                                                                        informati    informatio
                                                                                                                                              ve Records       UPEG
                              descripti       place                   and/or evaluation        fully                                annual
education                                                                                                on from       n from                 of SEDUC
                                 on                                                          operatio                               supervi
management                                                                                               50% of       100% of
information                                                                                     nal                                 sion
                                                                                                        departme     departmen
                                                                                                                                    reports
system                                                                                                     nts             ts
IRI 12: Number                                                                                                                     Annual
of schools with                                                                                                                     evaluat
Transparency                                                                                                                        ions
                                                                                                                                              Administrati   Transparenc
School     Boards                                                                                                                  Semi-
                       N       Number           0          0                    0                 0         0         6,194                   ve Records      y Unit of
deployed in the 12                                                                                                                  annual
targeted                                                                                                                                      of SEDUC         SEDUC
                                                                                                                                    supervi
departments                                                                                                                         sion
                                                                                                                                    reports
IRI 13: HRM                               Undifferentia             Initial HRM             50% of                                Annual
                                          ted lines of               strengthening at        departm    100% of                                                General
system                                                                                                                              evaluat
                              Qualitati   authority,                 departmental level      ent with   departme     100% of                                 Directorate
strengthened and                                                                                                                    ions      Administrati
SIARHD       fully     R
                              ve          responsibility            SIARHD/SIAFI            SIARH      nts          SIARHD
                                                                                                                                   Semi-     ve Records
                                                                                                                                                             of Teaching
                              descripti   , information              interface completed     D and      integrated   migrated                                  Human
migrated to the                           and execution                                      HRM        in           to SIAFI       annual    of SEDUC
                              on                                     and ethnic and                                                                           Resources
SIAFI and fully                           across the                 language variables      processe   SIARHD                      supervi
                                                                                                                                                             of SEDUC
decentralized to                          central level              included                s                                      sion


                                                                                20
all 18 departments                 and between         Valid system of    integrate               reports
of the country                     central and         payroll integrity   d
                                   departmental
                                   levels


IRI 14: Staff from
DIGECE          and
other     relevant
technical units of                                                                                Annual
SEDUC trained in                                                                                   evaluat
                                                                                                                             DIGECE
using information                                                                                  ions
                                                                                                             Administrati      and
from      learning                                                                                Semi-
                      R   Number        0         0              0            0        10   50               ve Records     Modernizati
assessment       to                                                                                annual
                                                                                                             of SEDUC       on Units of
monitor                                                                                            supervi
                                                                                                                             SEDUC
performance,                                                                                       sion
feedback       into                                                                                reports
policy making and
results
dissemination




                                                                  21
