The World Bank                                    1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION             U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
OFFICIAL'
I DOCUMENTS              April 11, 2014
Mr. Wilfredo Cerrato
Minister
Ministry of Finance
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Republic of Honduras
Re: Honduras: JSDF Grant for Piloting New Forms of Community-administered
Education for Socially Vulnerable Communities Project (Grant No. TF094670).
Second Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Dear Mr. Cerrato,
We refer to the Grant Agreement between the International Development
Association (the "World Bank") and the Republic of Honduras (the "Recipient") dated
March 26, 2010 and countersigned on April 12, 2010, with respect to the above-captioned
Project, as amended as of March 15, 2011 ("Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this
amendment letter (the "Amendment Letter") and not defined herein have the meaning
ascribed to them in the Agreement.
In accordance with the letter received from your Ministry, dated April 8, 2014,
wherein a request is made to amend the Agreement, we are pleased to inform you that the
World Bank agrees to your request and consequently proposes to amend the Agreement
as follows:
1.    Section 1.02. of Article I to the Annex to the Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:
(a)   The following definition is hereby deleted (and the existing definitions are
consequently renumbered): "Advisory Committee".
(b)   The following definition is added, placed in alphabetical order, (and the
existing definitions are consequently renumbered to keep the alphabetical
order) to read as follows:
"Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the oversight Unit as
referred to in Section 2.03 (e) of the Annex to this Agreement. Therefore
throughout this Agreement wherein a sentence reads "SE" it shall read
"PMU".


﻿-2-
JSDF TF094670
2.    Part I (b) (i) of Section 2.01. of the annex to the Agreement is hereby deleted:
"(b)(i) The carrying out of training for current and new teachers in
Selected Schools, with appropriate pedagogical and subject-specific
skills."
3.    Part III (d) of Section 2.01. of the Annex to the Agreement is hereby incorporated:
"(d)  Provision of financing for the Project Management Unit."
4.    Section 2.02. of the Annex to the Agreement is hereby amended to read in its
entirety as follows:
"2.02. Project Execution  Generally.  The Recipient declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the Recipient,
through the PMU within the Ministry of Education, shall carry out the
Project in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Article II of the Standard
Conditions; (b) the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 ("Anti-Corruption Guidelines"); (c) this
Article II; (d) the ESMF; (e) the respective IPP; (f) the respective EMP;
and (g) the Operational Manual."
5.    Section 2.03. (e) of the Annex to the Agreement is hereby amended to read:
"(e)  The Recipient shall maintain throughout Project implementation a
PMU with personnel, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
World Bank and as set forth in the Operational Manual; said PMU shall
have a minimum of 6 Recipient's dedicated staff to work with Project
implementation."
6.    Section 2.03. of the Agreement is hereby amended to incorporate a new sub-
paragraph (f) to read as follows:
"(f)  The Recipient shall ensure that progress reports for the Project are
prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than 30 days after the
completion of each calendar semester, covering the semester, in form and
substance satisfactory to the World Bank."
7.    Paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of Section 2.05 (a) of the Annex to the Agreement are
hereby amended to incorporate the new guidelines and shall read as follows:
"(i)  Section I of the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and
Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011 ("Procurement Guidelines"), in the
case of goods, works and non-consulting services;


﻿-3-
JSDF TF094670
(ii)   Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011 ("Consultant Guidelines") in the case of
consultants' services; and
(iii)  the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in
the procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for
the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.18. of the Procurement Guidelines and
paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines ("Procurement Plan")."
8.    Section 2.05. (d) of the Annex to the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
"(d)  Definitions.  The capitalized terms used in the following
paragraphs of this Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods
of review by the World Bank of particular contracts, refer to the corresponding
method described in Sections II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or
Sections II, III, IV and V of the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be."
9.    The table on Section 3.01. of the Annex to the Agreement is hereby amended to
reallocate funds among the disbursement Categories to read as follows:
Amount of the Grant           Percentage of
Allocated             Expenditures to be
Category            (expressed in U.S. $)          Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods                        152,867                    100%
(2) Consultants' services       309,739                     100%
(3) Training and                  27,165                    100%
Workshops
(4) Works                       858,049                     100%
(5) Sub-grants                  296,543                     100%
(6) Operating Costs              69,937                     100%
TOTAL AMOUNT                   1,714,300         I
The provisions of this Amendment Letter shall become effective upon:
(a)   the receipt by the World Bank of a countersigned copy of this Amendment
Letter; and


﻿-4-
JSDF TF094670
(b)   the receipt by the World Bank of an updated Operational Manual
incorporating the necessary modifications as a result of the amendments set forth
in this Amendment Letter, and satisfactory to the World Bank.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and
dating this letter in the spaces provided below. This Amendment Letter shall be executed
in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. All other provisions of the
Agreement, except as amended through this letter shall remain in full force and effect.
Please also note that the Restructuring Paper dated April 11, 2014 will be
disclosed on the World Bank's external website.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATION      L DE    L  P  ENT    SSOCIATION
Felipe aa illo
Dire to
Central Ame * a
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF HONDU
By:
uthorize t      nt   UR
Name:-
Title:  ________________
Date:


