LOAN NUMBER 2194 NE
Loan Agreement
(Deconcentration Program for the Mexico City Region
Preparation Project)
between
INTERFATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
Dated                  /            , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2194 HE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       le   C                 , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
PUBLICOS, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Comisi6n" means Comisi'n de Conurbacion del Centro del
Pals of the Guarantor established by Presidential Decree of
October 5, 1976, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(b)  "Central Conurbation Zone" means an area encompassing
the Federal District and portions of the states of Hidalgo,
Mexico, Morelos, Puebla and Tlaxcala as set forth in the
Guarantor's Presidential Decree of October 5, 1976; and
(c)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the Comisi6n of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or


﻿-2-
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million two hundred thousand dollars ($9,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.04. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to one hundred
thirty-five thousand nine hundred sixty-one dollars ($135,961).
The fee shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the
Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have
received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount required for the full payment of the
fee in the currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall make contractual arrange-
ments with the Comisi6n, satisfactory to the Bank, providing,
inter alia, for the transfer to the Comision of the proceeds of
the Loan for the purpose of carrying out the Project. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of such arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank, provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Comisi6n shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and


﻿-4-
(b) a change shall have been made in the Presidential
Decree of October 5, 1976 which shall materially and adversely
affect the ability of the Comisi6n to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event speci.ied in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Comisi6n; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the Borrower and the Comisi6n have entered
into the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Comisi6n, and is legally binding upon the
Comisi6n in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement are legally binding upon the
parties thereto; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the


﻿-5-
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Comisibn to perform
all of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Comision
in the Project Agreement contained, together with all necessary
powers and rights in connection thereith, have been duly and
validly performed or given and no other such acts, consents and
approvals are required to be performed or given for said purpose.
Section 6.03. The date    r    4-9'52, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras
y Servicios Publicos, S.A.
Insurgentes Norte 423
Mexico, D.F. 06900
Mfxico
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANTECARIO                        BNOSME
Mexico City                       01772619


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
' Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
PUBLICOS, S.A.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Studies under            3,570,000            72%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Studies under            3,570,000            72%
Part B of
the Project
(3) Fee                        135,961            Amount due
(4) Unallocated              1,924,039
TOTAL         9,200,000
2.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that


﻿-8-
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $920,000 may be made on account of payments made before that
date but after March 1, 1982.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank and the
Borrower are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If, after consultation with the Borrower, the Bank shall
have reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in
any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of policy evaluation and engineering
and feasibility studies for prepararion of the deconcentration
program for the Central Conurbation Zone. These include compre-
hensive studies for program formulation and design, and specific
studies for individual program components, including detailed
engineering and economic and financial analysis. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Policy Evaluation Studies
(1) Administrative, financial and budgetary framework of
the deconcentration program.
(2) Urban development, covering land, infrastructure, com-
munity facilities and housing.
(3) Regional and urban transport development, consisting
of studies of inter-modal transportation wiLhin the Central
Conurbation Zone.
(4) Industrial development, consisting of an examination of
location, design, construction and operation of parks and
distribution centers, and a review 'f the relevant regional
incentives and credit policies.
(5) Water resource management, including the treatment and
recycling of effluents.
(6) Rural development of suitable areas of the Central
Conurbation Zone, including the identification and planning of
rainfed and irrigated projects to enhance local production and
employment.
Part B:   Specific Engineering and Feasibility Studies
(1) Urbanization, including land-use, site planning, archi-
tectural design of housing, community facilities and urban infra-
structure and services in selected growth centers or upgrading
areas.


﻿- 10 -
(2) Transportation facilities, including engineering design
of urban roads, transit systems, freight yards and other
transport facilities.
(3) Industrial parks and distribution centers, including
land-use, site planning, engineering and architectural design of
selected facilities.
(4) Water resources, including engineering of supply and
distribution systems, treatment plants, pumping stations, reser-
voirs and other facilities.
(5) Rural development, including engineering design of
agricultural projects and complementary facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed on June 30, 1985.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1986
through   February 15, 1997                 385,000
On August 15, 1997                                345,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    2.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                           4.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    8.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                   10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                   11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  9       day of       ., 198 &.
FOR SECRETARY


