* RETURN TO
REPORTS DESK
WITFILE   COPY                               Rort No.  PA-107a
ONE  -r"                   ltv
Tb report i for ofcal use only by the lman Gtoup nd  rcay authoized orpniztion
Of Penoe It maY not be pubihed, quoted or cited without bank Group authoriAtion. The
Bank Group does not accept responbty for the accuracy or completenesu of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
MALI
November 9, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(ExceDt where otherwise stated all figures are quoted in U.S.
dollars (ITS$). The project cost estimate is shown in both
!TSA and Mali Francs (M!) of 1971.)
Currency TJnit: Mali Franc = MP 1
US91           =    MF 556
MF 1           =    US8O.0018
MF 1 ,0o,non   =    USA1,8O0
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
(METRIC SYSTEM)
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62   miles
1 millimeter (mm)        = 0.039  inch
1 meter (m)              = 3.28   feet
1 hectare (ha)        2  = 10,000 square meters = 2.7 acres
1square kilometir (km ) -100    ha = 0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m )       = 1.31   cubic yards
I million cubic meters   = 810    acre feet
1 metric ton (ton)       = 2,205  lb
1 kilogram (kg)          = 2.2    lb
1 metric ton of paddy    = 660    kg of rice
ABBREVIATIONS
PAC       =    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation -- Development Aid
Agency of the French Government
TRAT      =    Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales --
Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture
OPAM      =    Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali -- Government
Marketing Agency for Agricultural Produce
OR        =    Operation Rice -- the Ministry of Production's semi-
autonomous rice extension service
ORM       -    Operation Rice Mopti -- the project's management
and extension service for the Mopti area
ORS            Operation Rice Segou
RED       =    Rural Engineering Department
SCAER     =    Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equippement Rural --
Government Agency for Agricultural Credit and Equip-
ment Supplies
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



MALT
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
TABLE OP CON1TETS
Page No.
STUTARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..................................   i-li
I.    DTR1ODTTCTTO   .............................................                    1
IT.    BACCPTIND .........*......................................                      1
r,eneral .1.............................................                 I
The Agricultural Sector                       ..                         2
'II.    T'E PROJTECT AREA  .........................................                    3
C.eneral ..................................................................  3
Climate              .......................................... .0       3
Hydrology   .......................................... .                 3
Soils .............................................. .                   4
Irrigation Facilities .....           .....................              4
Ponulation ..........................   5
Farming Systems and Land Tenure  .....................                   5
Agricultural Inputs and Credit ...    ..................                 5
Research and Experiments .....            ...................            6
Transnortation and Marketing  .....           .................          6
T.   TPE PROnJECT  ..............................................                      6
Pro.lect Description  .................................                  6
Project W!orks        ............................... .                  7
New Polders .....................................                  7
Existing Polders ................,............                     7
Land Preparation ................................                  8
Construction of Buildings                   .         .           8
Agricultural Research ...... .............                               8
Second-StaRe Studies    ............................                     8
1Mater Supply, Demand and Ouality                   .        .           8
Engineering Design and Construction Schedule  .... ....                  9
Environment and Health ...................                               9
Cost Estimates         .................. ...................           10
Financing           ........................ .................          11
Procurement        .................... .....................           12
Disbursements  ........ .......... ......................               12
Accounts and Audits  ................            .................      13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. A. Otten, C. Le Moigne and J. Marinet (IDA), Messrs. P. van Dooren
(rrepft Consultant) and W. Tobin (Public Health Consultant).



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION ANT) MANACEMERT ..............................          13
Project Coordination ................................    13
Execution of Project Works ..........................    13
OnM Organization and Staffing Requirements ....        ......   14
Agricultural Research ...............................    15
Agricultural Inputs and Credit ......................    15
Operation and Maintenance ...........................    16
Recovery of Costs ...................................    16
VTT.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES ANT) FARMERS' INCOMF  .    17
Production ..........       ................................    17
Market Prospects ........        ............................    17
Prices .    ..............................................    17
Farmers' Income ........        .............................    18
VII.   BENEFITS ANT) JUSTIFICATION ...............................    19
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....           ...............    20
1.   Climatological Data
2.   Hydrology, Water Supply, Demand and Ouality
3.   Soils
4.   Agricultural Inputs and Credits
5.   Description of Project Works
6.   Description of Second-Stage Studies
7.   Construction Schedule
8.   Health Survey in the Project Area
9.   Cost Estimates, OEM, Personnel Development and Operating Expenses
10.   Schedule of Project Expenditures
11.   List of Equipment
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Terms of Reference for RED Consultants
14.   Production with and without the Project
15.   Comparison of Mali Rice Prices with Expected World Market Prices
16.   Farm Budgets
17.   Economic Analysis
1MAPS
1.   Location Vap
9.   Examnle of Project Polder (North Mopti)



MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT - STAGE I
STTWMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        This report appraises a project to improve conditions for irri-
gated rice cultivation in the Mopti area of the Niger River flood plains
in Mali.  The projlect would rehabilitate and construct polders covering a
rice cultivated area of about 31,0O0 ha, for which it would also provide
sunporting services, and would finance a feasibility study for a second-
stage rice prolect in the Mopti area. About 7,300 farm families would
each, on averaRe, cultivate a plot of 4 ha with rice and continue to grow
su'sfstence crons outside orolect lands.
it.       The flood plains of the Niger River in Mali are an important rice
groving area in vTest Africa.  Mali has traditionally been an exporter of
rice, hut with stagnating production and increasing urban consumption over
the last decade, it has become a net imnorting countrv. In order to reverse
the trend, Mali has embarked on a Drogram for the construction of polders
and the imnrovement of farmers' cultivation methods over an area of some
lin,nnn 'ha, about 55,n0n ha of which are located in the Mopti area. The
Droposed nroiect would be the first stage of this orogram.
iti.      Total project costs are estimated at lTSAq.4 million, with an
estimated foreign exchange component of IJSA5.6 million (60%). The pro-
nosed TDA credit of ITA.6q million would finance approximately 80% of
estimated foreign exchanze costs (TTSS4.5 million) and about 63% of
local. currenev (7T9S§.A million). The French government, chrough its
develonment agencv, FAC, would provide parallel financing for all
expatriate nersonnel in the management and extension service, estimated
at rTrs¶0.7 million over the six-year project period.  The remainder of the
project costs would be covered by the Mali Government through budget
approoriations (US.1.8 million).
iv.       Contracts for civil works and procurement of equipment, with
the exception of ox-drawn farm implements, amount to US$4.6 million and
would be tendered through international competitive bidding.  All con-
struction would be completed in four years, but financing of project
orerations would continue for an additional two years, after which the
oroject would generate revenue sufficient to sustain itself.
v.        Overall responsibilitv for the project would rest with the
M1nistrv of Production. Its Rural Engineering Department (RED) would be
resDonsil4e for construction and rehabilitation of polders; it has more
than in vears' experience in such work.  Because the RED senior staff
wo,iud not be large enough to handle all polder construction, it would be
assisteA -v consultants under the oronosed prolect.  The Ministry's rice
extension service, Oneration Rice (OR), which has been operating since 1969



- ii -
under expatriate management, would be divided into two units - Operation
Rice Mooti (OPM' for the proposed project, and Operation Rice Segou (ORS)
for similar project elsewhere in the Niger flood olain.  A National Rice
Commission would be set up within the Ministry of Production to ensure
adequate coordination of the rice projects for implementation of works and
extension services and to orovide policy guidelines on extension operations.
The prolect would also provide training for local personnel in ORM.
vi.       The internal rate of return from investment in the project wQuld be
147. At full development in 1982, average per capita income in the project
area is expected to reach about ItS,5O, comoared to tUS82n at present.  Proj-
ect beneficiaries are in the lower income levels of the country and the
i,rolect would make a useful contribution towards a better income distribu-
:ion. Fmnlovment opportunities are expected to increase, primarily outside
ineak norTods.
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of TJSS6.9 million
eouivalent. The borrower would be the Government of the Republic of Mali.



MALT
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
1. I'NTTRODTTCTION
1.n1      The Government of the Republic of Mali has requested an IDA
credit of TTRA6.A million to assist in financing polder construction and
rehabi1itation on about 31,000 ha. The project would promote rice produc-
tion bv smallholders in the Mopti area of the Niger River flood plains
and would be the first Bank Group operation in Mali's agricultural sector.
It would follow two Credits made in 1966 and 1970 for transportation.
1.n?      Tn the Nliger River flood plains, farmers have traditionally
used the annual river floods to cultivate rice on some 150,000 ha. Polder
construction was started in the early 1950's to improve conditions and
was continued after indenendence with the assistance of the European
T)eveloTment rund and Wrench bilateral aid. The experience has demon-
strated that, if polders are properly located and well designed and
nrovit4ed farmers are given advice on the improvement of cultivation tech-
nisues, substantial increases in rice production can be achieved.  Outlets
for increased rice Production exist both in Mali and in neighboring
cotntries.
i.ni      The proiect was identified by the Bank's regional office in
Abid'ian (DWTA) and nrepared bv the Covernment, assisted bv consultants
financed through the TThDP and the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
WAMr). This renort is based on the findinRs of an appraisal mission that
visited M.ali during April/May 1071, composed of Messrs. A. Otten, G. LeMoigne
and .T. Marinet (TIA) and Messrs. P. Van Dooren (credit consultant) and
iT. Tohin (public health consultant).
II. *RACKGROUNTD
General
2.n1      The Republic of Mali, located in central West Africa, has a
land area of about 1.2 million km2 and a population of 4.9 million. The
northern half of the countrv extends into the Sahara desert and is
virtuallv uninhabited. Farther south, rainfall increases, but on only
915 of the area does it exceed minimum requirements (over 550 mm per
annum) for traditional food grains. Difficult climatic conditions are,
however, attenuated to some extent bv the Niger River, which traverses
the countrv from west to east and regularly overflows its banks in November-
necember, enablinR the cultivation of submerged rice on some 150,000 ha.



- Z 
4. ?      In snite of viRorous Government efforts to develop the economv
stince indenendence in 106°, the growth of Gross Pomestic Product (GDP)
h>as not exceeded. populat on growth, estimated at about 2.5% per annum.
As a result, real rer caDita (nP at the current exchange rate has remained
stagnant for the last decade at TTSR52 ner annum which, comDared to other
d?eveloping countries, is one of the lowest Income levels in the world.
The ARricultural Sector
!.n03     Agriculture, including livestock and fishing, is the mainstay
of the Mali economv, producing over half of CDP and accounting for all
export earnings. About PO% of the cultivated area is devoted to food
crons, mainly millet and rice, which contribute some 65% of the total
value of agricultural production.  Cotton and groundnuts are the principal
cash croos, making up about half of the country's recorded exports. Mali
is also an important cattle breeding country, its sale of beef on the
hoof to the Ivorv Coast and Chana accounting for about one-third of
recorded exports.  Although total agricultural Droduction has virtually
3tagnated over the last 1n years, cotton nroduction and exports have
increased hg about 607 since 1969, assisted by favorable prices and a
vigorous extension and marketing effort.
2.04      Vali is an imoortant rice producing country in West Africa 1/,
achieving an output of close to 90,000 tons annually.  Most is grown in
the settlement and irrigation scheme administered by the Office du Niger
(in,n00 tons) and in the Niger River flood plains (60,000 tons).  While rice
from the Office du Niger is sold through official channels, most of the
oroduction from the flood plains is consumed on the farm as parboiled rice
(less than 5,nn0 tons was sold in 1970).  Rice production has remained
oractically unchanged from 1Q60 to 1970, partlv because of organization and
drainage nrohlems in the Office du Niger irrigation scheme and partly be-
cause efforts to introduce new technioues of production in the flood plains
suffered from inadequate engineering design. Another important reason,
however, was the fact that official paddv prices were kept low, acting as
a disincentive to the farmer to increase his production for the market. In
the face of growing urban consumotion of rice, mainly in Bamako, the capital,
Vali has, therefore, changed from a traditional rice exporter to an importing
countrv in recent vears. Net imports amounted to 10,000 tons in both 1969
and 197n.
2.n5      The Ministry of Production is responsible for the formulation
of agricultural Dolicy. Since 1969, agricultural policy has been re-
oriented and, instead of a dispersion of effort resulting in stagnating
nroduction, an {ntegrated develorment aVoroach has been adopted, concentrated
1/   (inea, TvorV Coast and Sierra Leone have a paddy acreage equal to or
bizer than that o$ vali.



on three main crons for which good market opportunities exist: cotton,
groundnuts, and rice. For each of these crons, a semi-autonomous agency
called "Oneration" was established and made responsible for extension
work: for the nrovision of farm inputs to the farmer for cash or on credit;
and, in the case of cotton and groundnuts, for marketing. Subsidized
farm innuts, mainlv fertilizer and ox-drawn equipment, have been chan-
nelled exclusively through these agencies, which are assisted by ex-
ratriate personnel and partlv financed bv external resources. The pro-
rosed rroject, bv promoting expanded rice cultivation and strengthening
the rice agency's activities, would fit well into this strategy.
III. THE PROJECT ARFA
r,eneral
3.01      The moDti region is located in the central part of the Niger
flood nlains, which extend over a length of more than 5n0 km with
vidths between 15n and 20n km. Because of the size of the area, flood
levels are sufficientlv shallow to allow cultivation of submerged rice.
'Rice is the basic food cron in the region, with livestock and fishing
as important secondarv activities.
I.A,7     Tn order to achieve some control over the water level at flood
time, the construction of polders was started in the early 1950's, and
has continued in various parts of the flood plains since independence.
The nroiect is part of the Government's plans for Dolder construction
and rehabilitation in the Mopti area, totaling some 55,000 ha. Project
polders with a rice cultivated area of about 31,000 ha represent the first
stage of this program and are located north and south of the town of
Mopti, and south of the town of Tenenkou on the western edge of the plain
(Map 1).
(llimate
3.03      Rains are concentrated in a single rainy season, from May to
October: rainfall averages 550 mm per year at Mopti, increasing slightly
from the north of the project area (450 mm) towards the south (650 mm).
Average annual temperature is 28'C, with small seasonal but important
daily variations, especially during the dry winter season. Additional
climatological data is given in Annex 1.
yvdrologv
I.n4      The floods of the Niger and its main tributary, the Bani, have
heen recorded for more than 3I  vears.  In the Monti area, these floods
start in June-Julv and reach a maximum in November, with subsidence ending in
Iehruarv-march. Thev are quite regular, both in timing and in intensity,



-4-
w.7-ith only about 6' variation between the high and low flood depth in the
recorded neriod.  The regularity of the flood neriod practically assures
that i0 to 40 davs after rice is sown, it will be nossible to start supplying
water for irriRation (Annex 9).
S_ilS
I,nt;     A soil classification carried out in the project area indi-
cates that only 4% of the soils are unsuitable for rice cultivation
(Annex 3).  v'eavv soils witth a fine to a verv fine texture and a high
clav content (over 407 of clav) are found in the low-lying areas, whereas
lighter soils with a coarse texture in the upper layers and a clay
content of about 107 oredominate in the more elevated areas. Areas having
the latter type of soils and not subiect to flooding are often the sites
of villages and are used to grow subsistence crops other than rice, such
as sorghum and millet.
Irrigation 'acilities
3.n6      In the absence of embankments and land leveling, water depth
during the flood neriod is uneven, reaching 3 m in the low-lving rice
cultivated fields. TTnder such conditions, onlv floating rice can be
grown and average vields are low -- in the order of 0.7 ton of paddy/ha.
I.fn7     Tn the early 195n's, the Rural Engineering Department (RED) of
the ministrv of Production constructed some polders in the project area.
The engineerinR works were simple, consisting of a perimeter dike to
orotect the Dolder from the highest flood levels, intake regulators, and
canals within the Dolder.  These works made it possible to control the
water level and to time submersion. Depending unon elevation and topo-
granhv, areas for rice cultivation could thus be defined: nonfloating rice
varieties where the water level would remain below 60 cm and floating
varieties, where the rise in the water level would exceed 60 cm. Where
they were properly constructed and managed, these polders led to signifi-
cant increases in Daddy yields. Eowever, because many were poorly designed
and others were not Droperly operated and maintained, not more than 40%
of the emooldered area was suitable for Daddy cultivation, with yields
averaging onlv 0.° ton of Daddyfha.
A review of polder design criteria was started in 1965 under
a TThhP/IFA0 prolect and, as a result, new standards were set up to govern
helght of dikes, waterflow through the intakes, timing of submersion, and
Aeleineation of the areas suitable for the main rice varieties. These
standards were used to imorove some of the existing polders and in construc-
tion of new ones.  Average vield in improved areas increased to 1.2 tons of
na40vlha, even though extension services were not vet fully operational.



-5-
Ponulat ion
3.no      11tillages in the project area are concentrated along the rivers
and range in population from about 6n0 to 1,000 inhabitants.  Avera e
nonulation density in the province of Mopti is only about 11 per km
Prolect Dolders would he on locations where a cluster of villages exists
and where neonle have experience in growing rice on flooded soils.
FarminR Systems and Land Tenure
3.1n      Oneration Rice (OR), the semi-autonomous rice extension service
of the Ministrv of Production for the Niger flood plains, has been
operating under expatriate personnel, since its establishment in 1968
(para ?2.0) In all polders taken over by OR the organization assumes
responsibility for allocation of land to farmers, operation and maintenance
and the provision of credit and extension services.
3.11      Farm families in existing polders cultivate about 4 ha of paddy
while those cultivating outside polders grow about 2.6 ha. In addition,
the average family grows about 1.4 ha of other subsistence crops, such as
sorphum and millet. Shifting cultivation is practiced for sorghum and
millet on the higher areas, while rice is continually cultivated on low-lying
and nolder soils. Yields are low, varying from 0.9 to 1.2 ton of paddy/ha
in existinr polders, and 0.7 ton of paddy/ha outside polders. Average
vields for mil1et and sorghum are 0.7 ton/ha and 0.6 ton/ha, respectively.
3.1?      Individual property rights do not exist and land for cultiva-
tion Is usuallv allocated among farmers by the village chief.  In the
OR polders, however, this responsibility has been turned over to the
Director of OR which, so far, has not created any major problems as OR
haq worked closely with the local authorities.
3.13      Rice-eating fish are common in the project area and inflict
substantial annual damage to the rice crop cultivated outside the polders.
namage within the polders, however, is negligible as fish screens have been
installed at the intake regulators and have proved to be effective.
3.14      The flood plains are also an important livestock region, as
manv ponds and lakes carry water throughout the dry season after the
floods have receded, offering grazing land and watering facilities to
the herds.  Although most of the herds are held by nomedic tribes, one
out of every two or three farmers in the project area owns a pair of
draft oxen and, usually, a plow. All land preparation is presently done
with draft oxen.
Agricultural Inputs and Credit
1.19      The purchase of farm inputs from suppliers and their sale to
the farm population for cash or on credit has been the monopoly of the
novernment Agencv for Agricultural Credit and Equipment Supplies (SCAER).



-6-
S17AFR has had a poor operational record as a result of unsatisfactory
management and the absence of a field organization to supervise borrowers
and collect repayments. IJnder a reorganization in April 1971, however,
SCJAER's credit functions were taken over by the Operations, who have the
field organization required for adequate credit supervision. SCAER now
acts primarily as the central supply agency for the Operations. Details of
SCAFR's past and present activities are given in Annex 4.
Research and Experiments
3.16i     The French Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IRAT) has
been carrying out experiments on rice in two research stations in Mali, one
of which (Thetemi) is located in the project area. The main purpose of
the rice research program has been to find desirable varieties and adapt them
to existing ecological conditions and to increase their productivity through
application of improved techniques. These targets have been gradually
achieved, starting from local varieties, followed by introduced varie-
ties, and later by new varieties selected for both irrigated and floating
rice and having different growing periods.
'ransportation and Marketing
3.17      An all-weather road along the eastern edge of the flood plains
connects Mopti with the capital, Bamako, and all but two of the polders
-tn the proposed prolect connect directly with it. The remaining two,
on the western side of the plains, connect indirectly with the Mopti-
lamako trunk road by a road that is passable only during the dry season;
however, river transport is assured throughout the wet season.  The
road and river system is therefore considered adequate for the transpor-
tation requirements of the prolect.
3.1Q      Marketing and processing of rice is handled by the Government
Marketing Agency for Agricultural Produce (OPAM), which owns two rice
mills in the project area. Although OPAM has a paddy purchasing monopoly
little paddv has ever been sold to OPAM as its prices have been consistently
lower than those offered to the farmers by private traders. Many private
traders operate their own hullers and sell processed rice in Bamako or
exrort it to nearby countries (TIpper Volta and Mauritania).
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Description
4.nl      The pronosed prolect would imProve conditions for rice culti-
vation on about 31 ,noo ha. Project worlcs are summarized below and described
in detail in Annex 5. They include:



(a) construction of three polders, including land
preDaration, with a rice cultivated area of
13,In0 hal
(b) rehabilitation of five polders, including land
preparation, with a rice cultivated area of
13,200 ha!
(c)  land preparation only on 2,000 ha of an existing
polder;
(d) construction of buildings for the project; and
(e) establishment of a project authority, Operation
Rice Mopti (ORM4), to operate and maintain the
noldern, to allocate land in the new polders, to
produce and distribute selected seeds, and to
provide credit and extension service in all
areas mentioned above, plus existing polders
with a rice cultivated area of 2,700 ha.
The oroject would also include the purchase of farm machinery, the provi-
sion of technical assistance to reinforce the management and train the
staff of nRM, the establishment and operation of an agricultural research
station and the preparation of a feasibility study for a second-stage
Droject in the Mopti region. Consultants would be engaged to assist RED
in the supervision of construction, to assist ORM in its activities, in-
cluding training of local staff during the development period, and to
assist in the nreparation of the feasibility study.
Prolect Works
A.n?      New Polders.  W4orks for the new polders (North Mopti, Soufourou-
lave and Sofara) include embankments, intake regulators with fish screens
and flood gauges, supply and drainage canals, farm roads and cattle cross-
ings. In North Mopti (Mao 2), a 50-ha agricultural research station
and a igo-ha seed multiplication farm would be established, both with
separate dikes and intake regulators.
4.n0      Existing Polders.  Rehabilitation of existing polders (Dia,
Thetimi, Karbave, South Mopti and Tenekou) would involve strengthening
embankments, raising heights to acceptable standards and enlarging where
necessarv. On the most frequently used sections, a laterite-surfaced road
would be constructed on top of the embankment. Where it is readily
available, laterite would also be utilized for slope protection. At some
sites, unnecessarv intake regulators would be closed and new ones built at
more suitable locations. Existing canals that have become silted would be
cleared and new canals built to improve drainage and filling conditions.



- 8 -
4,n4      Land Preparation.  About 10,000 ha throughout the project area
would require deep plowing to destrov the existing grass and light bush
vegetation.
4.05      Construction of Buildings.  Facilities at Mopti, Sevare and
Tenenkou would include offices, storage buildings, and housing for ORM
staff, the seed multiplication farm, the research station, and the second-
stage studies. In addition, a combined office and storage building
would be erected in each of the three new polders and in two existing
oolders not already supplied with one.
Agricultural Research
4.n6      Tlnder the project, the present research station and the seed
multiplication farm at Ibetemi would be transferred to the North Mopti
polder at a location near the town of Mopti, where it would have better
access to ORM headquarters and where experiments could be carried out,
not only on floating rice, but also on irrigated rice. In addition,
the research orogram would be expanded to include:
(a)  research on the responsiveness of selected varieties
to fertilizers and on sowing periods; dormancy, and
transplanting, as well as on the eradication of wild
rice:
(b)  performance of seed trials on farms scattered throughout
the proiect area- and
(c)  selection of the most suitable ox-drawn farm implements
mainly for land preparation and weeding.
Second-Stage Studies
4.07      The feasibility study for a second-stage project would include
surveys on tonography, soils, hydrology and hydraulics; it would also
include detailed engineering of an all-weather road between Ke-Macina
and Tenenkou, a health survey of the project area and an analysis of markets,
orices and economic benefits.  The Rural Economics Institute under the
Ministrv of Production, which has been coordinating feasibility studies for
the proposed project, would continue to do so for the second-stage studies
and be responsible for the final report. Surveys would be carried out by
snecialized firms under contract to the Government, while analyses would
be done by the anproDriate Government agencies, assisted by consultants.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that experienced firms and
consultants reauired for these studies would be employed by the Rural
Wconomics Institute on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Terms
of reference for the studies are Dresented in Annex 6.



Water Sunply, T)emand and Ouality
4. nP     Project water requirements represent less than 2% of the
available flood flows in the Bani and Niger Rivers, and river flows
would not be substantially modified by the project (Annex 2). Sub-
mersion, which is a function of actual water levels, would be assured
°° vears out of 1on for 057 of the project area. According to an
International Niger Water Agreement, signed by all riparian states in
1963, the Mali Government's only duty is to inform the other states of
its plan to imnlement the scheme.
A.no      Several nrolects, aimed at developing the Niger River basin
unstrean of Monti, have been identified and some are in the early stages
of preparation. Although available data indicate that these projects
would not sienificantlv alter the flood levels around Mopti, assurances
have been obtained from the Government that any upstream development would
take into account the Mopti Droject's water requirements. Water quality
has been analvzed (Annex 2) and found suitable for project purposes.
Engineering Desipn and Construction Schedule
4.10      Design of the project works has been essentially completed up
to tendering stage, following the standards established by the UNDP/FAO
team (t'ara 3.08). Civil works for polder construction and rehabilitation
would be carried out during the dry season only and be completed in 1975.
neen plow.ing, where required, would be implemented and completed in step
with polder works.  Construction of buildings would be carried out in
two 8tages: buildings that are urgently required by RFD for supervision
of construction, by ORM for its headquarters, and by the Rural Economic
Tnstitute for the second-stage studies would be completed in 1972, while
the remainder would be built in 1974.  A detailed construction schedule
annears in Annex 7.
Environment and Health
4.11      The project would not appreciably change the existing character
of the environment. Areas that are flooded each wet season would con-
tinue to be flooded, albeit protected by embankments. Sparse brush and
grass vegetative cover would be cleared, but conditions do not call for
any specific soil conservation measures.
4.12      A study carried out in connection with appraisal by Mr. W.
Jobin, a public health consultant, identified malaria as the major health
problem in the project area, followed by amebiasis and cholera, both
r.yater-borne diseases.  Schistosomiasis of the urinary type ranks fourth,
with 1nn cases a month seen at the local health center. The study reveals
no evidence of the snail, that harbors the parasite of the life-threaten-
ing form of schistosomiasis, and river blindness disease does not exist
in the area. The study also indicates that the project would have no



- 10 -
significant influence on the prevalence of malaria or the enteric-type
water-borne diseases and that no program of environmental control could
be expected to have permanent results. The project would, however,
lead to a reduction in the snail vectors of schistosomiasis. Snails
that harbor the disease parasites can survive the drought period only
in undrained pockets of water and most small pockets would be drained
in the project polders, leaving onlv a few of the larger ones for the
watering of cattle. The studv recommended that marshy edges around
large ponds be filled in and their banks steepened, which could further
reduce snail survival. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Covernment would initiate a study on the cost of implementing
this recommendation. If the cost appears prohibitive, a periodic appli-
cation of molluscicide on the marsh! areas may prove an acceptable
alternative. Details of the health study are presented in Annex 8.
Cost Estimates
4.13      overall project costs are estimated at US$9.4 million, with
a foreign exchange component of UJSA5.6 million (60%). Cost estimates
for civil works are based on construction contracts for similar polders
currentlv being carried out in the area. Since ORM personnel would be
fully engaged in implementing the project over the next six years, the
salaries of ORM staff, as well as its operating costs over that period,
are included in the cost estimates under management and extension services.
4.14      About 22% for contingencies has been allowed.  This consists
of a physical contingency allowance of 10% to 15% on all construction
items and price contingencies of 8% per year on civil works, of 10%
per vear on equipment purchases, and of 6% to 8% per year on the research
station and ORM salaries and operating costs.
4.15      A detailed breakdown of cost items is presented in Annex 9,
Tables 1 and 2, and summarized in the table below. Taxes on construc-
tion materials, equipment and services to be paid under the project
would amount to MF 560 million or approximately IJS$1 million (Annex 9,
Table 3) and are included in the cost estimates.



- 11 -
.----MW(Million)-----   -----TS ('000)       -  Foreign
Local  Woreign  Total Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Civil Vorks         959   1,190   2,149  1,720   2,140   3,860        55
E.ngineering
Sunervision        39       85     124      70     150     220      68
Agricultural
Research          13n      118     248    230      210     440      48
Warm Machinerv        76     439     515    140      790     930      85
M.anagement and
Extension
Services          443      516     959    800      930   1,730      54
Second-Stage
Studies           142      224     366    260      400     660      61
Contingencies
- Phvsical         87      200     287    160      360     520     69
- Price           228      362     59n    410      650   1,060      61
Total        2,104   3,134   5,238  3,790   5,630   9,420        60
Winancing
4.16      Prolect financing would be provided from the following sources:
----USA(Million)----      X Foreign    x Total
Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange       Cost
IDA Credit                  2.4     4.5      6.9         80           73
FAC Contribution             -      0.7      0.7         13            8
Government Contribution    1.4      n.4      1.8          7           19
Total                  3.8     5.6     9.4         100          100
/1   Including taxes.
4.17      The IDA credit of MF 3,836 million (US$6.9 million) would finance
73¶S of project costs. It would cover the US$4.5 million estimated foreign
exchange costs of civil works, agricultural research, ORM equipment, and
second-stage studies, as well as US$2.4 million of local expenditures for
civil works contracts, management and extension services and second-stage
studies.
4.1R      The F.rench rovernment, through its development agency (FAC), has
financed exnatriate assistance to OR in the past and would continue to do
so to ORM under the Drolect.  The FAC grant of MF 393 million (US$0.7 million),



- 12 -
or P7 of Droject cost, would cover all expatriate personnel for OPT o-7er
t'he 'nitial six-year neriod, and nn agreemert was reac!ed with FAC that 4.t
would provide sufficient funds to ORM to cover the cost of expatriate
assistance.
4.1Q      The Government contribution, totaling MP 1,010 million (TS$1 .8
million), or 19% of project cost, vould finance part of the locc'.l OR!
salaries over the initial six-year per'od and tie local cost of procured
equinment (TTSS0.3 million); nrocurement of ox-drawn farm implement3 (US$0.5
million) and all taxes on construction materials, equinment and services
to be naid under the prolect (TTS;1 .0 million).  Because appronrrations from
the budget to Government departments are freauently delayed, and in order to
nrovide the continuous and timely flow of funds requ!red for the project, it
is a condition of effectiveness of the credit that an imnrest account for
ORM be established. Assurances were obtained that the initial amount of the
account would be MF 5.R million and that it would be replenished monthly tc
mnaintain a balance adequate to cover the estimated 'oasic salary requirements
for local ORM Dersonnel over the following three months.  Estimated annual
expenditures for the Government and for the Droject as a whole ere summarized
below and vresented in detail in Annex 10:
Fiscal Years Ending June 30, of:
1972/  107?/  1974/  1975/  1976/  1977/
73     74      75     76      77     78    Total
US  mlion----------------
rovernment Contribution         0.3    n.5    0.4    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.8
T'otal Proiect rxnenditures    2.1    3.7    1.9    0.7    0X5    0.5    9.+
P'rocurement
L,.2n)    All civil works contracts (OJSS3.9 million) as well as the procure-
nert of farm machinery and equivment listed in Annex 11 (ITSA0,7 million)
w-rould be carried out through internatCional competitive bidding. Fertilizers
and ox-drawn farm implements to be sold to particioating farmers for cash or
eredit would be purchased annually by SCAER on the basis of apnlications re-
ceived from ORM. Assurances were obtained from the Government that fer-
tilizers and farm implements vould be made a-.ab1e to ORM bv SCA2R es and
w7hen reouired (nara 5.0n).
')i shursenents
4.?1      The proposed TT'A cred4t of USS6.9 million would be d!sbhursed
against (a) the CIF cost of procured eQu iment and imp'ements (USSO.7 mil-
'Lion), and (b) 787 of the combined cost of civil Tiorks, second-stage studies,
and salari es and oneratin7 costs of 0CM, and the agricultural research
station (TTSt6.2 inllon).  If necessary, nercentages in each single category
'To01'  b-e aet4usted tnrouglhouit t'ne nro-ect ner4od to allow disbursements to be
srcrad over tiT.e.  Sav-Irns In anv catelory under vhe allocation of proceeds



- 13 -
would he made available for overruns in any other category; any unused
balance of the credit would be cancelled when the project is completed.
Disbursements wqould be made against payment statements to contractors or
sunpliers certified by consultants, and for salaries and operating costs
against ORM's and the agricultural research stations' audited accounts. An
estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 12.
Accounts and Audits
h.7?      The OR! organization, as a Government service, is subject to annual
audits by the Office of the Accountant General. Although ORM's accounting
system is satisfactorv, the auditing procedures are inadequate and need to
be revised. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) ORM
accounts would be audited bv an independent auditing firm, to be designated
within six months after the credit has become effective, and (b) ORM's
audited oroject accounts, together with the auditor's comments, would be sent
to TDA within four months after the close of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGFMENT
Project Coordination
5.n1      Overall responsibility for project coordination would rest with
the Ministrv of Production, whose Rural Engineering Department (RED) would
be in charge of polder construction and rehabilitation while Operation
Rice (OR) (para 3.10), would be reorganized in two units: Operation Rice
Morti (ORM), which would cover the proposed project and Operation Rice Segou
(ORS), which would cover a similar project in another part of the Niger
flood plains. Each would be in charge of operations in its respective area.
To insure adequate coordination between implementation of works and extension
services and to nrovide integrated policy guidance for ORM and ORS, a
National Rice Commission would be set up within the Ministry of Production,
chaired by the Minister or his representative. The Commission, of which
RPED, nPM and ORS would be members, would meet at least once a year to monitor
progress on the implementation of works and to provide general guidelines
on the services' operations, such as the allocation of land to farmers,
farmers' charges, loan terms and interest rates for credit provided to
farmers, and salaries of local extension personnel. All of its decisions
would require the approval of the Minister. The Commission would have a
nermanent secretary and would keep the Bank informed about its activities.
Execution of Project Works
9.n?      Resnonsibility for civil works construction would rest with RED,
w4hich has been in charge of polder construction for the past 20 years (para
3.07) and has on its staff two senior qualified Malian engineers, assisted
bv two wrench engineers. This staff would not, however, be sufficient to



- 14 -
handle all polder construction activities in the Mopti area, particularly
since rolders for the Segou Rice Project would be constructed during the
same period. An experienced consulting firm would, therefore, be engaged by
RET), on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Annex 13). The employ-
ment of such consultants is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
It is exnected that the consulting firm would be able to employ qualified
Malian technicians but it would have to assign at least two experienced ex-
Patriate engineers to RTED during the construction period.
ORP  Organization and Staffing Requirements
9.n       ORMf would be established by decree as a semi-autonomous project
authority, directlv responsible to the Minister of Production. The decree
would provide ORM with the necessary power to (a) operate and maintain the
polders: (b) allocate land to farmers, continuing OR's policy (para 3.12) so
that the average farm familv would cultivate 4 ha of rice in the polders;
(c) provide extension services to promote better cultivation techniques; (d)
produce and distribute selected seeds: (e) provide farm inputs on cash or
credit: (f) rent seeders to farmers- (g) thresh the harvest; and (h) collect
farmers' charges for repayment of loans and for recovery of project costs.
txcept for threshing, all cultivation would be carried out directly by the
farmer, either by hand or with draught animals. ORM staff would monitor
Progress in production by project farmers. That the decree establishing
OkM would be issued is a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
5.04      ORM would be administered by a board of six members, including a
representative of the Minister of Production, the Director of the Agricul-
ture Department, the Director of RED, and three experts appointed by the
Minister. The Board will eventually add four members to include farmers'
representatives. All decisions of the Board would require the approval of
the Minister.
5.n5      ORM would be managed by a project director appointed by the
Minister of Production. He would have authority over ORM staff and would
select the local field personnel. The general lack of local personnel
experienced in management and extension work in Mali necessitates the
employment of consultants in the early stages of project implementation.
During this period experts from a consultant firm would be placed in manage-
ment positions and provide in-service training for all local personnel
(Annex 9, Table 4). To ensure the availability of capable local key
personnel in the Operations, expected to replace expatriates after a train-
ing period, the Government presently accords premiums in addition to basic
salaries, thus raising effective pay scales by 20% to 30% when compared with
other Government employees of comparable rank. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that:
(a) ORM would be managed by a competent and experienced project
director satisfactorv to the Association



- 15 -
(b)  a management consultants firm would be employed to furnish the
services of five qualified and experienced experts to ORM
on terms and conditions satisfactorv to the Association;
(c)  Malian counterpart personnel would be appointed to the management
consultantst experts not more than one year after commence-
ment of the experts' employment with ORM;
(d)  effective pav scales for ORM's local personnel would not
be different from those in other Operations- and
(e)  ORM would maintain for not less than 10 years, an
organization with powers and authority and with a level of
management satisfactory to the Association.
Agricultural Pesearch
5.0n      The agricultural research station would continue to be operated by
research Personnel from TRAT under contract with the Malian Government
(para 3.16).  TRAT personnel would consist of two expatriate research spe-
cialists and three qualified local technicians, presently working on the
Tbetemi station. The station would be in charge of research and seed trials
on farms in the project area, as outlined in paragraph 4.06.
5.n7      Olf would be responsible for operation of the seed multiplication
farm and of selection of the most suitable farm implements as these activi-
ties are directly related to the improvement of project farmers' production
techniques.
Agricultural Inputs and Credit
5.n8     ITnder the project, SCAER would continue its role as a supply organ-
ization for farm inputs. All farm inputs would be provided to ORM, who
would distribute them for cash or on credit to farmers according to farmers'
demand. Short-term credit (eight to nine months) for seeds and fertilizers
and medium-term credit (two to three years) for ox-drawn farm implements is
nresently available to farmers through the existing OR at a subsidized
interest rate of 37 per annum. In addition, the Government accords a
subsidy on the price of certain fertilizers and farm implements, which varies
between 6% and 257 of SCAER's calculated cost price (Annex 4, Table 1).
These subsidies on farm inputs have tended to promote productivity and have
nrimarily benefitted low-income farmers. The Government has started to
reduce subsidies by raising prices of farm inputs and raising the interest
rate from 0 to 3I, but it is expected that farm inputs would still be
subsidized, at least during the first years of project implementation.
varm inputs would not he financed by IDA but by the Government and would
amount to TTSAn.17 million annually at full develonment for seeds and
fertilizers and to rTSA0.53 million for farm implements, spread over six
vears (Annex 4, Tahle 2).



- 16 -
Overation and Maintenance
5.(9      S- nce 07M would be In charge of operation and maintenance of all
orolect facilif ties (para 5.03), adequate staff and equipment for such work
woulr be provIded under the project.  Oeration and maintenance cost is es-
timated at >xv 1R mIllion Per annum at full development, or TTS$t.10 ner
cronned ha.
Recovery of Costs
5.10      Direct investments in the Project, subject to recovery, are esti-
mated at m`'' 2_Q5 .4llon (TTSf5.4 million).  This amount excludes farm
equipment and seasonal innuts such as fertilizers, which would be repaid
during the project period, as well as costs of OM exPatriate personnel,
financerq by the FAC grant. It includes ORM's operational expenditures,
i4'icb after Prolect vear-7 would be reduced gradually from MF 101 million
per vear to Ms 56 million.  Operation and maintenance costs would be recov-
ered from farmers annually for the life of the Project.
5.11      Recoverv of costs would be achieved through imposition of a levy
on project farmers. The levy would be set at 60 kg of paddy per ha in the
first vear and increased gradually to 180 kg of paddy per ha from the tenth
vear onwards. The table shows that revenue from the levy would be suffi-
cient to recover annual operation and maintenance costs and all direct
investments over a period of about 35 years at less than 1% interest.
Recoverv at a non-subsidized interest rate of 8% would require additional
levies totalling TTSA3.M million during the 35 years, which would necessitate
an increase in levies of about 50T. The proposed project levy, however, is
conrs!dered reasonable in this case, taking into account the farmers' low
income level. (nara 6.06) and the need for adequate incentives to move from
a subs4stence to a market economy. Assurances that such a levy would be
imnroser! were obtained during negotiations.
Project Revenue                                             MF per ha
Years  t to  5:       60 kg/ha/year at MY 30/kg                9,000
Years  6 to 10:      120 kg/ha/year at MF 28/kg:              16,800
Years 11 -o 35:      180 kg/ha/year at MF 28.5/kg:           128,250
154 050
Prolect FxDenditures
Direct Trvestments!                 Mr 2,998 million         103,024
Oneration and Maintenance Costs:  Mr 630 million              21,649
(35 vears)                                                124,673



- 17 -
NTT.  PRODTTCTITMT, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES ANT) FARMERS' INCOME
Production
6.n1      Paddy acreage in the prolect area would increase from 21,700 ha
to over 31,0nn ha, with average paddy yields increasing from 0.88 ton to
an estimated 1.S6 tons of paddy per ha at full development as a result of the
Project. The acreage and yield increases would be the result of better water
control, the arplication of improved cultivation techniques such as harrow-
ing, seedhed Preparation and weed control: and the use of fertilizers and
selected seeds. At full development in 1982, project production would reach
5/i ,0nn tons of paddy from a single wet-season crop. Without the project,
vields would increase in existing polders by about 3% per year and would
remain stationarv outside polders; as a result, production in the project
area would go up from the present 14,60n tons to only 18,900 tons of paddy
bv 1Q52. Details of cropped areas, yields and production are presented in
Annex 14.
MTarlket Prosnects
.n0?      After reaching full development in 1982, the project area would
produce about 36,0n0 tons of rice, of which 34,500 tons would be for the
market and 1,5n0 tons for farm consumption. With urban demand for rice ex-
nected to continue to increase at 77 per annum, total market demand at full
develonment would reach about 1no,000 tons, compared with present constmip-
tion of 4n,0n0 tons. Even under the most optimistic projections concerning
the implementation of other rice development projects planned in Mali, pro-
duction would roughly equate demand, and small surpluses that might occur
couild easilv be exported.
Prices
6.n0      Paddy prices to the producer in Mali are slightly below present in-
ternational standards. Locally produced broken rice (40% broken or more),
which accounts for about 9n0 of all rice reaching the market, sells currently
at Bamako for MW 75,000 (USA135) per ton; when local production is unable to
cover the needs of the country, rice of a similar quality is imported, free
of import duties, at a cost of MF 90,0o0 (US$162) per ton. The current price
for domestic rice in Bamako reflects a paddy producer price of about MF 35,000
(TTS64) per ton, paid by private traders. The price paid by OPAM, as fixed
for the 1971 season, is MF 25,000 (ITS$45) per ton. Under the circumstances,
the incentive for the farmer to sell to private traders rather than to OPAM
is strong and it is expected that the bulk of the project's production for
the market would be sold through, such traders (para 3.18). However, as-
surances were obtained from Government that, in the event that it should
exercise its paddv purchasing monopoly in the project area, purchase prices
for paddv would be set with due regard to farmers' incentives to increase
nroduction for the market and to utilize project facilities.



- 18 -
fi.04     The Bank's Economic Department forecasts a world market price for
broken rice of around USA62 ton f.o.b. Rangoon by 1980 (wholesale price
BNamako TTSE115.60). Taking into account milling and handling costs plus
transportation costs to Bamako and wholesale margins, the equivalent paddy
producer price in the project area would be about MF 30,000 (IJS854) per ton,
at which price project production at full development has been valued for
economic and financial purposes. Details of future price calculations are
given in Annex 15.
Farmers' Income
6.n5      Under the project, some 7,3no farmers would grow paddy as compared
to 7,00n  farmers presently in the area.  However, as farmers previously culti-
vating paddy in uncontrolled flooded areas would increase their paddy acreage
from an average 2.6 ha to 4.n ha per farm, and with increased yields, farm-
ers' cash income 1/ would substantially increase as shown in Annex 16 and
summarized below:
Without the Project
In            Outside
Polders          Polders    With the Project
(8,300 ha)     (13,40n ha)    (31,200 ha)
Paddy Area (ha/farm)                    4.n             2.6              4.0
P'addy Yields (ton/ha)                 1.15             0.7             1.86
P'roduction of Paddy (tons/farm)       4.60            1.82             7.44/1
Farmers' Cash Income (MP) /2        1n4,400          15,600          134,940--
Farmers' Total Income (MY)-         131,055          39,700          161,575
Wleighted Average Total Tncome (Mr)          65,670                  161,575
(TTSt equivalent)                       (118)                   (291)
/1   After deduction of project levies.
/2 Equal to cash income plus value of subsistence production.
6i.n6     The increase in total farmers' income from US$118 to US$291 per
amnum at full development in 1982 represents an increase in per capita income
i;n the project area from about TJSA20 to USS50, taking into account the size
of the average farm familv (six persons). Since present per capita GDP in
Mrali is about TTS!55 equivalent and might be expected to rise to US$65 to 70
1wv 1c18?, the project beneficiaries are clearly among the lower income levels
and the project would, therefore, make some contribution to a more equal
Lncome distribution by raising their incomes closer to the national average.
11   Cash income is equal to gross value of production, less family subsis-
tence allowance, hired labor and other production costs.



- 19 -
rIIT. BEIVFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The major benefit of the project would be the additional production
of rice, nrimarily for the domestic market.  Better farm techniques, and ex-
Danded use of equipment would also benefit millet and sorghum production
to some extent. There would be a reduction in grazing areas during the dry
period, caused by draining part of the existing lakes and ponds but this
wrould be largely compensated by the increased production of rice straw.  The
internal rate of return would be 14% with project life assumed at 35 years.
The economic costs exclude all taxes as well as subsidies on equipment and
fertilizers.
7.n2      With expanded rice cultivation and intensified production techniques
under the project, labor renuirements are expected to increase to about
10n,n0n man-days or 14 man-days per farm. The increase would occur mainly
outside peak-oeriods (early plowing, seedbed preparation, weed control) and
could easily be met by the existing family labor force. With the introduc-
tion of threshing machines under the project, no additional hired labor
would be required during the peak period of harvesting when such labor is in
short sup,ly. Wamily labor, outside peak periods, has been costed at zero
since alternative employment opportunities are negligible. As a result, no
labor costs have been imputed to the project. On the other hand, unskilled
labor employed during the construction of civil works has been costed at
current wages, since this labor would have other employment opportunities.
7.0n      The project involves substantial foreign exchange savings from the
substitution of domestic production for imports. At an 8% discount rate, which
is a reasonable rate for Mali, the net foreign exchange benefits over the life
of the project would amount to 7TSt9.5 million. When this is compared with
the net local costs of the project, also discounted at 8%, the effective
exchange rate for the Project is equal to MP 237 per USS, which is consid-
erablv more favorable than the official rate of MF 556 per US dollar.
7.04      To measure the project's sensitivity to major variations in basic
assumptions, several alternative assumptions were tested. Changes in in-
vestment costs, operating costs and crop yields gave the following results:
(a) a 10%, increase in investment costs would reduce the rate of return by
1T! (b) a 20T increase in operating costs would reduce the rate of return by
0.67: and (c) a 15% increase in paddy yields at full development would
raise the rate of return by 3,. Phen combined, these changes would increase
the internal rate of return to 15 to 16%. Other variables such as the length
of the develonment period and prices for paddv were also tested (Annex 17)
but in no case was the return less than about 11%.



- 20 -
VITI. AG`RrFM17S RFACRED AND  ECOMNENDATION
q.oi      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal noints-
(a)  the employment of a management consultants firm to furnish
the services of five qualified and experienced experts to
serve ORM on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (tara 5.05);
(b)  the maintenance of the ORM organization with powers and
authority and with a level of management satisfactory to
the Association for not less than 10 years (para 5.05):
(c) the imposition of a levy on project farmers sufficient to
recover annual operation and maintenance costs and all
direct investments, without interest, over 35 years (para
5.11)! and
(d)  the fixation of a purchase price of paddy in the project
area with due regard to farmers' incentives to increase
iroduction for the market and utilize project
facilities (para 6.03).
R.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit are:
(a)  the establishment of an imprest account for ORM
(para 4.19)
(b)  the emplovment of consultants by RED on terms and con-
ditions satisfactorv to the Association (para 5.02);
andc
(c) the issuance of a decree establishing ORM (para 5.03).
A.03      The proposed Droject constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of TJSq6.( million equivalent.
November n, 1971



MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Rainfall, Temperature, Evaporation and Sunshine in the Project Area
Month:       J     F   M        A     M                  A'   S       O     N      D  TOTAL
Rainfall (MOPTT (Average of 35 years)   m/m       0     0     1      5    25    58   144   191   101    16       1     0   542
(                       Rainy days      0     0   0.2      1   2.6      7    11    13      9.5  2.6  0.3      0   47.2
(SAN (Average of 35 years)      m/m     O     0      4    16    43   102   174   213   129    29       5      0   715
(                       Rainy days      0     0  10.6      2     4      8    11    14 1 10    3.h 10.2        0   53.2
(TENENKOU (Average of 8 years) m/m      2     0      2     9    31    78   117   246    81    12       0      0   578
(                       Rainy days   0.2      0      0     1     1      3     6     7      4     1     0     0   23.2
Temperature MOPTI            (Average temp.    23.5  26.3  29.8   32   32.7   31    28   27.2  27.2  28.0  27.8  22.8
(Average max.     32.1  35.5  38.2  39.9  40.8  38.8   34   31.21 32.6   34    33    31
(Average min.     14.8  17.4  20.3  24.0  24.8  24.0  22.6 122.4  22.6  21.2  17.8   15
Evaporation MOPTI (1947-1963) m/m per day        7.9   9.6  11.9  12.3  10.8   8.2   4.9   2.71  2.9   4.6   6.6   6.9
Evapotranspiration MOPTI (TURC formula) m/m   146   116   206   235   184   162   153   128   157   157   146   134  1924
Sunshine MOPTI (1947-1963) Hours per day         8.0   8.6   8.9   8.7   8.3   8.2   7.4   6.9   7.3   8.6   8.8   7.3
i  I                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~F
_ _ _ _    _     _     _     _.                       _    -.._        _     LI_,






ANNEX 2
Page 2
Niger                     Bani
Catchment area                141,000 kmi2             116,000 km2
Average annual rainfall
in catchment area             1,450 mm                 1,170 mm
Annual flow                   52 billion m3            26 billion m3
Average annual water
level fluctuation           6.7 m (6.0 to 7.0)       8 m (7.2 to 8.6)
Average flow in October         4,800 m3/s               3,000 m3/s
Average annual flow             1,650 m3/s                 820 m3/s
Maximum flow                    5,400 m3/s (Oct 57)      3,570 m3/s (Oct 54)
Minimum flow                       35 m3/s (May 53)         57 m 3/s (June 57)
3.        When it reaches the flood plain near Segou, the Niger overflows
its banks every year. Except for the Bani, the Niger does not receive
any tributary in the flood plain but instead diverts its flow into many
channels, the most important of which is the Diaka which rejoins the Niger
into Lake Debo.
4.        In the project area, the flood starts in June-July and reaches
its maximum in mid-November, and subsidence ends in February-March. At
Mopti the average monthly flow in October and November varies from 2,000
to 2,670 m3/sec while the maximum recorded flow has been 3,080 m3/sec in
November 1924.
Water Supply and Demand
5.        The water supply for the project has been studied not as function
of the available flow of the river which always considerably exceeds the
needs, but as a function of the river level because the elevation of the
water determines conditions for filling ancl draining the polders. At
Mopti the average water surface level is 6.90 m and the variation in height
between the high (7.30 m) and low (6.55 m) flow in a ten-year period is
only 0.75 m. Filling of the polders starts in late August and ends in
early October while draining starts in December. A statistical study of
the flood levels of the Niger and Bani rivers has been carried out. This
study has shown that submersion in the polders can be adequately controlled.
This is evidenced by the following tahle which indicates per polder the
at whitch submerston can be assured 1/.
1/  Of the 29,100 ha of cultivated area under the project, 27,750 ha can be
assured of submersion for 99 years out of 100; the remaining 1,350
ha being assured of submersion 9 years out of 10.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Hydrology, Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Hydrology
1.        The Niger takes its source in the Fouta Djalon mountains in
Guinea at an altitude of 1,500 m and has a total length of 4,200 km which
makes it the second largest river in Africa, being surpassed only by the
Nile. The Niger crosses several countries: Guinea, Mali, Niger, Dahomey
and Nigeria, and it plays an essential role in the economy of these coun-
tries. In the first part of its course, the Niger flows in a north-east
direction to Timbuctu, then eastwards to Gao, from where it runs South to
a wide delta in the Bay of Benin, in the Atlantic Ocean. Geographers
explain this apparently strange drainage path as follows: in the early
quarternary Geologic period, the Niger did not reach the Ocean but spread
its water in a lacustral zone today referred to as the central Delta or
flood plain where the project is located. During one of the last rain
cycles of the quarternary period the Niger was captured by an ancient river
flowing south to the Atlantic Ocean.
2.        The main tributaries of the Niger from its source down to the
project area are the Tinkisso, the Niandan, the Mila and the Sankarini,
all upstream of Bamako and then the Bani which joins the Niger at Mopti.
At the junction of the two rivers the catchment area is 281,000 km2. The
following Table gives some figures for the Niger and the Bani where they
enter the project area (Macina near Segou for the Niger and San for the
Bani).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Polder                               Frequency
0.90        0.99
1.  Mopti-North                      6,800        6,800
2.  Soufouroulaye                     5,800       5,800
3.  Sofara                              700         700
4.  Dia-Tenenkou                      9,500       6,200
5.  Ibetemi                             300         250
6.  Mopti-South                       4,900       4,700
7.  Karbaye                             700         700
8.  Sarantomo Sine                    2,000       2,000
9.  Diambakourou                        600         600
Total                     31,300       27,750
Water Quality
6.        The waters of the Bani and Niger Rivers in the project area are
suitable for rice cultivation, as demonstrated by the following analysis:
dry residue:        0.03-0.10 gr/l
Ph content:         6.5-7.5
mineral content:
phosphate (P705)        0.1 mg/l
potassium oxide (K20)  0.5 mg/i
calcium oxide (CAO)    0.2 mg/i






ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Soils of the Project Area
1.        The rice growing capacity of the soils in the project area are
classified into four different categories:
I.   Soils suitable for rice growing without restrictions;
II.   Soils suitable for rice growing after some improvement;
III.   Soils not very suitable for rice growing; and
IV.   Soils unsuitable for rice growing.
Soils belonging to Category I are divided into three subcategories:
I-l    Deep soils, fertile, rich in humus, with a good
structure and a fine texture;
1-2    Soils with a depth of 10 to 30 cm, rather fertile,
slightly humic with a coarse texture near the surface
and a fine texture in depth. Grey soils, poor organic
matter but rich enough in nitrogen and phosphates,
10 to 20 cm deep with a fine texture near the surface,
very fine texture in depth; and
I-3    Soils with a depth of 10 to 20 cm, rather fertile,
slightly humic with a coarse texture near the surface
and a fine texture in depth. Grey soils, poor in
organic matter and phosphates but rich enough in
nitrogen, 10 cm deep where the texture is coarse.
20 to 30 cm. deep where the texture is medium.
Deep layers have always a fine texture. Grey soils
and humic soils with a pH of 7 to 7.5 and a fine
texture.
Soils belonging to Category II include three different types:
(a) Light grey soils, with a low fertility, poor in
organic matter and phosphates but rich enough in
nitrogen, 10 to 20 cm deep where the texture is
coarse in surface, medium in depth or 30 to 50 cm
deep where the texture is medium in surface and fine
in depth;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b)  Light grey soils, neutral or slightly basic (calcic
soils) texture belonging to various types; and
(c) Light beige soils which have been washed, poor in
organic matter, nitrogen and phosphates, 10 to 20 cm
deep with a coarse texture near the surface and a
medium to fine texture in depth.
Soils belonging to Category III are not very suitable for rice cultivation.
Their characteristics are:
Light grey soils of low fertility, poor in organic
matter, nitrogen and phosphates, often washed soils,
20 to 80 cm deep where the texture is coarse, 20 to
80 cm deep where the texture is very coarse, deep
layers having a medium to fine texture.
Soils belonging to Category IV are unsuitable for rice cultivation.
This class includes soils of sandy texture, highly
permeable with low fertility, 80 cm or more deep.
2.        For the different polders of the project area, the pedological
study gives the following classification:
Unsur-
veyed
Ii     I2              II    III    IV  Lands      TOTAL
South Mopti               3,980    570      20    270  130              4,970
Ibetemi                     700                                           700
Karbaye                     500            210                            710
Di.ambakourou               195            395                            590
Sarantomo-Sine      155   4,360  1,590      70       5                  6,180
Dia               1,370     760      40                                 2,170
Tenenkou          2,650   1,230                    180                  4,060
Sofara                      290    220    220                             730
North Mopti               2,940    240  1,460  1,100          1,060     6,800
Soufouroulaye       125   5,530      80             40  -               5,775
Total       4,300  20,485  2,740  2,375  1,595  130  1,060    32,685
% of Total      13      63       8      7       5   -       4        100



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Organization and Operation of Agricultural Credit
1.        The agricultural credit organization, "SCAER" (Service for
Agricultural Credit and Supply of Rural Equipment), was founded in 1964
and placed under the authority of the Development Bank of Mali as its
specialized agricultural credit and supply division. From its inception,
SCAER has incurred substantial losses as a result of:
(a) indequate administration and inventory-maintenance;
(b) absence of a field organization which could supervise
credits and collect repayments;
(c) Government price-fixing policy. The fixed prices
were too low to meet SCAER's expenses, risks, or
even c.i.f. prices Bamako. Though SCAER received
subsidies from the Government to sell equipment at
prices lower than the real cost prices, these subsidies
were insufficient to fully bridge the differences
between SCAER cost prices and its selling prices to
farmers;
(d) Government intervention in the selection of borrowers;
and
(e) absence of a supervised credit system and of coordination
of SCAER's activities with those of the agricultural
extension services.
2.        On April 14, 1971, following recommendations of a study on the
reorganization of agricultural credit in Mali, prepared by the French
"Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique" (CCCE), SCAER was converted
by ordinance into a State Company (Societe d'Etat). The main differences
from the previous situation are that:
(a) SCAER has obtained legal and financial autonomy,
enabling it to use the central bank's rediscount
facilities;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) SCAER's activities have been redefined; it will
act only as the central supply agency for fertilizers
and small farm equipment and will not be in charge
of any credit operations. Responsibility for providing
agricultural credit has been passed to the Operations,
to whom SCAER will still supply the requested farm
inputs. Outside the areas of the Operations, SCAER
will keep its distribution channels, but only for
cash sales to farmers; and
(c) since its reorganization, SCAER has obtained technical
assistance from CCCE as a result of which its financial
administration has been substantially improved.
3.        As the Operations have a capable field organization, the collec-
tion of repayments has substantially improved since the responsibility
fior agricultural credit was turned over to them. However, some major
problems still remained unresolved at the time of the appraisal mission's
visit to Mali:
(a) The problem of financing SCAER's supply activities. Although
the Operations now administer agricultural credit, the burden
of financing farm inputs sold on credit still rests with
SCAER. SCAER has never had sufficient working capital of
its own to finance its activities and has always relied on
direct Government assistance (mostly provided through the
central bank) or on aid from external resources;
(b) The existence of subsidized interest rates. In the Operation
Cotton, no interest is charged on short-term credit for
fertilizers and farm implements; in the Operation Rice,
an interest of 3% per annum is charged on the unpaid
balance, if medium-term credit (2-3 years) for farm im-
plements is provided. This would become a major cause for
SCAER losses in the future if, in the absence of financing
through grants from internal or external sources, SCAER
would have to rely on its rediscounting facilities at the
central bank of Mali, which charges a minimum interest rate
of 3.5%. The Government has, however, not yet taken a
decision in this matter; and
(c) The subsidy element in SCAER's selling prices for farm
inputs. The Government has in the past set SCAER
selling prices at a level which is between 6 and 25%
lower than SCAER's calculated cost price (see Table 1
of this Annex). Although it is the Government's intention
to gradually reduce subsidies and has accorded to SCAER
a 14% increase over its 1970 selling prices, farm inputs



ANNEX 4
Page 3
would continue to be sold at subsidized prices at least
in the early stages of project implementation. The
Government has been unable to provide the mission with
quantified estimates on the amount of subsidies needed
for fertilizers and farm implements, required over the
project period.
4.        Under the project, SCAER would supply farm inputs to ORM, which
would provide short-term credit (8-9 months) for seeds and fertilizers,
and medium-term creidt (2-3 years) for ox-drawn farm implements. A list
of farm implements required under the project and valued at SCAER's
calculated cost prices for 1971 has been presented in Table 2 of this
Annex. SCAER intends to purchase farm implements from a Malian/French
company which would assemble equipment imported from France in a newly
constructed plant, financed by the French bilateral aid (FAC). The
purchase of this equipment, estimated at US$0.5 million, spread over six
years, would be financed by the Government. Other equipment requirements
under the project, estimated at US$0.7 million, would be purchased by
SGAER under international competitive bidding and would be financed by
IDA.






MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Subsidized Selling Price. for Farm Requisites
(Mali Franos)
Price c.i.f. Bamako     Calculated Cost Price/   Selling Price 1970        Selling Price 1971
Plough                   F.M.   19,299              F.M.  22,921              F.M.  18,430            F.M. 23,600-
Multi-Cultivator           "    27,615               n   32,481                 "   20,000              "  25,600
Set of wheelss 500 pd.axle"     25,066                "   29,685                "   22,190              "  28,800
Set of reels 1,000 pd "  '"   30,727                  "   36,307                it  25,555              "  32,800
Sprayer"                          9,374               "   11,511                "   16,500              "  16,500
Harrow                     "    16,966                "   20,013                     13,455                 17,300
Inter-row Cultivator       "    19,928                "   23,393                "   13,500              "  17,300
Super phosphatel/    per ton   31,320               F.M.  38,905               F.M.  40,000            F.M. 40,000
6.20.10                   "      45,020              "   53,883                 "   32,000              "  34,000
Ammonium-phosphate              60,806                    75,270                n   66,700                  70,000
Ammonium-sulphate         "     45,990               n    55,730                "   50,000 0                52,500
Potassium Sulphate              59,600               "   72,984                 n    63,000             n  66,000
Urea                      It    59,200               n    72,288                n   60,000              "  63,000
Insecticides          per'kg       473             per kg    565.62          per kg    310           per kg   400
1/ Not subsidized.
2/ Including CIF cost plus SCAER expenses on handling, storage, distribution and administrative overheads (the latter
based on SCAERts operating costs and output during 1970).
4I :t-
olI



ANNEX 4
Table 2
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Farm Implement Requirements
(Cost in Mali Francs Millions)l/
1972       1973        1974        1975       1976       1977       TOTAL
Ox-drawn Farm Implements
Plows        Quantity        513         868         947       1,078       1,030      1,031     5,467
(Cost)      (15.4)      (26.0)      (28.4)     (32.3)      (30.9)    (31.0)    (164.0)
Cultivators  Quantity        224         355         450         520         618        700     2,867
(Cost)       (4.5)       (7.1)       (9.0)      (10.4)    (12.4)    (14.0)       (57.4)
Harrows      Quantity         74          95        225          304         354        455     1,507
(Cost)       (1-7)       (2.2)      (5.3)        (7.1)      (8.3)    (10.6)      (35.2
Ox-.Carts    Quantity         24          29         107         157         184        234        735
(Cost)       (1.2)       (1.4)       (5.2)        (7.6)     (8.9)    (11.3)      (35.6)
TOTAL COST             (22.8)      (36.7)     (47.9)       (57. 4)     6        (66.9)    (292.2)
'/ Vs1ed at SCAER's calculated cost prices (see Table 1 of this Annex).
Note: Quantity requirements are estimated on the basis of (a) presently available equipment;
(b) amortization periods of 10 years for each implement; and (c) number of project
farmers and timing of their participation in the project.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALI
MDPTI RICE PROJECT
Project Works
Construction of New Polders
1.        The proposed construction of three new polders, Mopti North
(11,300 gross ha with 6,800 ha for rice), Soufouroulaye (8,000 gross ha
with 5,800 ha for rice) and Sofara (800 gross ha with 700 ha for rice) would
involve essentially embankments, intake regulators with fish screen and flood
gauges, canals within both for filling and drainage, farm roads and cattle
crossings.
2.        The embankments would be built with slopes of 2 to 1 on all
sides except along the Niger and Bani rivers where the slopes would be 3 to
1 to protect from the effects of wave action. The free-board allowance
would be 0.50 m for the hundred-year flood. The crest width would be at
least 3 meters on all embankments used for access roads to the polders.
Transverse embankments would be built to divide the Soufouroulaye polder into
three sections in order to reduce the depth of water within each section
thereby increasing the area suitable for rice cultivation.
3.        The intakes have been designed in order to limit the rise in
the water level within the polders to a point compatible with optimum rice
production. The maximum daily rise will vary from 3 cm when the depth of
water in the polder is less than 0.60 m to 5 cm when this depth exceeds
1.00 m. The intake structure will also be used for emptying the polders
after the flood recess.
4.        Canals within the polders have been designed to improve the
operations of filling and draining. Where practicable secondary canals would
also be excavated to drain low lying ponds.
5.        The polders would be divided into rectangular plots of 12-ha
(400 x 300 m) separated by a right of way. Concrete markers would be
installed within the polders to indicate farm boundaries.
6.        Access from the villages to grazing lands within the polders would
be ensured by reserving 50 meter-wide passages delineated by reinforced
concrete block one meter high above ground level. In addition, the northern
limits of Mopti North polder have been selected in order to leave a one-km
wide passage between this polder and the Karbaye polder for transhumant
cattle (see Map 2).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
7.        Estimated construction quantities for the construction of the
polders are presented in Table 1.
Polder Rehabilitation
8.        Rehabilitation works would be carried out on four existing polders
(Map 1): Dia Tenenkou (9,000 gross ha with 7,500 ha for rice), Ibetemi
(750 ha with 300 ha for rice) South Mopti (7,000 gross ha with 4,700 ha
for rice) and Karbaye (740 gross ha with 700 for rice).
9.        The works would involve:
(a)  At Dia Tenenkou (see Table 1 for estimate of quantities):
(i)  raising and enlarging the embankments to bring them to
the standards adopted for the construction of new polders;
(ii)  construction of an intake regulator with a flood gauge
and fish screen. A specialized consultant would be
employed to make recommendations for siting this intake
in order to avoid the formation of a sand bar which
would reduce its capacity;
(iii) construction of canals to Improve filling and draining;
(iv)  division of the polder into 12-ha plots separated by
farm roads 3 m wide; and
(v)  making provisions for 50 m-wide access to grazing lands
within the polder.
(b) At Ibetemi:
(i)  strengthening the embankments to bring them to the
standards adopted for the new polders;
(ii)  deepening the canals;
(iii) installing stop-logs at the intakes; and
(iv)  dividing the polder into 12-ha plots.
(c) at Mopti-South:
(i) constructing a lateritic base course on the most
frequently used portion of the embankment to improve
driving conditions; and



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(ii) improving the slope protection by regrading and adding
a layer of compacted lateritic material on the most
exposed sections of the embankment.
(d) at Karbaye:
(i) strengthening the embankments to bring them to the
standards adopted for the new polders;
(ii) excavating canals to improve filling and draining; and
(iii) closing two intakes which are unnecessary for proper
filling and draining and which were wrongly located.
Construction of a Seed Multiplication Farm
and of an Agricultural Research Station
10.       A 180-ha seed multiplication farm and a 50-ha agricultural
research station would be built with separate embankments to be constructed
in the Southwest portion of the Mopti-North polder (see Map 2). The works
would involve the construction of:
(a) the main embankment encircling the farm and the station;
(b) secondary embankment to divide the station into four plots;
(c) one main intake regulator; and
(d) secondary regulators for filling and draining the farm
and the four plots of the station.
Land Preparation
11.       The land preparation works would involve deep plowing in the
areas where cultivation has not been in effect in order to destroy the
existing vegetation and to achieve a certain degree of land leveling. These
works would be carried out in the following polders: Mopti North (4,000 ha),
Soufouroulaye (2,800 ha) Dia Tenenkou (1,500 ha) and Sarantomo-Sine (2,000
ha).
Construction of Buildings
12.       The following buildings would be constructed:
(a) in the polders: eight facilities each combining an office
and shed: 3 at Soufouroulaye, one at Dia, one at Tenenkou,
one at Sarantomo, one at Mopti North and one at Sofara;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(b) in the polder villages: three facilities for the section
head officers, each combining an office and a house: one
at:Tenenkou, one at Mopti and one at Sarantomo;
(c) at Sevare:
ti) for ORM: six houses for the Director and management
staff, 13 offices and 4 sheds;
(ii) for the second stage studies: three houses, one
office and one shed;
(d) at Mopti:
(i) for the seed multiplication farm: 2 sheds and one
office; and
(ii) for the agricultural experiment station: one house,
one office and one shed.
September 17, 1971



ANNEX 5
Table 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Estimated Construction Quantities for the Main Polders
Intake
Polders        Embankments        Canals       Regulators
m3              m3            Units
Mopti North             550,000       120,000           2
Soufouroulaye           290,000       150,000           3
Sofara                   70,000        10,000           1
Dia Tenenkou            140,000        60,000           1
Total      1,050,000        340,000           7
September 17, 1971






ANNEX 6
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Second Stage Studies
1.        It is the intention of the Government that the Mopti project would
be the first stage of a more extended program of polder development in the
area of the Niger flood plain, and the Government proposes to commence
implementation of the second-stage project as soon as works on the first
stage have been completed. It would therefore be necessary to start feasibi-
lity studies on the second-stage project while the first stage is being
implemented.
2.        The feasibility study would comprise an area of approximately
40,000 ha in order to select the most suitable polder locations for about
20 to 25,000 ha (Map 1). The study is estimated to take approximately 2
years and would cover the items listed below. Headquarters for carrying out
the study will be established in Mopti, near the office of Operation Rice.
As there are no housing facilities available, as a part of project an office,
three houses and a small shed will be constructed and equipped. Other
equipment (three cars, one boat, flood gauges and topographical equipment)
will also be purchased for the study.
3.        The study will essentially involve:
(a)  topographic mapping to be carried out under contract by
specialized firms including:
(i) airphotos on a scale of 1/20,000 over an area of
220,000 ha;
(ii) topographic surveys of approximately 40,000 ha at
a scale of 1/10,000 with an average density of one
point for four hectares;
(iii)  longitudinal profiles (one point every 50 meters)
and cross sections (one every 200 meters) of
the proposed dikes and canals on a total length
of approximately 180 km;
(b) soil studies to be carried out by contract, including the
preparation of land classification maps over an area of
40,000 ha at a scale of 1/50,000. The criteria for soil
classification (structure, texture, depth of surface layer,
organic matter content and hydromorphic intensity) would
be those established by the FAO for the region;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c) Hydrologic and hydraulic studies to be carried out by the
Rural Engineering Department of the Ministry of Production
with the assistance of consultants. The hydrologic study
carried out by FAO mission of 1966 will essentially be
adequate for the purpose of the feasibility study; in order
to determine the slight irregularity of the water surface,
however, a flood gauge will be installed at, and measure-
ments made for, each of the proposed polders. The hydraulic
studies will include the design of the polders to be carried
out to the tendering stage, following the standards estab-
lished by the FAO with respect to the height of the dikes,
the water flow conditions through the gates, the timing of
the submersion and the delineation of the areas suitable for
the main rice varieties;
(d) a health survey of the project area, to be carried out by
the Ministry of Public Health with the assistance of
consultants. Data will be obtained on the prevalence
of malaria, amebiasis and schistosomiasis and the
influence of project implementation on health conditions;
(e) Socio-economic studies to be carried out by the Rural
Economic Institute of the Ministry of Production with the
assistance of consultants. Data will be obtained on:
{i) human resources: population of villages, labor force,
number of families and their distribution by activities;
(ii) agricultural production of crops cultivated in the polder
areas, including forage crops, floating and irrigated
rice as well as upland crops cultivated by the farmers
outside the polders;
(iii) farmers' equipment including draught animals, equipment
for draught cultivation and other owned and rented
equipment;
(iv) marketing possibilities;
(f) All-weather road study. In view of the proposed rice development
of 12,000 ha in the vicinity of Tenenkou, a large village of
the left bank of the river, a study will be made by the Rural
Engineering Department for an all-weather road between Macina
and Tenenkou (Map 1), and will include:
(i) layout of the road, based on existing documents,
particularly airphotos and topographical maps at a
scale of 1/20,000 available at the "Office du Niger";



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(ii)  topographical surveys:  longitudinal profile of the
road on approximately 90 km and cross section where
necessary;
(iii)  soils engineering studies for selecting the most
economic construction materials; and
(iv)  economic aspects including present and future traffic
and estimate of costs.






AR4EX 7
CC   -,               4   C
I'     III
C II
4                I  I            liii               I                    II
4         I                                         I
C         I                                         U                    ii
I                                       II                  I
4   -C  CC           I.   C  C
C C C C CCCC
C.    CC                      C

CCC                C             C   V
C          '    2
C C C C              C.C!!  C
VI                      C C CCC ,,,,,    I                                               II






ANNEX 8
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Health Conditions in the Project Area
Public Health Problems
1.        The major health problem in Mopti is malaria.  Over 3,000 cases
are diagnosed per month at the Health Center, but there is no national
program against it. The second major problem includes water-borne diseases
such as amebiasis and cholera. There is no public water supply in Mopti
and no financing is available at present, although a plan for water supply
has been prepared.
2.        The disease next in importance is schistosomiasis, with about 100
cases a month diagnosed at the Health Center. Many persons suffer severe
complications when schistosome eggs damage the urinary system; almost all
infections are Schistosoma haematobium.
3.        Hookworm is also common in the region, but not too many of the
other intestinal parasites are found. There is virtually no onchocercaiasis
(river blindness), it being confined geographically to the southern portion
of Mali where the rivers are suitable for breeding of the vector (black fly).
Available Health Care
4.        There are two centers providing health care -- the Secondary
Hospital and the Health Center. These share a common diagnostic laboratory.
The Health Center provides general outpatient care and refers schistosomiasis
patients to the hospital for treatment. The Health Center issues a monthly
report on communicable disease incidence.
5.        The small hospital is directed by a physician who feels that not
much can be done about schistosomiasis. He regularly prescribes Ambilhar for
therapy but does not usually give Fuadin to infected persons. Few people
can afford the drugs he prescribes and he does not perform any of the more
complicated or new surgical techniques for schistosomiasis, his treatment
being primarily for the symptons (fever, pains and such) except where
surgery is required due to complications caused by the eggs.
6.        The Director of the Hospital estimates that over half the people
have Schistosoma haematobium infections, and the prevalence may be as high
as 80%.  There is no program of schistosomiasis control anywhere in Mali,
although the disease is common all along the Niger River.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Survey Findings and Conclusions
7.        A survey was conducted in May 1971 by Dr. Wm. R. Jobin (Consultant)
to investigate the present epidemiology of schistosomiasis and to estimate
the effect of the proposed rice project on transmission of the disease.
Its findings are discussed below.
8.        Distribution of Snails.  During the entire survey no trace was
found of the planorbid snails, which harbor Schistosoma mansoni, agent of
the disease known as la bilharziose vesicale, nor were the bulinid snails,
transmitters of Schistosoma haematobium (la bilharziose urinaire) found in
the Niger or Bani Rivers. Bulinid snails were found in all the casiers,
however, generally in ponds with heavy vegetation (water lilies). Since
May is the driest time of the year, very few snails were recovered.
9.        It was not expected that the Niger and Bani Rivers would be
free of snails, and the single inspection made is not absolute proof that
the snails do not colonize them. However, the appearance of the rivers in
May, the time of the year when they should be most suitable for snails,
inadicates that there is little likelihood that snails or transmission of
schistosomiasis occur in the river around Mopti.
1O.       Seasonal Pattern of Transmission.  Since there is considerable
transmission in Mopti, it seems most likely that it occurs during the winter
months when there is water everywhere and when the snails that carry the
d:Lsease have had several months of temperatures favorable for reproduction.
The maximum snail population probably occurs in November or December, with
perhaps another smaller peak in March. This is roughly similar to the
situation observed in Northern Ghana (McCullough, 1962).
11.       The low point in numbers of snails is likely to be May or June
whien the only areas that still contain water are the scattered depressions
or ponds, about two or three per 1,000 hectares. There may not be any
living bulinids in the water by this time, since the last breeding was in
March, and four months of normal mortalities at high temperatures will have
reduced the peak population by about 99%. However, there will be many snails
stranded in some damp or protected spot, waiting for the flood in September
tc, revive them for a short time, when they will lay thousands of eggs and
then die. Similar conditions have been observed in Upper Volta (McMullen
and Francotte, 1962).
12.       Control of Schistosomiasis in Mopti.  Although schistosomiasis
ranks only fourth as a public health problem in Mopti, there would be con-
siderable benefit resulting from its control. Agricultural workers would
be able to do more work in a day, they would be better developed physically
and mentally, and there would be fewer days per year that they would be
unable to work because of illness. A preliminary estimate was made of the
cost for controlling the snails in the casiers by chemicals and it was found
to be prohibitively high. It would be necessary to apply chemicals in
December and possibly again in March in order to significantly reduce the
snail populations. The amount of water to be treated at these times would



ANNEX 8
Page 3
be immense and the chemical costs would be over US$5 per hectare for each
treatment, even if very inexpensive methods of application were used.
Undoubtedly, several applications would be needed, resulting in a cost of
millions of dollars for an effect that might be temporary.
13.       A better method of control for this area would be the gradual
elimination of the small water holes by filling or draining, leaving a few
of the larger ones for the watering of cattle. These should have their
shores filled so that the marshy areas around them are reduced and the shore
line steeper. The net effect of this process would increase the area under
rice cultivation and reduce the extent of snail survivial through the
drought period. Combined with the thorough plowing and preparation of the
land proposed for the later years of the project, this should cause substan-
tial reductions in the extent of bulinus populations. It is important that
the inverts of the drainage canals be smooth, with no depressions to hold
water during the dry season.
14.       Other methods for schistosomiasis control would be of little
value in Mopti (McMullen et al, 1962). There is virtually no chance of
reducing water contact or water pollution by any practical means. Chemo-
therapy with the available drugs is not without its dangers and should not
be attempted as a preventive measure under the conditions of health care
presently existing. Provision of additional health care could contribute
to the maintenance of lower levels of clinical severity among infected
individuals and ease suffering. In combination with an agressive snail
control program, it could assist in reducing the opportunity for re-infection.
September 17, 1971






ANNEX 9
MALI                                  Table 1
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
MF--NP (Millions)-------            --------US$ ('000)-----------
Local      Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign       Total
Civil Wbrks                       591J190                2.149       1,720        2,140        3j860
Enbankments and Canals           423          691        1,.14         760       1,240        2,000
Intake Regulators                122          139          261         220          250          470
Deep Plowing                     156          255          411         280          460          740
Buildings                        258          105          363         460          190          650
Engineering Supervision           39           85          124          70          150          220
Agricultural Research            130          118          248         230          210          440
Transportation and
Research Equipment               4           31           35           7           50           57
Office and Laboratory
Equipment                        7           U1           18          11           20           31
Personnel Expenditures            83           60          143         150          110          260
Operating Costs                   36           16           52          62           30           92
Farn Machinery                    76          439          5           140          790          930
Ox-drawn Farm Implements          67          225          292         120          410          530
ORM Equipment                      9          214          223          20          380          400
Management and Extension
Services                       443          516          259         800          930       1,730
Transportation Equipment          22           37           59          40           70          110
Office and Workshop
Equipment                       20           28           48          30           50           80
Salaries Expatriate
Personnel                       -           353          353          -           640          640
Salaries Local Personnel         297           -           297         540           -           540
Operating Costs                  104           98          202         190          170          360
Second-Stage Studies             142          224          366         260          400          660
Equipment                          5           17           22          10           30           40
Topography and Soil Surveys       71          119          190         130          210          340
Feasibility Study                 66           88          154         120          160          280
Contingencies]                   315          562          877         570        1010         1,580
TOTAL   2,104         3,134         5,238      3,790        5,630        9,420
1/ See Annex 9, Page 2.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Calculation of Contingencies
MF (millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
rvil  works
Phvsic4-                               72            168            240
Price2/                                65            152            217
Engineering Supervision
Phvsicali/                              4              8             12
Price2/                                 5             10             15
Farm Machinery
Price/                                  9             70             79
Agricultural Research
5:/
Physig a5                               -              2              2
Priced/                                25             22             47
Management, Extension Services
Price6/                               110             80            190
Second Phase Studies
Physical3/                             11             22             33
Price2/                                14             28             42
SUB-TOTAL PHYSICAL        87            200            287
SUB-TOTAL PRICE          228            362            590
TOTAL      315            562            877
US$  EQUIVAIENT ('000)       570          1,010          1,580
1/ 15% for embankments, canals and intake regulators; 10% for buildings.
2/ 8% per year.
3/ 10% per year.
I:/ C'umulative 5% per year.
g/ 5% on equipment.
~/ 10% on equipment purchases; cumulative 6% per year on salaries
expatriate and local personnel; cumulative 8% per year on
operating costs.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Calculation of Taxes and Custos Duties
(MF Millions)
On Civil Works                                      443
Embankments, Canals (23%)                         256
Intake Regulators (15%)                            39
Deep Plowing (22%)                                 90
Buildings (16%)                                    58
On FNgineering supervision                            3
On-Farr Machinery                                     1
Individual Farm Equipment                           -
Collective Farm Equipment (0.6%)                    1
On Agricultural Research                             19
Transportation and Research Equipment (13%)         3
Office and Laboratory Equipment (29%)               5
Operating Costs (20%)                              11
On Management, Extension Services                    70
Transportation Equipment (26%)                     15
Office and Workshop Equipment (29%)                15
Operating Costs (20%)                              40
On Second-Phase Studies (6.6%)                       24
TOTAL          _60
US$ EQUIVALENT        1,010



ANNEqX9
MALI                                 Table
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Operation Rice Hopti: Salaries and Personnel Development
Unit /
Cost                            -Years----------------------
A) Expatriate Personnel            (NF'OOO)      1t72     !7,b      ly74      iVW                1977
Financial Officer                12,635         1        1         1         1        1         1
Training Officer                 15,557         1        1         1         1        -         -
Supply Officer                   15,557         1        1         1        1         1         _
Mechanical Engineer              17,850         1                  1 1                 -        -
Mechanic                         12,635         1         1        1         -         -
Misc. Expertise (man months)    2,800           2         2        2         2         2        _
Unit2/
Cost
B) Local Personnel3                (MF'OOO)      1972      1973     1974      1972      1976     1277
1. At Headquarters
Project Director                  1,400         1        1         1        1         1         1
Financial Assistant                 700         1        1         1        1         1         1
Personnel Officer                   750         1        1         1        1         1         1
Assistant Training Officer          720        1         1         1        1         1         1
Assistant Supply Officer            720        1         1         1        1         1         1
Assistant Maintenance Rag.          850         1        1         1         1        1         1
Assistant Mechanical Eng.           720         1        1         1         1        1         1
Statistician                        700        1         1         1        1         1         1
Admninistrati-e Personnel           150        5         7         8        8         8         8
2. In the Field
Section Head Officer                925         1        3         4         4        4         4
Polder Head Officer                 840         3        4         5         5        5         5
Assistant Section Read              690         1        3         4         4         4        4
Maintenance Officer                 620         3        4         5         5         5        5
Technical Assistant                 500         5       10        15        16       19        19
Extension Agent                     300        24       45        66        74        79       80
Mechanic                            300         2        3         4         4        h         4
Administrative Officer              350         3        5         6         7         7        7
Other Admin. Personnel              150         2         8        8         9         9        9
1/  "Unit cost expatriate personnel" includes estitated basic salary for 1972 plus home-travel
costs, plus 15% general overhead.
2/ "'nit cost local personnel" includes estimated basic salary for 1972 plus premiums, plus
social overhead (averaging 20%).
3/ Local personnel at headquarters, working as counterpart to expatriates, would replace
expatriate personnel at the end of their stay as specified above; a 25% increase in
salary as a result of such promotion has been included.



MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
OPERATION RICE MOPTI: COST ESTIMATES
(Mali Franc Million)
Of Which Foreign Exchange
Salaries                            1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977     TOTAL       MF Million        iEt'000
Expatriate Personnel                79.8      79.8     79.8      67.2     33.8      12.6     353.0          353.0            635
Local Personnel (Headquarters)       7.3       7.6      7.8       8.0      8.3       8.9      47.98.-
Local Personnel (Field)             17.6      33.0     45.6      49.0     52.0      52.2     249.4            -               -
SUB-TOTAL      104.7    120.4    133.2    124.2       94.1      73.7     650.3          353.0            635
Operating Costs
House and Office Rental              1.7       4.1      4.1       4.1      3.5       2.3      19.8            -               _
Car Operation/Maintenance           20.9      25.1     25.2      25.2     24.9      24.2     145.5           77.1            140
Operating Expenditures (office,
electricity, etc.)                 3.7       4.6      4.7       4.7      4.7       4.7      27.1           15.1             27
Maintenance Buildings                0.7       1.5      1.9       1.9      1.9       1.9        9.8           5.3             10
SUB-TOTAL       27.0      35.3     35.9      35.9     35.0      33.1     202.2           97.4            177
Contingencies
1/
On Salaries Expatriate Personnel;-             4.8      9.6      12.7      8.5       4.0      39.6           39.6             71
On Salaries Local Nrsonne1           1.5       5.0     10.2      13.0     20.4      25.6       75.7           -               -
On Operating Costs.e/                2.2       5.9      9.3      12.9     16.4      19.4      66.1           31.7             57
SUB-TOTAL        3.7      15.7     29.1      38.6     45.3      49.0     181.4           71.3            128
TOTAL      135.4    171.4    198.2    198.7    174.4    155.8   1,033.9             521.7            940
l/  Cumulative 6% per year.
2/ Cumulative 8% per year.






ANNEX 10
NALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
(Us$ t000)
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976       1977      TOTAL
Civil Works                     829     2107         781       143         -          -       3.860
Edbankmsnts, Canals            335      13,406       259        -          -          -       2,000
Intake Regulators                -        421         49        -          -          -         470
Deep Plowing                     -        280        317       143         -          -         740
Buildings                      494        -          156        -          -          -         650
Engineering Supervision         69         87         58         6         -                    220
Equipment                      450         98        363       103        114        120      1,248
Ox-drawn Farm Equipnents         41        66         86       103        114        120         530
ORM Equipeieat                 155        -          245         -         -          -         400
Niscallanaous Equipment        254         32         32        -          -          -         318
Personnel Expenditures         233        264        284       268        213        178      1,1440
Operation Rice Mopti            190       220        240       225        170        135      1,180
Agricultural Research
Station                       43         44         44        43         43         43        260
Operating Costs                  74        94         97        67         63         57        452
Operation Rice Mopti             59        79         82         52        47         41        360
Agricultural Research
Station                       15         15         15        15         16         16         92
Second-Stage Studies            215       393         12        -          -          -         620
Contingencies                   265       624        336       142        107        106      1,08
Physical Contingencies          115       296         92        17         -          -          520
Price Contingencies            150        328        244       125        107        106      1,060
TOTAL   2,135      3,667     1,931        729        497       461       9,1420






MALI                                   ANNEX 11
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
List of Equipment to be Financed by IDA
Quantity    Unit Price  Total    Grand
CIF BAMAKO            Total
A)  ORM Equipmentl/
Seeders (ox-drawn)                          224            110      24.6
Threshers (engine included)                  55          4,850     266.8
Tractors (50 HP)                             24          3,200      76.8
Trailers                                     24            770      18.5      386.7
B)  Farm Equipment for Research Station
and Seed Farm
Tractors (100 HP)                             2          9,200      18.4
Disk Plows                                     2           950        1.9
Thresher                                      1          4,850       4.9
Trailers                                      3          1,000       3.0
Small Threshers                               2          2,000       4.0
Miscellaneous Equipment                        -           -         26.7      58.9
C) Workshop Equipment/
Generating Equipment                          1          7,900       7.9
Lathe                                          1         8,300        8.3
Welding Equipment                              1         3,560        3.6
Hydraulic Press (70 tons)                     1          1,100       1.1
Miscellaneous Equipment                        -           -          4.2      25.1
D)  Transportation Equipment3
Four-Wheel Drive                             15          3,800      57.0
Station Wagons                                 4         3,000      12.0
Pickups (Bache-type)                           7         3,400      23.8
Small Trucks                                   2         4,500        9.0
Small Cars                                    6          1,900      11.14
Outboard Motors                               11           600        6.6
Motorized Bicvcle                             22           220        4.8
Bicycles                                      80            65       5.2      129.8
E) Office and Laboratory Equipment
For the Operation Rice Mopti                                        25.0
For the Agricultural Research Station                               19.0
For the Second-Stage Studies                                        11.0       55.0
TOTAL     655.5
1/ 10% for spare parts included.
2/ For ORM.
3/ For the Agricultural Research Station and seed farm, "ORM" organization and the study
team for the second-stage project.






ANNEX 12
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                     Cumulative Disbursement
-and Quarter                                          at end ofl Quarter
_ n  Quar                             _    ~~~~~~~~~(US$ too0)
1972/73
September 30, 1972
December 31, 1972                                              300
March 31, 1973                                                 700
June 30, 1973                                                1,200
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                           1,700
December 31, 1973                                            2,450
March 31, 1974                                               3,050
June 30, 1974                                               3,700
1974M75
September 30, 1974                                          4,300
December 31, 1974                                           5,o50
March 31, 1975                                               5,450
June 30, 1975                                               5,900
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                          6,1oO
December 31, 1975                                           6,350
March 31, 1976                                               6,450
June 30, 1976                                               6,5600
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                          6,600
December 31, 1976                                           6,650
March 31, 1977                                               6,700
June 30, 1977                                               6,750
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                          6,800
December 31, 1977                                           6,850
March 31, 1978                                              6,900
June 30, 1978






ANNEX 13
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for RED Consultants
Terms of Reference
1.        The Consulting engineering firm would be required to work under
the general direction of the Rural Engineering Department (RED) of the
Ministry of ?roduction. The Consultant shall agree to accept full responsi-
bility for the technical adequacy and quality of engineering and other
services as described hereinafter. This responsibility shall cover all
investigations and designs already performed and to be performed.
2.        The scope of work to be done by consultants would include:
(a) Review of final designs and contract documents prepared by
RED and assistance in preparation of final designs and contract
documents still to be prepared as described in the feasibility
study, including additional studies or investigations as
required;
(b) Assistance in preparing invitations to bid on all civil work
and building contracts, including prequalification of bidders
if necessary, with bid analysis and recommendations to RED
on award of contracts following the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits";
(c) Technical supervision of all construction works including
recommendations to RED regarding the acceptance of completed
works;
(d) Assistance in preparing reports and documents related to
progress of construction and financing of all works
supervised by the Consultant as required by IDA; and
(e) Certification of all withdrawal applications from the credit
account for civil works.
Time Schedule
3.        The services described above shall be completed by the Consultants
in about 4 years (1972/1975). Design drawings and contract documents for
the main civil works and buildings should be completed in December 1971 in
time to permit commencement of works in June 1972.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
IPersonnel
4.        Tentative staff requirements of the Consultant, in addition to
qualified Malian technicians assigned to him by RED are prescribed below:
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
--------------man/months--------- - -
Chief Planning
Engineer             1       12      12       6
Supervision
Engineer             -        4      12      10
Cost Estimates
5.        Tentative cost estimates for Consultants and Malian technicians
are given below:
MF Million
(a)  Wages of technical personnel
including overhead:
-    31 months at MF 1,900,000/month    58.9
-    26 months at MF 1,700,000/month    44.1
(b) Malian personnel
(200 man/months at 70,000/month)        14.0
(c)  Transportation, local operating costs    7.0
Total               124.0
September 17, 1971



MAL I
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Cultivated Area, YfSjs and Production-1/
With and Without the Project
1972         1973         1974          1975         1976         1977          1978         1979          1980         1981          1982
Cultivated Area (ha)
(a)  With the Project                      5,970       11,470       17,230        20,010       22,630       25,250        27,830       28,390        29,960       30,520        31,090
(b)  Without the Project
- in existing pol2drs                5,970        7,130         8,130        8,300         8,300        8,300        8,300         8,300        8,300         8,300        8,300
- outside polders-                     -           2,820        5,910        7,610         9,310       11,020       12,040        12,420       12,780        13,170        13,410
Incremental Area                                    ,520        3,190        4,100         5,020        5,930        7,490         7,770         8,880        9,050         9,380
Production (tons)
(a)  With the Project
- average paddy yield/ha              0.88          1.01         1.20         1.29          1.41        1.53           1.65         1.77          1.83         1.86          1.86
- total production 3/                5,250       11,580        20,680       25,810       31,910       38,630         44,270       48,480       51,170        53,050       54,110
(b)  Without the Project
(1) in existing polders
- average paddy yield/ha          0.88         0.91          0.93         0.96         0.99         1.01          1.04          1.06         1.09          1.12         1.15
- total production               5,250        6,490         7,560        7,970        8,220       8,380          8,630         8,800        9,050         9.300        9,540
(2) outside polders
- average paddy yield/ha          0.70         0.70          0.70         0.70         0.70        0.70           0.70          0.70         0.70          0.70         0.70
l   - total production                 -          1,970         4,140        5,330        6,520        7,710         8,430         8,690        8,950         9,220        9,390
Tncremental Production                             3,120        8,980       12,510        17,170      22  47,20                   30990         3 3,170      34,530        35,180
Value of Incremental Production
(NE Million)
Incr. Production of White Paddy (ton)    -              1,980         5,390        8,390       12,820       18,400        21,670        28,570       32,670        35,490       37,750
incr. Production of Red Paddy (ton)          -          1,140         3,590        4,120        4,350       4,140          3,540         2,420           500         (960)      (2,570)
Price for White Paddy (MF/kg)                -              35           34            34           33          33             32           31            30           30            30
Price for Red Paddy (MF/kg)                  -              25           24            24           23          23             22           21            20           20            20
Incr. Value of White Paddy Production    -               69.3         183.2        285.3        423.1        607.2          757.4        885.7        980.1       1,064.7      1,132.5
Incr. Value of Red Paddy Production          -           28.5          86.2         98.9        100.0         95.2           77.9         50.8          11.0        (19.2)        (51.4)
Total Incremental Value of Production    -                97.8        269.4        384.2         523.1       702.4          835.3        936.5         990.1      1,045.5       1,081.1
Production Cost (MF Million)
(a)  With the Project
- average production cost/ha (MF)   -              8,400       10,300       11,400        12,200      14,000         15,500       16,800        17,550       17,800        17,800
- total production cost               37.5          96.3        177.5        228.1         287.4       353.5          415.9        459.2         490.7        507.6         517.8
(b)  Without the Project
- in existing polders (MF7,220/ha) 37.5             51.5         58.7          59.9         59.9        59.9           59.9          59.9         59.9         59.9          59.9
- outside polders (14F5,440/ha)         -           15.3         32.2         41.4          50.6        59.9           65.5         67.6          69.5         71.6          73.0
Increnmental Production Cost            -           29.5         81.6         126.8        176.9       233.7          290.5        331.7         361.3        376.1         384.9 -9
Incremental Net Value of Production          -           69.3         182.1        257.4        3/'.2        450.          544,8          04.5        621.F         659.4         696.2            'w
1/  Under "without project" conditions in the existing polders, the same number of iarmers would be involved, growing the same acreage under rice (4 ha) but with
lower yields.  Outside the polders, farmers would continue to grow red paddy on incontrolled flooded areas, on the same acreage as at present (2.6 ha) and without
any yield improvements.
2/  To enable comparison of "with" and "without" project conditions in every single Year, areas outside polders "without the project" are included only to the extent
that they would be esipoldered as a result of the project.
3/  Excluding benefits from 2,000 ha in the Sarantomo-Sine polder, which are included in the project for administrative purposes only.  Thus in this analysis the
cultivated area with the project corresponds to 26,830 ha in 1978;  27,390 ha in 1979;  27,960 ha in 1980;  28,520 ha in 1981;  and 30,090 ha in 1982.



MAL1
MOPTI RICE ROJECT
Cultivated Hectarage, Yields, Production and Value of Production from 1972 to 1982
Increase in Cultivated Area per Polder
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982
SOUTH MOPTI       4,720      4,720     4,720     4,720      4,720     4,720     4,720      4,720     4,720      4,720     4,720
IBETEMI             130       130        130       300        300       300       300        300        300       300       300
KARBAYE              710       710       710        710       710       710        710       710        710       710        710
DIAMBAKOUROU        410        570       570       570        570       570        570       570        570       570        570
SARANTOMO-SINE      -       1,000      2,000     2,000      2,000     2,000     3,000      3,000     4,000      4,000     4,000
DIA                 -         680        860     1,050      1,230     1,420     1,610      1,790     1,980      2,160     2,350
TFKENKOU            -       1,700      2,080     2,460      2,840     3,220     3,610      3,990     4,370      4,750     5,130
SOFARA              -          370       730        730       730       730        730       730        730       730        730
NORTH MOPTI      j  -          -       Ž.,79(J    3,&<B foo80O         .c803     6180(     63800      6,800     6,800      6,800
SOUFOUJRCULAYE              1,590      2,640     3,6-       4 :Q      5,Th78r   5,780      5,780      5,780     5,780      5,780
Jalibivated ha    5,970    11,470    11,230    20,U.    22,630    25,250    U,830    28,390    29,960    30,520    31,090
per year
(D X



ANNEX 15
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Comparison of Mali Rice Prices with Expected World
Market Prices in 1980 (Round Grain, 40% Broken)
--MF per ton--------
A) Paddy prices to producer                             30,000
Milling costs - MF 6.5/kg of paddy                   6,500
Bagging, handling, storage - MF 3.0/kg               3,000
39,500
Converted into rice (66% milling percentage)                           59,800
Transportation costs (Bamako)                                           1,800
61,600
kolesale margin                                                         2,000
Wholesale Price Bamako           63,600
US$               MF
B) Expected FOB Rangoon, per ton                         62.00
Shipping costs, insurance                            17.50
CIF Price Port Dakar             =               79.50
Unloading, port charges, importers margin            12.60
92.10
Converted into Malian Francs                                           51,210
Transportation costs Dakar-Bamako (by railway)                         10,390
61,600
Wholesale Margin                                                        2,000
Wholesale Price Bamako    =      63,600






MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Farm Budgets at Full Development
Cropped     Paddy                  Gross      Production        Net           Home           Cash
A) WITHOUT PROJECT               Area       Yield      Prices     Revenue         Cost        Revenue      Consumption      Income
n                         (ha)       (tons/ha)  (iF7 kg)   --------------------------------M----------------------------
1. In Existing Polders
Rice                    4.0        1.15       30        138,000        28,900       109,100         4,680       104,420
Millet                 1.4         0.90       18         22,65o           725        21,955        21,955           -
5.4                             160,680       29,625        131,055        26,635       104oh20
2. Outside the Polders
Rice                   2.6         0.7        20         36,400       14,140         22,260         4,680        17,50
Millet                 1.4         0.8        18         20,160           725        19,435        19,h35           -
4h0                              56,56o       14,865         41,695        24,115        17,580
B) WITH PROJECT
Rice                   4.0         1.86       30        223,200        85,725       137,475         4,680        132,795
Millet                  1.4        1.0o        18        26,210         2,110        24,100        21,955          2,145
5.4                             2h9,410        87,835       161,575        26,635        134,940
1/  Without the project, paddy yields would go up in existing polders to about 1.15 tons/ha, whereas they would remain un-
changed outside the polders (0.7 tons/ha).  Millet yields would slightlv increase as a result of better equipment u3e
(from 0.9 to 1.04 tons/ha), but incremental millet production would all be for farm consumption.
2/ Details of production costs are presented in Table 2 of this Annex.
3/ 1,200 kg of millet and 200 kg of paddy would be consumed on the farm (230 kg/capita annually).
It.1
HI-M
tD 



MALI                                    ANNEX 16
Table 2
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Analysis of Production Costs for Rice
In Existing                Outside
Polders                  Polders
A) WITHOUT PROJECT                                            (4 ha of Rice)          (2.6t ha of Rice)
Seeds:  95 kg/ha at FF 30/kg + 5 kg/ha at MF 60/kg             12,600
Seeds:  100 kg/ha at MF 20/kg                                                           5,200
Farm Implements:
-Amortization: plow: annunit, at 3%
interest over 10 years                       4,880                   4,880
hand tools: annuity at 3%
interest over 10 years                         320                     320
-Maintenance                                                 1,000                    1,000
Cost of Work Oxen:
-Cattle feed during                                          2,300                      940
-Veterinarian expenses                                       1,000                    1,000
-Annual cattle tax                                              800                     800
0 & K charge: 50 kg paddy/ha at MF 30/kg                        6,000                     -
TOTAL       28,900                  14,140
PER HA       7,220                   5,440
B) WITH PROJECT
The adoption of better farming techniques would have reached the following situation at
full development:
a. 80% of all farmers would use selected seeds and use a harrow in addition to the
plow;
b. 60% of all farmers would seed mechanically (with ox-drawn seeders rented
from ORM) and perform weed control with an interrow cultivator;
c. 40% of all farmers would use fertilizers.
As a result, production costs of farmers in each of these categories could be presented
as follows:
4o% of          20% of          2D% of         20% of
All Farmers       Farmers         Farmers        Farmers
Farm Implements
-Amortization of plow               4,880            4,880          4,880           4,880
harrow              2,800           2,800           2,800
interrow cultivator               2,800           2,800             -
cart             3,560            3,560            -               _
hand-tools                320              320            320             320
-Maintenance                        5,000            5,000          2,000           1,500
Cost of Work.-Oxen
-Cattle feed                        5,900           5,900           2,300          1,440
-Veterinarian expenses              1,000            1,000          1,000           1,000
-Annual cattle tax                    800              800            800             800
TOTAL FOR 4 HA                 27,060          27,060          14,100          9,940
AVERAGE PER HA                  6,765           6,765           3,520          2,480
Seedsl/                               2,520            2,520          3,150           2,000
Fertilizers2/                         7,850              -              _               _
Equipment Rental
-Seeder ,                             900              900            -
-Thresher-'                         7,500            5,700          3,900             -
Farmers' Charees4                     5,400            5,400          5,400           3,600
Per Ha     30,935           21,235         15,970           8,080
On the average project farm with 4 ha of rice, the cost of production would be as follows:
1.6 ha (40%) at MF 30,935/ha - MF 49,496
0.8 ha (20%) at MF 21,235/ha = MF 16,988
0.8 ha (20%) at PF 15,970/ha = HF 12,776
0.8 ha (20%) at MF  8,080/ha = MF  6,664
4.0 ha                            MF 85,724
1/ Farmers sowing in rows: 80 kg/ha.
Farmers broadcasting seeds: 100 kg/ha.
Selected seeds (purchase price): MF 60/kg.
Improved seeds (from the farm): HF 30/kg.
African rice seeds: MF 20/kg.
2/ 100 kg of urea/ha at MF 78.50 per kg (non-subsidized price).
3/ Rental Charge: 10% of harvest (proportionate to yields).
4/ 180 kg of paddy/ha, covering operation and maintenance, plus investment recovery.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Rate of Return
1.        The following assumptions have been made in calculating the economic
rate of return as shown in Table 1 of this Annex:
(a) Investment costs are derived from the cost estimates in
Annex 9, with the following deductions:
(i) MF 114.5 million equal to 50% of the investment
and operating cost over the 6-year period of the
agricultural research station, the benefits of
which would accrue to farmers outside the project
area;
(ii) MF 514 million, corresponding to the estimated
procurement cost of farm machinery, has been excluded,
from capital costs since it is included under the
heading "incremental production costs", either in the
form of amortization or as rental charges (Table 1 of
this Annex);
(iii) MF 342 million, the estimated cost of second-stage
studies;
(iv) MF 560 million representing taxes and import duties
under the project; and
(v) MF 615 million corresponding to price contingencies.
(b) All operational expenditures by the management and extension
service, as well as the seed farm, estimated for the life
of the project, have been included as a cost under column 3,
Table 1 of this Annex; and
(c) Incremental production is based on area and yield projections
with and without the project as given in Annex 12. Incremental
production costs are further analyzed on a per ha basis with
and without the project in Annex 14. The small increase in
subsistence crop production (millet) would result from the
use of better farming techniques (mainly farm-implements) and
is included in project benefits.
2.        Sensitivity tests have been carried out to measure the impact
of changes in the assumptions made. The results are summarized below:



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Change                    Rate of Return
(a) Slower development; development
period extended for an additional
5 years                                         11.2
(b)  15% lower farmgate prices for paddy             10.8
(c)  10% higher investments costs                    13.1
(d)  20% higher operating costs                      13.4
(e) Yields of 2.2 tons/ha instead of
1.86 tons/ha at end of development
period                                          16.7
3.        To determine the impact of the project on Mali's net foreign
exchange position, the following test was applied:
(a) All cost elements were divided into local costs and
foreign exchange costs as specified in the cost estimates.
95% of all benefits were considered as foreign exchange
benefits since incremental rice production would substitute
for future imports (5% was allowed as local benefits from
increased sorghum and millet production for either home
consumption or the domestic market);
(b) net local costs (total local costs minus local benefits)
were discounted over 35 years at 8%, which is a reasonable
discount rate for MIali, and amounts to MF 2,250 million.
Similarly, net foreign exchange benefits (total foreign
exchange benefits minus foreign exchange costs) were dis-
counted over 35 years at 8%; this amounts to US$9.5 million;
and
(c) comparing discounted net local costs to discounted net foreign
exchange benefits, the exchange rate applicable to the project
was found to be 2,250 = MF 237 per US$ or considerably more
9.5
favorable than the current exchange rate of MF 556 per US$.
November 4, 1971



MALI
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
1/              2/ Management                             Gross Value!/  Incremental'/  Net Value
Civil-   Agricultural-   Extension                  3/ Total   Incremental      Production   Incremental   Net Benefit
Years   Works      Research       Services    Contingencies-  Costs    Production          Costs        Production   _ Stream
(1) (2) (3) -T7- (6)  (7) (8) = (6-7)   (9) = (8-5)
---------------------------------------------------MF million----------------------------------------------------
1972    410.8         38.0          208.1           64.5       721.4                                                    -721.4
1973    962.4        16.0           154.7          164.8     1,297.9        97.&            28.5          69.3        -1,228.6
1974    374.4        16.0           167.4           50.7       608.5       269.4            86.6         182.8          -425.7
1975     65.9        15.5           146.1            6.6       234.1       384.2           126.8         257.4            23.3
1976      -          15.5           115.9            -         131.14      523.1           176.9          346.2          214.8
1977      -          15.0            92.2            -         107.2       702.4           233.7         468.7           361.5
1978      -           12.5           87.9            -         100.4       771.3           290.5         480.8           380.4
1979      -           9.0            83.6            -          92.6       936.5           331.7         604.8           512.2
1980      -           6.5            72.2            -           78.7      990.1           361.3         628.8           550.1
1981      -                          65.6            -           72.1    1,045.5           376.1         669.14          597.3
1982      -                          63.2            -          69.7    1,081.1            384.9         696.2           626.5
1983      -                          59.8            -          66.3                                                     629.9
1984      -                          56 5            -          63 0                                                     633.2
2007    -  6.5     1'             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~1 0
2007      _           6. 5           56.5                       63.0    1,081.1            384.9         69S  2          633.2
1/  Including engineering and supervision.
2/ Including cost of seed farm; 50% of combined cost allocated to the project.
3/ Physical contingencies only.
:/ See Annex 16, Table 2, Production costs include farmers' payments for operation and maintenance as well as the cosbtof
seeding and threshing and amortization of equipment bought under the project.
NOTE: All taxes and customs duties have been excluded.
RATE OF RETURN: 14%                                                                                                          (JIP
H  






M~API
500'                                                4°30                                                  4t00      '
-5'500'                  REPUBLIC OF MALI                                                                                                                              o))
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
GENERAL LAYOUT
Exi- ..  *     Eing polders                                                                                        ;7t                     |
.~ EitNew     polders    i Bank prolect for first stage
New polder S
Area to be studied for second stoge
Main roads                                        t                                               AP
Other roads
*Rice       mnill5sC   ?f/ ......  4
403Q      010 °1 5                    1                               2t    5   2    5   5                                                                         I4a3
14 3'  0,   I      1         2,513°
14-00'
\ A ~~~~TiO                                                                                                      MAURITAN;  A  X 
1, MOPTI  NORTH   S, IBcTEMI                             J00  .  4t~~~~~~~~~onneonio/      SENEA'       REFA OF MAl 
2, SOUFOUROULAYE             7. KARBAYE                                   /              ooo/___?                                   /
3, SOFARA           R         , SARANTOMO -SINE                                                  /                                              tGU     7'%!UPPER  VO IA
4, DIA  -TENENKOU            9, DIAMBA- KOUROU                    e/                                                   ,V</9.    
5, 00                 /       X        To Snos,, a 05_0k0 g 3                       XE R | Ar.w    j /  V C R Y  CO A SoT  S
OCTOBER 11Ri                                                                                                                                                     IbRDI-35ETM






eMAP 2
REPUBLIC OF MALI                                                                                                          ge
MOPTI RICE PROJECT
MOPTI NORTH POLDER                                                         UTLET
0                 I                  2
t),M IL E                                                                                                                  .. .........  .   ....
MILKO                                                    :2                                                   2  /    .2
K L.OMETERS
...
{,Nf, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .  <..-. ...... e. ir. -.. X-.. :......  
/; ~~                       ~        ~~~ ~ ~ ~~                             ~ ~~~~~~~~ N, /\ <     i 
StS,''."''.,.C    '.,''',',.'..''.',,'..'''  "'  .....
/Ag v < >' 0 {} i i=: +') )~~~~~ ' * Dykse - Road to Sevcre
SEED   <  R     >   9           .%     ........................................ .......    ....t J X \   )J         Irg td    rc
MUII:'ICAT10N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ; r ~~~~~Elevated  are  (Sorghum,AMiIlet(
.  .         ......   ..0
DCToBE-E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 19;                                                                                           BRD-e0



