CONFORMED COPY
S
CREDIT NUMBER 277 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mopti Rice Project)
BETWEEN
S
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 6, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 277 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Mopti Rice Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 6, 1972


﻿0
Ilevelopment (Errit Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated January 6, 1972, between REPUB-
LIC OF MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to De-
velopment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same fnre md effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion
of Sections 5.01 and 6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering
of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings there-
in set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the following polders: Dia,
Diambakourou, Ibetimi, Karbaye, North Mopti, Sarantomo-
Sine, Sofara, Soufouroulaye, South Mopti and Tenenkou.
(b) "ORM" means Operation Riz Mopti to be estab-
lished in accordance with Section 3.04(a) of this Agree-
ment; and
(c) "SCAER" means the Societe de Oredit Agricole et
d'Equipement Rural established by the Borrower by Execu-
tive Decree of the Borrower dated April 14, 1971.


﻿S
4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Associaton agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred
thousand dollars ($6,900,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expeaditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement;
provided, however, that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other than services of con-
sultants and other personnel) required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August, 1969 as amended in May, 1971 and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 1.978 or
such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.


﻿5
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1982,
and ending December 1, 2021, each installment to and in-
cluding the installment payable on December 1, 1991 to be
one-half of one per cent (    of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (1 %) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Production with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural, engi-
neering, economic and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineer-
ing, management and other appropriate consultants and
experts acceptable to the Association and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable
0


﻿6
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
SECTION 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish, and maintain during not less than 10 years
after the date of this Agreement, in its Ministry of
Production, an organization (ORM) with powers and
authority, including the provision of extension serv-
ices, and with a level of management, satisfactor, to
the Association;
(b) ensure that ORM be managed by a competent and
experienced director satisfactory to the Association;
(c) cause ORM to employ management consultants to
furnish the services of five qualified and experienced
experts, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, namely, a financial officer, a training
officer, a supply officer, a specialist in agricultural
equipment and in the maintenance of polders and a
maintenance shop foreman; and
(d) cause ORM within one year following the appoint-
ment of any non-Malian personnel to the staff of
ORM, to appoint qualified and experienced counter-
part staff to work with such personnel, with a view to
their replacement when such personnel are no longer
required.
SECTION 3.05. Without restriction or limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall (a) open and maintain for at least seven years a spe-
cial account for ORM's personnel expenditures; (b) make
an initial deposit in said account in an amount sufficient to
cover three months' requirement for the payment of the
salaries of the Malian personnel of ORM; and (c) make fui-
ther monthly deposits in such account in such amounts as
shall be required to maintain a balance adequate to cover
such estimated salary requirements for three months.


﻿S
7
SECTION 3.06. The Borrower shall cause effective pay
scales to ORM's staff to be not lower than those effective in
similar organizations maintained by the Borrower.
SECTION 3.07. Without restriction or limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause SCAER to make available to ORM fertilizers
and farm implements, as and when required for the pur-
poses of the Project.
SECTION 3.08. The Borrower shall impose such levies as
shall be necessary to cover the annual operation and mainte-
nance costs, and to recover, over 35 years, all direct invest-
ments, without interest, of the facilities in the Project Area.
SECTIoN 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTION 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construe-
tion and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any
material modfications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof), to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof


﻿8
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained, records, including separate accounts, ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower, including ORM and SCAER,
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause ORM to have its ac-
counts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) cause the Association to be fur-
nished as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of ORM's accounts and financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audits by said
aud"tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) cause the As-
sociation to be furnished such other information concerning
said accounts and financial statements and the audits there-
of as the Association shall from time to time request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause ORM to retain the inde-
pendent auditors referred to in paragraph (b) above within
nine months following the date of this Agreement.


﻿S
9
SECTION 4.02. Before undertaking any development in
the Niger River basin upstream of Mopti, or allowing any
such development to be undertaken, the Borrower shall take
all measures nesessary to ensure that such development will
take into account the water requirements of the Project
Area.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall carry out a study in
the Project Area on the cost of filling in marshy edges
around large ponds and steepening their banks, in order to
reduce snail survival, and shall furnish to the Association
the conclusions of such study.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall fix the purchase price
of paddy in the Project Area with due regard to farmers'
incentives to increase production for the market and utilize
the facilities to be constructed or improved under the
Project.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower shall operate and maintain,
or cause to be operated and maintained, the facilities in-
cluded in the Project in accordance with sound technical and
agricultural standards and practices and shall furnish as
and when needed the funds, facilities and other resources
required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower


﻿10
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part there-
of, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit;
and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Bor-
rower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency
of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly in-
form each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit, the maintenance of the services thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or
laws in effect in its territories.


﻿S
11
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SEcTIoN 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for the
period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuanco thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable im-
mediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service
charges shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing to the contrary in the Development Credit Agree-
ment notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has opened the special account referred
to in Section 3.05(a) of this Agreement and has made the
initial deposit therein;
(b) the engineering consultants referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement have been employed; and


﻿S
12
(c) ORM has been established as provided for in Sec-
tion 3.04(a) and (b) of this Agreement.
SECTION 8.02. The date April 17, 1972 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.08, 4.01(a), 4.02 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall
cease and terminate on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the pur-
poses of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bamako, Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
Minifinances
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
* 1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
S


﻿Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF AIALI
By /s/ SEYDOU TRAORE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿S
14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each category and the percentage
of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Percentage of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
I. Equipment, and vehicles      700,000   100% of foreign ex-
penditures
II. Civil Works                3,100,000   80%0 of total expendi-
tures
IIL Services of Engineering      200,000   100% of total expendi-
Consultants                            tures
IV. Operating expenses of        800,000   45%y of total expendi-
ORM, including salaries                tures
V. Operating expenses of        300,000   95%0 of total expendi-
agricultural research                  tures
station, including salaries
VI. Consultants services for     600,000   95% of total expendi-
Part F of the Project                  tures
VII. Unallocated                 1,200,000
TOTAL                 6,900,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign expenditures and of expenditures for goods pro-
duced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower.
S


﻿13
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agrcement; or
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by any percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such
percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of
the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for
such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and no longer required therefor will be
reallocated by the Association by increasing correspond-
ingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of such
expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such in-
crease, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Association, in respect of any other expendi-
tures; and
(c) If the Association shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Sec-
tion 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
S


﻿S
16
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represens the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under Category II, III, IV, V or VI
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available
for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which forms part of the Borrower's efforts
to improve conditions for rice cultivation, concerns about
31,000 ha and consists in:
Part A: (i) Construction of the North Mopti, Soufourou-
laye and Sofara polders, including land prep-
aration, with a cultivated area of about 13,300
ha;
(ii) Rehabilitation of the Dia, Ibetemi, Karbayc,
South Mopti and Tenenkou polders, including
land preparation, with a rice cultivated area
of about 13,000 ha;
(iii) Land preparation on about 2,000 ha in the
Sarantomo-Sine polder.
Part B:     Construction of office and storage buidings
for ORM and housing for its staff.
Part C:     The allocation of land in the new polders; the
implementation of a program for the produc-
tion and distribution of selected seeds and the
provision of credit and extension services on
all polders under Part A of the Project, the
Diambakourou polder with a cultivated area
of about 700 ha and about 2,000 ha in the
Saratomo-Sine polder, all by ORM.
Part D:     The procurement of farm machinery, vehicles
and equipment for use in the Project Area.
Part E:      The establishment of an agricultural research
station.
Part F:     The carrying out, with the assistance of con-
sultants, of a feasibility study for a second


﻿S
18
agricultural project in the Mopti region, cov-
ering topography, soils, hydrology, and hy-
idraulies; it would also include detailed engi-
neering of an all-weather road between Ke-
Macina and Tenenkou, a health survey of the
project area and an analysis of markets,
prices and economic benefits.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 1978.
S


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, or for the pro-
curement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$10,000 or more:
(a) If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association
in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, to-
gether with a statement of their qualifications and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified and the
Borrower shall make such additions or deletions from the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modi-
fication to -the bidding documents shall require the Asso-
ciation's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to whom
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed re-
port on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the reasons for the intended award. The Asso-
ciation shall, if it determines that the intended award would
0


﻿0
20
be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of any such contract.
2. With respect to any contract valued at an amount below
the respective limit stated in paragraph 1 above for such
contract, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract; provided,
however, that the aggregate value of all contracts for the
procurement of goods submitted to the Association pur-
suant to this paragraph 2 shall not exceed the equivalent of
$200,000. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


