Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22547
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25360; COFN-03090)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 31.1 MILLION
AND
A SWISS CONTRIBUTION
(TF-03090-NI)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SwF 6.75 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY AND LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
November 27, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Cordobas
C$1.00 = US$ 0.80
US$ 1.00 = C$12.68
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATPI             Private Co-financed Agricultural Technology Program
ATP2             Private Voucher-based Agricultural Technology Program
ATPb             Basic Agricultural Technology Programn
ATPm             Massive Agricultural Technology Program
ATLMP            Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project
BANADES          National Development Bank
BICR             Borrower Implementation Completion Report
CONAGRO          National Agricultural Council
COSUDE           Swiss Development Cooperation
CSJ              Public Registry of the Nicaraguan Supreme Court of Justice
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
GON              Government of Nicaragua
GPS              Global Positioning System
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
INETER           Nicaraguan Institute of Territorial Studies
INRA             Nicaraguan Institute of Agrarian Reform (later OTR)
INTA             Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology
IPM              Integrated Pest Management
IRAM             Institute for Research and Application of Development Methods
IRENA            Nicaraguan Institute of Natural Resources and Environment (later MARENA)
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MAGFOR           Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (formerly MAG)
MARENA           Ministry of Environment and National Resources (formerly IRENA)
MIS              Management Information System
MTR              Mid-term Review
NGO              Non-governmental Organization
OTR              Office of Rural Titling
PCU              Project Coordinating Unit
PNCTR            National Program of Cadastre, Titling and Registration
POA              Annual Operating Plan
PSC              Project Steering Committee
PTA              Private Technical Assistance Program
RUTA             Regional Unit for Technical Assistance
SDC              Swiss Development Cooperation
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
TVT              Technology Validation and Transfer
Vice President:      David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:      John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Isabel Lavadenz-Paccieri



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
Agricultural Technology & Land Management Project
(Credit - 2536-NI)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               21
6. Sustainability                                                                   22
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                    23
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  29
9. Partner Comments                                                                 31
10. Additional Infornation                                                          34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                47
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                51
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               53
Annex 8. Borrower Completion Report - Executive Summary                             54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Nicaragua
Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project
(Credit 2536-NI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Technology and Land
Management Project (ATLMP) in Nicaragua. IDA Credit 2536-NI in the amount of SDR 31.1 million
(US$44.0 million equivalent), with a Swiss Development Cooperation contribution (COSUDE) SwF 6.75
million (US$4.5 million equivalent), was approved on July 20, 1993 and became effective on November
24, 1993.
The Task Manager for this ICR was Isabel Lavadenz and the principal author was Anna Roumani
(Consultant). The report was reviewed by Mark Cackler (Sector Manager), Martin Raine (Sector Leader),
Mariangeles Sabella (LEGOP), Michael Fowler (LOAEL), Matthew McMahon (LCSER), Norman
Piccioni (LCSER) and Christopher Trapman (Consultant). Comments were received from COSUDE.
The Borrower provided a Completion Report (see Executive Summary, Annex 8) and comments on IDA's
draft report.
Preparation of the ICR is based on information and insights provided by interviews and fieldwork
during Bank ICR missions in June and September 2000; a Borrower ICR and completion reports by
involved agencies; a series of specialized studies funded by the project and other sources; and material in
the project files.






Project ID: P007780                                       Project Name: Agricultural Technology & Land
Management
Team Leader: Isabel G. Lavadenz Paccieri                  TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: November 2 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Agricultural Technology & Land Management      LIC/TENumber: IDA-25360;
COFN-03090
Country/Department: NICARAGUA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; AR - Research; VM -
Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/22/1992                              Effective:                     11/24/1993
Appraisal:  02/26/1993                                MTR: 08/31/1995            06/01/1996
Approval:  07/20/1993                              Closing:  12/31/1998          06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners:  Livestock and Forestry (MAGFOR, formerly MAG); Nicaraguan Institute of
Agricultural Technology (INTA); Nicaraguan Institute of Natural Resources and
Environment (MARENA, formerly IRENA); Nicaraguan Institute for Agrarian
Reform (INRA, subsequently became Office of Rural Titling (OTR); Nicaraguan
Institute for Territorial Studies (INETER); Public Registry of the Nicaraguan
Supreme Court (CSJ). (Participation of the National Development Bank
(BANADES) was also contemplated at appraisal).
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          Javed Burki
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                        Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:      Mark Cackler                               Michael Baxter (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:   Isabel Lavadenz Paccieri                  Andres Abramovich
ICR Primary Author:   Anna Roumani; in collaboration
with Isabel Lavadenz; Norman
Piccioni; Lisa Taber; Christopher
Trapman; Alfonso Ortega;
Teresa Campos and Enrique
Vanegas.



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overriding objective at appraisal was to contribute to Nicaragua's effort to adopt a market-oriente(i
economy, and to increase and diversify agricultural output and exports, while preserving the country's
nalural resources as the basis for sustainable growth. Extreme poverty would be reduced by reactivating
land markets, encouraging investment, creating employment opportunities and improving agricultural
productivity and the incomes of small and medium farmers through better access to basic agricultural
services. Under the project's two main components (Agricultural Technology and Land Management) the
objectives were to: (a) develop and transfer sustainable, environmentally sound agricultural technology to
increase production of small and medium producers; (b) support the transition from a supply- to a
demand-driven system for public and private research and extension based on cost sharing, participation
an(I market incentives to improve quality and expand coverage; and (c) provide the basis for secure lanced
property rights by integrating project activities within a consolidated set of policies and administrative
procedures, including establishing the basis for a modem, national cadastre, land titling and registration
program. The project also sought to establish appropriate land use and soil conservation practices and to
control pesticide pollution.
The project was intended to directly benefit about 34,500 mostly small and medium-scale farmers under the
research and extension programs, and provide 50,000 landholders with secure title under the land
management component. No economic rate of return was calculated for the project, but economic returns
well above Nicaragua's opportunity cost of capital were foreshadowed in the SAR.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
Rating         Component                             Total Cost (US$mill.)*
* Including physical and price contingencies.
S              Agricultural Technology                      21.8 of which:
S              Tech. Validation and Transfer                 8.2
S              Soil and Water Management                     3.2
S              Integrated Pest Management                     1.3
S              Agricultural Research Grants                   1.3
HS             Academic Studies Program                       1.2
HS             Pesticide Management Program                   2.5
S              Private Technical Assistance                  4.1
S              Land Management                              34.0 of which:
S              National Cadastre                             14.0
S              Land Titling                                  16.2
S              Public Registry                                3.3
HS             Studies                                        0.5
S              Project Coordinating Unit                      2.3
3.4 Revised Components:
Component Added:
S              Rural Financial Services Pilot                2.0*
* A second amendment (11/03/95) to the DCA reallocated US$2.0 million from the Land Management component to a new pilot Rural Financial
Services component, requested by the GON.
There were four amendments to the DCA: (a) IRENA became MARENA, and a threshold was established
for prior review of consultant contracts (July 1994); (ii) a pilot Rural Financial Services component was
added to finance loans to small producers not to exceed US$450 for subprojects, and technical assistance
and training to participating banks and intermediaries; this amendment also permitted the Borrower to
re-lend proceeds of the Credit to financial intermediaries (November 1995); (iii) the Swiss Contribution
was permitted to finance all activities under the Agricultural Technology component (INTA), and increased
procurement thresholds (June 1998); and (iv) an amendment reflected new legal and institutional
arrangements among executing agencies; expenditures and activities related to Hurricane Mitch; and
increased the Special Account allocation for the Swiss Contribution to US$300,000, to accelerate its
disbursement for INTA agricultural technology activities (May 1999).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Appraisal of this project predated the QAG.
It is important to stress that IDA, through support for this project, was retuming as a lender in a
post-conflict situation and after an absence of 20 years from rural development projects in Nicaragua, the
- 3 -



second poorest country in the Americas. A democratic Government elected in 1990 implemented
IMF-sponsored stabilization and structural adjustment programs, as well as reform measures which, along
with an IDB AGSAL establishing an appropriate policy and institutional framework, prompted donor
institutions to resume lending after this long absence. Government's economic development strategy was to
reactivate and develop an economy emerging from a decade of centralized planning. Massive
cornfiscation/nationalization of urban and rural property had destabilized society, confidence in the judicial
system was low and social conditions, especially in rural areas, were miserable. Acknowledging
agriculture's continued prominence in the economy and the severe poverty affecting some 85% of the rural
population, Government's priority investment areas were agricultural technology generation and transf;.r,
and. land management. The project focused on both.
The risk assessment in the SAR was accurate, noting: the breadth of institutional and technological change
proposed, the limited implementation capacity in government, the political sensitivity of land tenure issues
and. the fragility of the economic reform process. Actions taken by Government during preparation to
reduce these risks included launching a decentralization program, organizational and policy changes, and
defining a regulatory framework to improve the political and economic environment for project actions,
especially under the land management component. Institutional collaboration would be secured through.
inter-agency agreements and coordinating committees. The SAR also acknowledged key lessons of
previous Bank lending in Nicaragua: that project size and complexity be determined by the demonstrateid
capacity and commitment of the implementing agencies; that problems of inter-institutional coordination in
cadastral and land titling projects needed careful handling; and that adequate macro-economic manageirLent
was a prerequisite for project success.
Hindsight and current standards suggest that less ambitious objectives and a simpler project design, given
the institutional and legal/regulatory weaknesses, might have been advisable. But, the continuing threat of
violence in the countryside, the sheer scale of the country's need, Government's own expressed and urgent
priorities, and the Bank's attempt to seize the difficult political moment and respond appropriately in the
absence of an established dialogue, drove objectives and design. The two disparate and complex
components were linked conceptually, but not organically (i.e. titling beneficiaries were not transitioned to
agricultural extension services, a level of service integration which would have been complex to achieve at
that time). Certain geographic areas were a priority for land titling, and others for agricultural extension,
which made sense in terms of the individual component, but which eliminated the possibility of
coordination between the components during implementation. Measures were taken to improve the
enabling environment for project execution, but in hindsight, they may well have further complicated a
situation which required a longer-term strategy, including bridging actions to pave the way for critical
initiatives. The diversity and innovative nature of project activities were quite striking: creation of a market
for agricultural services, institutional reforms, sectoral policy initiatives through the introduction, updating
and/or approval of laws in the national assembly,* infrastructure investments, natural resource and
environmental actions, gender and indigenous peoples' aspects, and complex land-related technical
activities. Many aspects of project design were considered best practice in the Bank and worth launching in
Nicaragua, at that time. A pilot component for Rural Financial Services, arguably one of the more
challenging rural development issues, was later added (at the Borrower's request). While the project took
two additional years to implement, it had many, albeit mostly modest, achievements.
* Including: promulgation of a general pesticides law; updating regulations pertaining to MAGFOR, MINSA, MITRAB, MARENA and MITI;
revision of the basic law goveming INRA to establish its new mandate in the non-refommed sector; preparation and/or presentation to the NationaL
Assemnbly of the Law goveming Title Regularization, the draft Indigenous Demarcation Law; draft Cadastral Law; and draft Registry Modemiz :ition
Law.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is rated Satisfactory on balance, with qualifications.
The project reached and in some cases exceeded its physical targets. It achieved substantial institutional
growth in a learning-by-doing context, and although the impact of project actions on beneficiary farmer
property security, productivity, income generation and hence poverty alleviation -- the central project
objective -- were not appropriately measured by the project, the core objectives were either achieved or
significant progress was made towards achieving them, over a seven-year period. Project design, as
detailed in the SAR, called for systematic monitoring and impact evaluation (M&E). The SAR outlined a
simple methodology, including construction of baseline data. The record suggests tentative, initial efforts
were made but no system was ever developed. This was a lost opportunity given the innovative nature of
the Project. However, Annex 3 attempts to derive costs and benefits - and hence indicative measures of
poverty effects - for the agricultural extension component, while analysis of the benefits of land titling and
registration activities under the project show positive outcomes based on work done by the University of
Wisconsin.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.      Agricultural Technology Component*
* INTA provided three classes of service -- with some modifications over time-- whose objectives were quite different, as reflected in the
community/producer selection process, type of technology transferred, and technical assistance method used: ATPm (initially ATPb) for poorest
clients, using mass media and other techniques and free of charge; ATP I was co-financed by farmers (about 1 0%); and ATP2 used private technical
assistance and was co-financed by farmers (up to 65% of costs). The first two were provided by INTA staff, while the third was delivered by private
TA firms.
Technology Validation and Transfer (TVT) Program  (US$8.2 million INTA)
Output is judged satisfactory.
This sub-component was intended to support the demand-driven generation and transfer of technology, and
included (a) rehabilitation of research and extension infrastructure in INTA regional offices; (b) research
validation trials and technology transfer parcels/plots on producer farms; (c) pre-service and in-service
training; and (d) on-farm (artesanal) production of seeds (basic grains). Experimental and validation
parcels were established, with farmer participation. The program was carried out in five regions of the
country by INTA field teams with 123 technicians distributed in 27 local agencies. Technology transfer
occurred on 11,094 parcels vs. the 14,600 contemplated at appraisal, benefiting about 45,000 farmers per
year by Year 6 of the Project. Trials and validation occurred on about 4,750 plots (small, from 1-10 mz)
compared with the planned 4,800. Some 300 technicians were trained in local study centers. On-farm
production of seed was very successful for corn, beans, white sorghum and rice.
ATPm Program
Output is judged satisfactory.
The ATPm or "mass've" extension program (from 1998) evolved out of the ATPb or group method used at
Project start-up. The typical ATPm client was a subsistence producer farming marginal lands located
mostly in high-risk agro-climatic zones, working part or full-time as an agricultural laborer, not
participating in ATP I or ATP2, and judged unable to pay for extension services. The ATPm was intended
to support basic grain production for family consumption -- in the process curbing rural-urban migration --
and to reverse environmental deterioration. These were demanding objectives, given that only 18 front line
INTA staff were to provide services to about 40,000 farmers per year.*
* The goal of the revised program was to attend a total of about 110,000 beneficiaries by end of 2000, working with an initial group of 18
extensionists and gradually expanding that number.
-5 -



Reference farms were established for massive demonstration of new, low-cost, easily applied technologi as for
communities during key periods of the agricultural cycle, using farm days, group leader training sessions,
radio programs and other means. Services were designed around an initial community diagnosis to define a
baseline. Farmer participation depended on his/her involvement in community producer organizations ai,id on
support from the community leadership. The ATPm relied on results achieved on the commercial plots if
better farmers, and on results from experimental stations. The service was less intense, on the pragmatic
assumption that ATPm farmers -- the poorest and smallest in the project area -- did not require the level of
sernices delivered under ATP 1 and ATP2.
The program attended an average of 38,000 small farmers per year in 1998-1999, declining to about 15.000 in
2000. There is no representative information on productivity gains/impact for the whole program. Field visits
by 13ank supervision missions only witnessed improvements on the reference farms. The size of farms attended
varied greatly, e.g., 0.5 to 7 mz in the Pacific and Central zones, and 10-200 mz* in the North and mountain
zones. A broad variety of technologies were transferred covering soil and water conservation, animal
production, improved basic grains, food crops, disease control and post harvest storage. Critical analysiS of
the .ATPm experience during preparation of the follow-on project, caused a strategy shift in early 2000 based
on agro-livestock extension in "favored" and "non-favored" zones, to boost food production and conser've
natural resources; strengthen community organization and participation including of rural schools and local
government; and establish reference farms.
* Mostly in natural foTests and tacotales.
ATPm was intended to improve on ATPb, but both models operated under constraints including the reliance on
a limrited number of field staff achieving adoption of new technology, working -- directly or indirectly-- with as
many as 2,500-3,000 farmers each. The concept of "attended" in the case of ATPm, signifies periodic contact
by various means, between farmners and extension workers, with less opportunity to work directly on fanmers'
fields to introduce new technologies or follow up with a review of results. It is likely that farmers attended,
i.e., actually visited, did not exceed the 250-300 who owned the demonstration farms, and that the uptake of
new technology beyond those reference farmers and certain community leaders, who also had access to tlie
limited inputs distributed under the project, was fairly modest.
While a visit to Israel was funded by the Project to train 12 technician in ATPm techniques, the program
neecled greater institutional back-up, a lesson for follow-on programs. Reliance on mass media, model [airms
and input supply needs the support of regular farmer-extension contact to be fully-effective, which also has
budget implications. INTA's counterpart funding situation reduced its ability to meet the high demand f;r
extension workers/services, or to provide systematic attention to communities; and the availability of futnds did
not always coincide with the timely delivery of services. Credit was unavailable for most ATPm farmers and
there was insufficient equipment for massive dissemination. The project also demonstrated that technology
adoption rates among poor, small farmers are affected by illiteracy and years of schooling. Furthermore,
without specific actions to ensure their inclusion, women are incidental participants in extension programs,
despite their important and under-estimated contribution to agricultural and especially food production in
Nicaragua.
The lessons learned have influenced the design of the new, phased APL credit.* Properly-funded programs of
this lype can improve performance and impact by delivering regular, permanent services which stress
productivity gains of poorer communities; include agricultural education, and training strategies and programs,
with a gender perspective; work through community organizations to expand coverage; develop lower cost,
accessible technologies for marginal areas and promote greater use of reference farms and radial communlities.
These features are included in the design of the new project.
* Nicaragua Agricultural Technology Project (Cr. 3371-NI, US$23.63 million), first phase of an Agricultural Technology and Technical Education
and Training Program APL.
-6 -



A TPI Program
Output is judged satisfactory.
The innovative ATP 1 co-financed program, with services provided by INTA, sought to improve the
effectiveness of public extension by linking extension providers directly with clients, making the former
more accountable for results. Services were provided twice or more monthly, to groups of producers with
similar problems and socio-economic conditions. Producers paid the technician, not INTA, an agreed fee
for an agreed service. Quantitative objectives for crop yields were defined in advance, incorporated in a
group production plan. The program targeted basic grains and other crops, and small livestock production
for producers with a certain minimum productive endowment.
Started as a pilot in 1995, with 289 producers organized into 14 groups, serviced by 17 extension agents,
initial demand was strong and farmer payments reached 80% in 1996. Numbers of farmers and agents
steadily increased to about 15,400 by end-Project. Geographic coverage reached 1,347 communities in five
national zones with a planted area of close to 27,500 mzs. Project supervision missions noted that even
with low fees for service, collection of the farmer's portion was less than expected, suggesting possibly that
tasking service providers with revenue collection was burdensome, that farmers may not have been fully
satisfied with the service/technical messages, and that the fixed price system of charging for ATP 1 services
was unpopular with some farmers. Indeed, faced with declining farmer payments, INTA dropped its
charging model in favor of allowing farmers to negotiate the amount payable with the service provider.
The impact of the first two years was assessed by Dinar and Keynan (1998) who applied a farm level
analysis to estimate the program's gross incremental benefits. They concluded that ATPl was having a
positive impact on producers' incremental income, but noted that more effort was needed to stabilize farmer
groups, improve farmer selection criteria, and reduce transaction costs for forming groups. Despite some
significant issues (credit, marketing and managerial), INTA clients under ATP I had yields exceeding
national averages in corn, beans, sorghum, potatoes and coffee. Revisiting both ATP 1 and ATP2 in 2000,
Dinar and Keynan reiterated their positive assessment of paid extension programs (see following section on
ATP2, paras. 4.3 - 4.4 and Annex 3).
Private TechnicalAssistance (ATP2- US$4.1 million MAG/INTA)
Rated Satisfactory.
Intended to promote the involvement of private extension firms, NGOs, producer associations, former
MAG/INTA technicians through a voucher system, the ATP2 program was both innovative and risky.*
Government's objectives in involving private firms were to use market incentives to improve the quality of
services, reduce bureaucratic expansion, and introduce a cost-sharing scheme to reduce public
expenditures. Firms would be evaluated and accredited to participate. Selected firms would be trained by
INTA to ensure standardization of approach and content. A small unit in INTA handled coordination,
administration and guidance. Contracts would be awarded to groups of at least 10 small-medium
producers, based on criteria judged by a panel consisting of MAG, INTA and the National Development
Bank (BANADES).** The farmer co-pay portion started at 20% and was expected to reach about 80%
over five years.
I A Pilot of two years would be evaluated by an independent consultant after 8 months; and by the Mid-term Review to decide its continuation,
modification or discontinuation.
** Contracts were tripartite, involving INTA, producers and private firms.
- 7 -



ATP2 covered a wide range of farm production and marketing issues, using group and individual methods
-- delivering services to an average of 9,000 producers per year (starting at 5,500 in 1995, rising to so ume
1.4,000 in 1998 and declining to about 5,700 in 2000); and started with five firms (two NGOs and three
p:rivate firms) climbing to 14 by 1999 and declining to eight in 2000.
The reasons for fluctuating participation were quite strongly connected to issues affecting the private lirms,
including: economic difficulties; lower than expected payments by farmers; the tardy contracting of private
firmns due to protracted fee negotiations and administrative delays in the PCU; and the short-term contracts
the firms signed (about six months) which affected the continuity of extensionist/client relations and thie
services provided. At closing, firms averaged eight extension workers (including social workers) senricing
64 producers each, implying increased operating costs for the firms. Reported performance deficienci s of
private firms also stemmed from their relationship to INTA, which was initially reluctant to give them the
same support it provided its own staff, e.g, linkages to research personnel, training from subject matte:r
specialists, and adequate supervision or market information Their ability to deliver optimal services was
also affected by lack of the tools/resources including appropriate technology validation areas assignecl by
INTA, the program for on-farm seed production, and technical guides. Fees paid to private firms covered
only part of their variable costs and some overhead costs related to work in the field, which sapped their
commitment to the complex job of transferring technology to hundreds of clients, some widely dispersed,
with different problems and requirements. An additional issue affecting the firms was that the INTA co-pay
portion was contingent on evidence that the firm had collected payment from the producer. A 1997
evaluation found, and interviews with participating private firms during the ICR mission (2000) confirmed,
that most of the firms depended on INTA contracts, and lacked internal financial sustainability. Finally, the
short-term contracts signed by INTA with private extension firms/individuals prevented clients from
benefiting from longer-term planning.
Average recovery rates from producers fluctuated, ranging from a high of 85% in the first year to 700% by
2(000, with interim variations. Recovery varied significantly once differentiated fees/crop were introd&ced,
and climatic conditions (including Hurricane Mitch in 1998) adversely affected agriculture and livestock
production. INTA data shows fees/service collected from farmers averaging about US$101 in 1995,
dropping steadily back to US$66 in 1998-2000, and recently rising sharply to about US$100. Farmer
participation dipped following INTA's introduction of a complex funding formula for the private firms, and
an increase in the farmner's required share to 65% of the costs of service. As in other countries where
co-financing of extension has been tried, farmers unable to pay were either carried or released. the latler
having no alternative services.
Rural women's access to project-financed extension services needs much greater focus. Of total farmers
attended directly under ATP 1 and ATP2, about 18% were women and services were provided to them
almost by default. (Their participation in ATPm is not known). This does not reflect their actual
participation in a broad range of agricultural activities in rural Nicaragua, including household food
security, post harvest activities, care of minor livestock and cash cropping. Studies show that access
limitations are mainly due to extension services being provided to male family members on the assumpriion
that the message will be passed on. * INTA initiated a pilot project in 1998 designed to generate
methodologies and tools for comparative evaluation of the quality of INTA's services to male and female
clients; and to demonstrate that applying a gender perspective to its services made economic, social and
technological sense in rural areas. There is little information about the outcome of this pilot, but the n-w
Agricultural Technology Project acknowledges women's key role in rural production and their need for
agricultural education, information and training.
* See Women's Land Rights: Lessons Learned from Nicaragua, S. Ceci, December 2000.
- 8 -



While the justification for different extension models in a geographical area may be queried -- given the
extra costs implied by parallel services and other practical issues -- the project served as an important
laboratory for innovative extension methodologies designed to forge a market for agricultural services.
Recent analysis (Dinar and Keynan, 2000, ICR paras. 4.3-4.4 and Annex 3) provides important
preliminary evidence indicating that the ATP I and ATP2 paid extension had significant impact including
improved farmer production and profitability; improved services to farmers compared to traditional,
publicly-provided programs; steadily decreasing costs of service provision (with important implications for
service quality and farmer willingness to pay); and cost recovery rates which, while lower than expected,
were nevertheless similar to other more developed countries. Project reporting also pointed the way to
improved services within a broader, more pluralistic system in which INTA is one of a range of entities
providing services - NGOs, private sector, rural unions and academia.
Broadly speaking, about 15% of farmers in Nicaragua, mostly small and medium producers, currently
receive some kind of extension service. (While seemingly low, this is a higher percentage than most
countries in Nicaragua's income group). The collective lessons of the ATPm and ATP 1 support the
continuation of public extension services in Nicaragua as defined and structured under the new Agricultural
Technology Project, within a broader framework of a "system" where INTA remains a key actor among
many in a more flexible, evolving situation. In this context, publicly-funded service does not necessarily
mean publicly-delivered. Experience under the ATLMP shows, and the new project reflects, that the
emphasis must be on productivity increases and competitiveness for the greatest number of farmers, to
maximize poverty alleviation effects longer-term. What were found to be INTA's high cost, modest
output/coverage, and managerial shortcomings are being addressed through a comprehensive institutional
development program. The lack of a monitoring and evaluation system under ATLMP has been corrected:
the new project finances an agricultural information system, and a monitoring and evaluation system
tracking input and process indicators, managed and coordinated within MAGFOR, which, inter alia, plots
the effectiveness of public technology delivery and adoption. Services provision is more regular and
permanent, and the extensionist/farmer ratio has been reduced to 1:300-500, working through farmer
organizations/conmmunities. Agricultural education and training -- including for rural women -- is an
important strategic element in social/human capital formation under this new project.
Soil and Water Management (US$3.2 million INTA)
Rated Satisfactory.
The sub-component financed: (a) local and overseas training of INTA planning, research and extension
personnel; (b) upgrading of scientific and field equipment; (c) establishing demonstration plots in different
agronomic regions; and (d) soil conservation grant program to support off-farm conservation works and
on-farm investments in pilot micro-catchment development subprojects. The program successfully
contributed to reversing soil and water degradation by using appropriate and accessible technologies which
were a priority for farmers (perhaps a lesson for extension programs seeking to be demand driven).
Validation areas and demonstration plots established, greatly exceeded appraisal targets. In addition, and
not contemplated at appraisal, about 1,000 small/medium farmers had soil and water conservation works,
as well as agro-forestry systems, established on-farm.
Integrated Pest Management - MIP (US$1.3 million INTA)
Rated Satisfactory.
The MIP was to foster environmentally sound pest management practices for cotton, basic grains and
horticultural crops through: (a) trial and demonstration plots; (b) insect resistance studies; (c) improved
buildings and facilities; (d) field and scientific equipment; and (e) training and technical assistance to
-9-



improve INTA's pest and pesticide management strategy. The MIP promoted the safe use of pesticides,
significantly exceeding appraisal targets by training 300 technicians in appropriate scientific methods.
Inf'ormation on the behavior of certain pests in fruit and vegetable crops was generated and MIP
technologies were validated through trial and demonstration plots, as planned. During the later years ol'
project execution, this sub-component and soil/water management were integrated into INTA's technol o.gy
transfer program.
Agricultural Research Grants --FAITAN (US$1.3 million INTA with Advisory Committee)
Rated Satisfactory on balance.
The Fund for Support of Livestock Technology Research (FAITAN), was not effective until early 199g,,
but demonstrated much potential. The first program of its kind in Nicaragua, full evaluation awaits thc
results of the grants funded under the ATLMP and those to be funded under the new Agricultural
Technology Project. FAITAN launched an innovative process fostering public-private partnerships in h:lgh
priority, adaptive agricultural research projects proposed by domestic and foreign research bodies. It is
expected to produce longer-term economic payoffs and for this reason was continued under the new pro Žject,
despite modest performance under ATLMP which saw only five research projects financed, totaling
US$467,000.* Each research contract was delayed by cumbersome procurement and adjudication
procedures, and organization and management factors, including the unclear role of the advisory
committee. Funds used were less than 40% of the original amount allocated (US$ 1.3 million), which w aLS
repeatedly reduced/reallocated. FAITAN has been improved under the new Agricultural Technology
project, including: detailed procedures for program administration and the competitive selection process;
standardized grant and contract documents; and workshops/seminars to familiarize potential clients with its
mandate and train researchers/scientists in preparing proposals.
* Similar programs in other countries - PRONATTA in Colombia (technology for small farmers), PROMSA (Ecuador), PRODETAB (Brazi ,and
PROSAP (Argentina) are having success.
Acaidemic Studies (US$1.2 million INTA)
Rated Highly Satisfactory.
The project successfully financed study programs, scholarships, and advanced degrees for technicians, to
build national scientific capacity. Results included scholarships for 46 INTA personnel (target 45) through
a contract with the Agricultural University of Nicaragua, resulting in 17 graduates and 11 in final stages.
Masters studies were completed by 22 agricultural engineers studying in Mexico, Brazil and Peru.
Pesticide Management--PROMAP (US$2.50 million, originally MA G and IRENA)
Rated Highly Satisfactory.
Intended to strengthen institutional capacity of MAG (currently MAGFOR) and IRENA (currently
MARENA) to train pesticide appliers, monitor the extent/distribution of pesticide residues, and degree o:f
hunman toxification nationwide, PROMAP had many successes, including: (a) integrating Nicaragua into
the Brazil Agreement, and supporting passage of the Law for Management of Pesticides and Toxic
Substances (enacted 1998, and legal statutes approved 1999); (b) training 54,000 applicators and farmers
(target 1,320) in pesticide application practices; (c) carrying out the institution-strengthening plan for
monitoring and control of toxic substances for MARENA, MAGFOR and three other agencies; (d)
conducting a nationwide inventory of toxic waste/agrochemical and eliminating in two operations and with
the support of the Government of Finland, about 50% of all these toxic waste materials held nationally, a
lanclmark program for Central America and one which led to Nicaragua signing the Basel Environmenta
Treaty; (e) evaluating levels of residual pesticide in the domestically-consumed food chain, and studying
- 10-



levels of pesticide contamination in critical areas (some near major reservoirs); (f) training in toxic
materials for 9 professionals at post-graduate level in Uruguay and Mexico; and (g) establishing pesticide
usage demonstration plots in the eastern and western regions. Studies, diagnosis, and research conducted
under this sub-component are currently been used as reference in the design of a National Environmental
Strategy for Nicaragua.
B.     Land Management Component
Rated Satisfactory.
The National Cadaster, Titling and Registration Program (Programa Nacional de Catastro, Titulacion y
Registro - PNCTR), the nuts and bolts of the Land Management component, was intended to establish the
basis for a modem and technically sound system of secure rural land property rights for about 50,000
landholders on 2 million hectares. INRA would manage the component, supported by INETER (cadastre)
and CSJ (registry), under a coordinating committee. While some activities under the PNCTR suffered
multi-year delays, achievements were ultimately substantial in a post-conflict environment where large
tracts of land were confiscated. Important lessons were learned from direct experience, and a series of
excellent studies and impact assessments were financed by the component.
National Cadastre (US$14. 0 million, INETER)
Rated Satisfactory.
The intention was to establish the technical and administrative basis for a multipurpose, uniform cadastre
covering 78% of the national territory (about 103,000 km3). A national geodetic grid and aerial
photography would produce orthophoto maps covering about 23,000 km2, for technically sound and
reliable information to resolve land adjudication issues. Data would be regularly updated and incorporated
in national and departmental cadastre offices through a communications network financed by the project
and linked to the Public Registry. Selected INETER regional offices would be remodeled/constructed.
Discussions between the Borrower, IDA and the United States Defense Mapping Agency in the first year
produced a revision of this sub-component based on new technologies believed better able to achieve
program objectives, with savings in time and resources. Principal achievements were: (a) network of 50
geodetic points (vs. the 200 originally planned) distributed nationwide, based on the GPS system and linked
to the World Geodetic System (WGS-84); (b) National Altimetric Network (not included in the SAR)
related directly to the Geodetic grid and including 385 high precision points; (c) aerial photography
covering 38,500 km2 corresponding to the Macro-central and Pacific regions of the country, to a scale of
1:40,000 (this component achieved about 76% of its target due to meteorological conditions inhibiting
activities); (d) production of orthophoto maps at a scale of 1: 10,000 covering an area of 23,053 km2
(compared to target of 50,455 km2, again because of weather limitations on initial photography) in the
same regions; (e) satellite imagery covering the entire country, permitting preparation of area/space maps
scaled at 1:25,000 in the same regions; (f) a territorial information system in five pilot zones covering
7,000 km2 (see below);* (g) various types of technical and other equipment including cartographic, digital
photogrammetry, computers and transportation items; (h) maintenance and updating of existing national
cadastral information; (i) remodeling and construction of seven cadastral offices;** (j) installation of a
Local Area Network (LAN) and purchase of high frequency radio-communications equipment; and (k)
training for 450 personnel in different technical systems, e.g., GPS, mapsetter, and photogrammetry.
* INETER persuaded the local population to provide documentation of land tenancy, which significantly improved the statistical accuracy concerning
the land tenancy situation, and the success of this activity.
** This activity was affected by the lack of funds to purchase land needed for construction of new buildings. The need to negotiate with mayors for
the donation of needed land delayed construction by several years.
- 11 -



Pilot Territorial Information Project (Proyecto MICADO)
The most successful and valuable aspect of the cadastral sub-component was the pilot Proyecto MiP ADO,
executed by INETER in five socio-economically and technically distinct zones (Chinandega, Masaya,
Rosita, Nueva Guinea and Puerto Cabezas) covering 7,000 km2, under contract between INETER and the
French firm Spot Image. The objective was to prepare a working methodology for updating a cadastre in
the Pacific sector; start creating a cadastre in the Atlantic sector; and transfer technology to INETER}.
Activities consisted of satellite imaging, basic cadastral information-gathering, preparation of scale inaps of
the country (1:10,000 in Pacific zones and 1:25,000 in Atlantic zones) and installation of a Territori l
Information System.
,The pilots demonstrated that updating the cadastre, while essential, is insufficient to resolve land cor:licts
in Nicaragua, or legal, institutional and organizational issues affecting land administration and tenure
security. They also showed that some 30-40% of parcel surveys are outdated, mainly because of
institutional weaknesses and lack of systematic communication between INETER and the Public Re,g istry.
I)epending on the area, an unquantified but likely high percentage of surveyed properties are not reg. stered,
the registration of titles per se by beneficiaries varies greatly, and titles are given for land which has riot
been surveyed. The lack of a cadastre per se in the greater national area, and the absence of an integrated,
mnodem cadastre and legal registry (linking the geographic and legal databases) is the source of numerous
F'roperty rights problems and conflicts. The fundamental issue is that nowhere are the three basic
components of property regularization -- cadastre, title and registration -- systematically updated and
simultaneously known, and this is not entirely an institutional problem. Legal complexities and the
disincentives created over time during and after the war conflict in 1979, had and still have, a powertill
effect. The intensified pilot in the Masaya zone, working with some 271 plots, found serious discrepancies
between the cadastral records (INETER) and those of the Public Registry (CSJ), and between
newly-measured property areas and areas actually registered.
Land Titling (US$16.2 million, INRA4/later OTR)
Rated Satisfactory.
The plan was to deliver land titles to about 34,000 landholders covering 720,000 hectares (1.02 milliion
mzs) mainly in the Central and North Pacific Regions; a second phase (years 4-5) would cover an
additional 1.4 million ha (2.0 million mnzs) and a further 16,000 titles. Land reform beneficiaries in tie
reform sector were the primary focus.* Project-financed technical assistance would improve INRA's
o;rganizational and operational procedures, and strengthen its capacity to do massive titling and other
functions associated with land management. Construction of eight regional offices was also included The
beneficiaries of land titling were targeted to be the very poor, sometimes without farming experience
(including de-mobilized military personnel), mostly located in the Macro-central and Atlantic regions of the
country.
* Titling was not included in the cost of the sub-component since it was originally planned that beneficiaries would pay for the titling process.
However, in 1996 an institutional decision was taken on poverty grounds to cover the costs since it was evident beneficiaries were having sen ris
problems paying.
The Mid-tern Review (MTR- 1996) recommended that titling also be extended to the non-reformed sector,
which was attempted, but not continued. The sub-component also sought to contribute to normalizing and
protecting land tenancy among indigenous communities in the Atlantic region through a study of their
situation and characteristics. MTR analysis revealed that the targeted 50,000 titles (SAR) were individual,
but had not taken into account titling of cooperatives and collectives, which entails a host of specialized
issues, and although the works were done in more than one parcel, it showed as a single title. The target
- 12-



was reduced to about 32,000 titles covering 1.01 million mz. Delays in achieving titling targets are
attributed in large part to continuous and disruptive institutional reforms in the agrarian sector which had
an adverse impact on INRA/OTR's institutional capacity; and to repeated failure of land survey firms to
properly fulfill their contracts. An attempt to shift cadastre works to international bidding had little result,
since foreign firms sub-contracted the same local firms that had performed poorly in the first place (see
Procurement, para 5.5). Another major factor was that the titling process involves some 74 separate steps
(and 15 separate institutions), with initial survey work representing only a small portion of this process,
and the remainder constituting a massive bureaucratic bottleneck. Further, cadastral survey work was never
tackled systematically. Under the proposed new Land Administration Project, the bureaucratic steps for
titiing and conflict resolution will be addressed first, as part of a general overhaul and rationalization of
legal, regulatory and administrative aspects of land administration.
The project delivered about 28,150 titles (56% of the original and 88% of revised target) covering 1,100
finca matrices in an area of 1.18 million mz (about 843,000 ha), benefiting directly about 49,600 persons
and indirectly about 117,800 family members. Titling was slowed by several factors: multiple institutional
and leadership changes during transfer of titling responsibilities from INRA to MAGFOR and then to OTR
(1998); lack of local counterpart funds; disruptions caused by Hurricane Mitch; and weak management
capacity in the new OTR especially in procurement, accounting, and a suitable financial control system.
The additional 16,000 titles to be regularized (SAR)* were not done due to the lack of an appropriate legal
framework and the complexity of existing procedures. Of the families benefiting from the 28,150 titles
delivered, 83% were traditional small-farm families, 14% were de-mobilized military personnel, and 3%
were persons repatriated under democratic rule. Of the total titles delivered, about one-third went to
women including as couples under joint titling regulations. Titling activities in the reform sector attracted
the attention of coffee-growers and a small pilot resulted in the legalization of some 914 titles (target 1,187)
through the issuance of a variety of improved legal documents.
* Titles issued in the 1980s contained certain legal and technical flaws resulting from lack of proper land measurement and legal basis.
Actual demarcation activities were limited. The planned demarcation and legalization of indigenous lands
on the Atlantic Coast had barely begun when it had to stop, there being no proper legal framework for title
conveyance for indigenous lands. A draft Law for Demarcating Indigenous Lands in the Atlantic Coast
and Bosawas is pending before the Nicaraguan Assembly. After an extensive consultation process, also
financed by IDA, the indigenous peoples' representatives presented the Government with a
counter-proposal. (The next land project will support a consensus process for demarcation and titling of
indigenous lands). ATLMP financed an ethnic mapping exercise, and a general diagnosis of land tenancy
in indigenous areas; both documents are now references for the draft Law. In addition, some 604 persons
were trained, a publicity campaign was executed and technical equipment acquired.
The Deininger-Olinto analysis (2000) carried out under the ATLMP showed that titling under the project
was demand-driven -- mainly due to institutional coordination problems between the involved agencies --
rather than the more cost-effective and equitable area-based titling closely linked to the cadaster and
registry activities, contemplated in the SAR. The process lacked proper cost benefit analysis, resulting in a
concentration of titling on public lands along the frontier (tierrasfiscales) as opposed to titling in areas
where impact would be more immediate. Experience in other countries (e.g., Chile) also suggests that the
lack of linkage between the project's two principal components reduced the productive potential of titling
activities complemented by agricultural extension services, although studies financed under the project did
demonstrate important benefits of titling and registration per se (see para. 4.6).
- 13 -



The main conclusion of the project-financed IRAM study (2000) is that judicial and other avenues for land
administrationi must be prioritized over administrative, in conveying land rights. However, the continuing
land insecurity resulting from the increasing issuance of supletorio titles* by judges, combined with the
heavy backlog of land-related complaints, plus indications that regulations for issuance of such titles ar.~
not being followed in regard to protected areas, indigenous peoples, territories and agrarian reform area s,
indicates the need for setting the appropriate legal, policy and institutional framework for a more
coniprehensive land administration system. IRAM also stressed the importance of the cadastre as a means
of rwsolving conflicts, and the concept of a decentralized, participatory mechanism which involves
m1unicipal governments and local organizations in land administration and regularization actions.
A, low. costly nicthod of cottveving title which recognizes land use and possession, but not dcfinitive property ights, thus preventing the acquis tion
ofa arortgage or its LIse as collateral for credit.
Putlic Registry (US$3.3 3million, CSJ)
Rated Satisfactory.
Intended mainly to support the land titling sub-component, and, at the same time, to strengthen and initiate
a prmacess to modernize the Public Property Registry at the central and departmental levels to improve
accuracy, reliability and access, the sub-component financed, among other activities, micro-filming of aL
existing data,* technical assistance for software development, training in information management
techniques, and the drafting of a new Registry Law to permit the full implementation of the "Folio Real'
an(l the modernization of its technological basis and procedures. Activities were re-designed in 1995 after a
diagnosis of technical and functional organization, the profile of registry personnel, physical status of
infDn-nation stored, registration activities, infrastructure and actual technology in use.
* 1) se to Nicaragua's vullnerability to natural disasters.
The Registry sub-component had many achievements, including the following: a nationwide Index of
Property Hlolders; improved techniques for the daily reception and recording of incoming land documen- . (
Lii;ao Diario); improved administrative control over documentation and the security of public records; and
imp) oved processes for the inscription of documents in the registers. A pilot subproject was initiated in
Mas:Lya Department permitting the rapid consultation of registry information and introducing the use of
corn iuterized systems. For this system to be legally enforced and implemented nationwide, a law is needed.
The sub-component also produced a micro-film inventory of 600,000 registry files resulting in better
con I-ol over registration data; built new offices in Chinandega and remodeled the central registry office in
Managua. 1'he original plan to construct 16 offices in departmental capitals was replaced by a program
(financed by the European Union) to build integrated judicial/court complexes incorporating the land
reg:stries in each case. 'The project also financed technical assistance for CSJ personnel and institutional
development, as well as a series of local and intemational workshops and seminars.
CSJ' was unable, however, to officially submit the draft registry Modernization Law to the National
Assemnbly and this impeded the coherent and sustainable upgrading of the Public Registry, which must have
top priority under a proposed new project. Complicating this situation was the simultaneous existence of
another draft law financed by the European Community. CSJ, unable to decide which law to send to the
Assembly, drafted a third version which still needs Supreme Court approval to go to the National
Assembly.
The lack of a modem, integrated registry and cadastre system, linking the geographic and legal databases
for each property, hinders the regularization of property rights by failing to identify a host of discrepanclie s,
and contributing to conflicts. De Janvry (2000), another study prepared under the subcomponent, notes
that the registration of documents frequently lags behind recognized property rights - many old titles have
- 14 -



never been registered and a substantial portion of registered properties never updated, causing problems
and insecurity, if not outright violence. Deininger-Chamorro (2000), financed during preparation of the new
land operation, showed that demand for registration in fact, greatly outstripped demand for title, but that
high implicit costs of registration, complicated prerequisites and procedures, and long distances to registry
offices for families with transportation difficulties, may explain the low levels of registration. Poor
coordination among public agencies (INETER, Public Registry and INRA/OTR) and centralized
procedures, as well as CSJ's lack of commitment and operational capacity, and weak political support at
the local govemment level, are also major contributing factors for the modest (but important) achievements
of the subcomponent.
Studies (UJS$0.50 million INRA with IRENA)
Rated Highly Satisfactory.
The Land Management component financed a series of important, high quality studies including: (a) basis
for the new PROTIERRA-MARENA project; (b) ethnic mapping of 120 indigenous communities on the
Atlantic Coast, which, along with the participatory land tenancy study in the same communities, became a
reference for the draft demarcation law for indigenous communities of the Atlantic Coast and Bosawas, and
it will be used for titling and demarcation of their territories; (c) study of the Atlantic Coast for preparation
of the Forestry Project in MAG-FOR; (d) three studies of land tenancy/land rights as background for the
proposed Land Administration Project, comprising: (i) the legal and institutional framework for property,
insecurity of land tenancy and agrarian conflict;* (ii) the impact of state intervention on rural titling in
terms of increasing legal security of tenure, investment and access to production inputs;** and (iii) lessons
learned on women's land rights in Nicaragua. The results of these research studies and of the Masaya pilots
carried out under Proyecto MICADO, point the way to needed reforms, activities and institutional
arrangements under a new bridge-type operation which resolves these issues in preparation for a
normalized land administration national program.
* See Estudio del Marco Legal e Institucional v la Inseguridad en la Tenencia v Resolucion de Conflictos bajo los Distintos Regimenes de Derechos
sobre la Tierra, IRAM, October 2000; and companion paper which places IRAM's conclusions/recommendations in the context of international
experiences, Property Rights and Land Conflicts in Nicaragua: A Synthesis, de Janvry and Sadoulet, University of Cailfornia at Berkeley, July 2000.
** See Estudio de las Dinamicas de Legalizaci6n de la Propiedad en Nicaragua, University of Wisconsin, Draft, August 2000.
To summarize, under the Land Management component, titling activities were quite successful, and
economically justified, but realizing their potential will depend on better integration with a reformed legal,
institutional and policy environment for a more comprehensive land administration system. Moreover,
titling was stressed while registry and cadastre were seen as complementary, but less important activities,
an inadequate situation under Nicaraguan property conditions. Titling cannot be divorced from secure
physical data and proper rights registration, and instead implemented under duplicative uncoordinated
agencies, outdated and perverse multiple and diverse laws and regulations which obstruct the titling process
itself.
The project demonstrated the importance of the following: collaboration between land administration
agencies - cadastre, titling and registration - and of fostering a broad, participatory land dialogue between
civil society, communities, private sector and services providers; tighter focus on vulnerable groups, i.e.
small farmers, the indigenous and women; and, as with the extension component, monitoring and evaluation
systems, to map the impact of policy, legal and regulatory changes, and land regularization activities, on
beneficiaries and the rural economy. A Bank mission in early 2000 was advised by Government that some
2-3 million mz still lacked clear definition of property rights, and the complexities affecting them called for
an integrated, systematic and area-based approach to survey, regularize, title and register land rights. As a
direct outcome of the ATLMP, and based on the studies mentioned in para. 4.44 above, the proposed new
Land Administration project will design a medium-term strategy and action plan to address, in the first
- 15-



instance, the legal, regulatory and institutional issues/conditions governing land rights in Nicaragua, an 1 a
strategy for promoting political commitment to a modem, rational system of land rights administration
C. Rural Financial Services Pilot (US$2.0 million)
The Pilot Financial Services Component is rated Satisfactory, given the benefits realized and lessons
learned, from an investment of around US$ 1.0 million.
A second amendment to the DCA requested by the GON (December 1995 and effective one year later)
funded an innovative US$2.0 million pilot Rural Financial Services component, to increase the presenc.
and capacity of private banks and non-bank financial intermediaries (NFIs) to profitably provide savin :s
and lending services to small-scale producers and entrepreneurs in rural areas. The pilot originally allo, ated
US$0.8 million to provide capitalization funds for NFIs and subsidies to private banks for opening and
operating 10 new branches in towns of fewer than 20,000 residents. In effect, banks competed for finalcial
support to open and operate rural branches by submitting competitive bids; those that required the leas.
am Dunt of financing (under a predetermined ceiling) were awarded the subsidy. After fifteen/twelve months
of operation (depending on contracts conditions), all expenses associated with maintaining the branches.
were assumed by participating banks. Additional pilot resources were earmarked for technical assistancte to
barks and NFIs, and for pilot administration. Another US$I million was allocated to a credit line for
participating banks to finance sub-loans of US$450 or less. No targets were established.
Aftor the first bids were awarded and banks initiated operations at 10 new rural branches in 1997 and
1998, funds from the line of credit were reallocated in part to finance additional branches. A recent ana I ysis
(Taber, 2000) summarizes why these changes were effected and highlights important lessons from the p,lot
experience. After a few, tentative loan experiments, the General Managers of several participating bank;:
decided that small-scale lending to rural producers and entrepreneurs was not profitable for the high
administrative costs and risks associated with these clients, and expressed their lack of interest in
borrowing funds, at close to market rates of interest, to make loans of $450 or less. At the same time, in
late 1997, the GON had almost completed the process of liquidating the largest State development bank,
BANADES, and was unable to sell 12 of its most remote branches to private banks. The Government
requested that these remaining branches, located in rural communities with no alternative banking facililies,
be incorporated into the pilot. Given this request and the lack of demand for funds to on-lend in small
amounts, the credit line was canceled and its proceeds reprogrammed among other project components ind
to sabsidize the set-up and operation of the additional 12 branches in those towns.
Pilct funds originally assigned to strengthen and capitalize NFIs were also reallocated among other
components, based on the findings of Bank missions and special studies that most NFIs in Nicaragua were
geared more towards the administration of targeted and subsidized funds than financial competitiveness.
For the handful of NGOs which demonstrated an appropriate institutional incentive structure and solid
financial basis upon which to build loan outreach, ample sources of technical assistance and investment
capital were already being made available from bilateral donors and other assistance agencies.
The majority of pilot resources, therefore, or about 68 percent of just under US$1 million, were invested in
the establishment of 22 private bank branches in rural communities where no bank had existed or where
BANADES was to withdraw. Nearly all of the facilities reported fast and steady growth in their deposit
accounts but originated few loans, though the results varied somewhat by bank and location. At end-yea r
1998, pilot branches had captured almost US$8 million in deposits from more than 10,000 new accounis,
witk an average size of US$770. About 1,020 loans were generated, totaling about USS4.3 million and
averaging $4,200 each. More than 80 percent of these loans originated from a single bank, Bancosur,
which targeted established clients who had previously done business in Managua or with BANADES.
- 16 -



The low numbers of loans and their high average size (compared to per capita income, for instance, or
initial Bank estimates) reflected the shared perception among General Managers of three out of four
pilot-participating banks (including Bancosur, Bancentro and Banco de Finanzas) that loans to small-scale
rural borrowers were too costly and risky for profitability. These perceptions had been borne out by the
high transportation and administrative costs of trying to verify the income-generating activities of
geographically dispersed clients, and to secure collateral pledges based on moveable property, as very few
rural entrepreneurs hold regularized land titles. However, despite these experiences and perceptions, Banco
de Finanzas and Bancosur committed resources, late in 1998, to piloting new credit products and loan
evaluation and portfolio monitoring techniques tailored to small-scale borrowers, and a program of
technical assistance (TA) was initiated with pilot support.
Bancafe was unique among participating banks in already having learned to exploit the demand for credit
among small-scale commercial enterprises in town centers through very low cost money-lending windows,
or ventanillas, which charged borrowers upwards of 5 percent interest per month on quickly revolving
credits administered from make-shift facilities nearby, while Bancafe used its branches strictly for
capturing deposits. Because the ventanillas were owned by individual shareholders rather than by the bank,
per se, these loans were not accounted for by the Superintendency, and IDAthus was not required to
appropriately provision its capital according to the risks associated with this portfolio.
The program of TA designed mainly for Banco de Finanzas and Bancosur aimed to integrate low cost
lending techniques and market-tailored products into regular branch operations, including transparent risk
management and reporting procedures, but these activities bore few tangible fruits by the time the pilot
closed at the end-June, 2000. Banco de Finanzas had yet to initiate its pilot lending program and Bancosur,
which acquired three of the unsold BANADES facilities and purchased two pilot branches from a
participating bank that had failed earlier on, was intervened by the Superintendency of Banks in May of
1999. Bancentro absorbed and continued to operate these five pilot branches, but did not report loan or
deposit figures for the period ending June 30, 2000. At that time, excluding these five branches, active loan
accounts at pilot facilities numbered only 436, averaging US$4300 each. These 17 branches were
servicing more than 12,500 savings accounts, however, averaging US$770 each, for a total of more than
US$9.5 million in deposits.
Despite having mobilized large volumes of savings and demonstrated remarkable resiliency during a period
of significant financial market upheaval, including the failure of two participating banks, the unlikely
sustainability of the entire pilot branch network became apparent almost immediately upon project closure.
In August of 2000, Bancafe managers expressed their intentions to close at least three of the branches
formerly owned by BANADES which they had acquired with pilot support, as problems with security and
communications made these remote facilities extremely costly to operate. Bancafe continued to support the
unregulated ventanilla approach to lending operations and, not coincidentally, was intervened by the
Superintendency in November of 2000. The failure of Bancafe, one of Nicaragua's largest private banks,
has far reaching implications for the financial sector as a whole, and upon the ultimate sustainability of
pilot-supported facilities, as the new owner (Banco de Finanzas) has indicated that it intends to close all but
one of the 11 branches Bancafe acquired through the pilot.
Managers of Bancentro and Banco de Finanzas (BDF), however, indicated in exit interviews in August
2000, that they had no intention of closing any of the other 12 pilot branches. BDF also reported that it had
hired a local credit officer and begun to canvass potential borrowers for the new micro-credit program
designed with pilot support. The bank's General Manager confirmed his commitment to the program and
belief in the potential profitability of commercial loans targeted to small-scale entrepreneurs in and around
- 17-



Nicaragua's secondary cities and towns, though no new loans had yet been originated from BDF's rural
branches.
In terms of rural credit outreach and branch sustainability, the pilot's results were affected by several
design and implementation issues. The objectives of the component were diffuse and ambitious from tke
beglinning, in terms of the numbers of loans or savings accounts to be opened or new products tested, the
extent to which bank or NFI efficiency or outreach measures were expected to improve, or even who were
the expected beneficiaries, alternatively described in official correspondence as "small farmers" and "'small
entrepreneurs," though they are distinct target groups. Throughout implementation, even while
adrninistrative and operating costs of branches were very high, monitoring and evaluation functions were
lirnited to keeping track of the branches' loan and deposit account totals. Poor monitoring and evaluation
followed in part from the lack of specific goals or parameters against which to assess pilot performance.
Most important for sustainability, the precise incentives and financial condition of bank and non-bank
financial intenmediaries were difficult to gauge during pilot design (it was, after all, a pilot), so that specific
requirements -- such as the formulation of business plans -- that might have helped in selecting the most
potentially sustainable partners, were not incorporated into the bidding process. Requiring cost-benefit
analyses of branch operations prior to the establishment of remote facilities would have informed bank, and
pilot managers alike about the feasibility of these investments. With the benefit of hindsight, it appears ,hat
support to more potentially sustainable alternatives, such as mobile banking units, for instance, should have
been considered in lieu of establishing regular branches, particularly in the remote towns where BANAI)ES
was to close.
The pilot would also have been improved by providing more intensive technical assistance and
capacity-building for participating banks and for NFIs. TA represented only 6 percent of pilot costs, wi-th
no more than five technical assistance activities carried out during the life of the pilot, and with only
marginal participation on the part of NFIs, although this improved late in pilot implementation.
While pilot results were disappointing in terms of the quantity and impact of TA on credit outreach and the
sustainability of installed banking facilities, it is important to evaluate the intervention in view of the
tunnoil and path-finding which took place in Nicaragua's financial sector as the country progressed from a
State-dominated to a private banking industry. By preserving a banking presence where BANADES vNas to
withdraw, the pilot facilitated the politically sensitive closure of the State's largest and most
fiscally-draining banking institution in the country's history. This can be considered an enormous
achievement, although one that is difficult for project managers to take credit for, because of its political
sensitivity. It was further instrumental in demonstrating to private banks that significant demand for
savings instruments existed in rural areas, and provided an important stimulus, particularly in its early
stages, for nascent and reluctant private banks to extend their networks into rural areas, as competition
between institutions emerged. The presence of these pilot branches and their success in mobilizing deposits,
moreover, is likely to have motivated, in part, the NGO and other non-bank intermediaries who have since
organized and begun to lobby for a regulatory framework that would allow them to provide savings account
services to the public.
In addition to these results, the pilot generated many valuable lessons from experience, in terms of design
and implementation issues, important market insights and directions for future policy reforms and technical
assistance activities aimed at increasing the outreach and sustainability of credit services to small rural
producers and entrepreneurs. The pilot revealed, for instance, the common perception among banks that
small-scale rural borrowers are best served by subsidized programs and nonprofit NGOs, which are
exacerbated by the proliferation offideicomiso programs, wherein donors select the client and interest rate,
- 18-



and banks earn fee income for disbursing and recuperating loan funds while assuming no credit risk. These
programs may have distortionary effects on credit markets by encouraging the culture of non-repayment,
among others. Both Bancentro and Bancafe indicated upon pilot completion that they were managing more
than US$32 million in these types of loan funds. The managers of these banks expressed doubt that
donor-targeted clients, typically subsistence producers, were likely to ever become proper clients of the
banks, except in a few cases where Bancafe clients had been included in donor programs. Government and
Bank efforts to measure the impact of these programs and establish best practice guidelines for their
implementation may be effective in preventing unintended consequences on financial sector interactions,
including the perception that small rural borrowers are not credit worthy.
Insight into banks' reluctance to experiment with products and methods to serve small-scale borrowers was
gained through the pilot experience with Banco de Finanzas, which was admittedly approaching this
segment of the market slowly and cautiously. BDF cited cultural bias and risk aversion in dealing with poor
rural clients -- within the institution and the banking industry in general-- as major obstacles to increasing
loan outreach. Banco de Finanzas' leadership also emphasized the drastic departure from traditional and
accepted bank policies and procedures which was required to viably service micro loans, such as
decentralizing lending decisions and allowing for quick application and approval processes. Also, both
banks expressed the need to reform the Superintendency of Bank prudential norms to allow reliable
regulation and supervision system for micro loans activities.
In terms of the legal and institutional reforms needed to support the prudent expansion of micro lending
services in rural areas, pilot participants repeatedly cited the high cost and uncertainty involved in securing
moveable assets pledges from borrowers as a significant limiting factor to doing business with poorer rural
entrepreneurs. Implementing a more secure and efficient system for moveable collateral registration and
confiscation is among the most critical of financial sector reforms needed to encourage greater lending to
small-scale rural borrowers. Credit scoring and capital provisioning requirements which account properly
for the risks associated with portfolios of small loans, without overly penalizing lenders, is similarly critical
to the safe expansion of these activities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In an effort to reach some preliminary conclusions regarding impact, several recent studies/analyses have
been used as proxies (see below and Annex 3).* They suggest that there were positive socio-economic
benefits for the project's target population from both the Agricultural Technology and the Land
Management components, which will be sustained and improved under new follow-on projects.** Evidence
suggests that production and productivity improvements were achieved as a result of co-financed extension
services delivering new technology. Analyses also indicate that some 28,000 titles financed by the project
increased beneficiaries' sense of land security, prompted increased on-farm investment and improved
access to credit. The institutional improvements from both the agricultural technology and land
management components were substantial (although less than expected) and brought out important lessons
that are reflected in design features of new operations. The pilot Rural Financial Services component
introduced branch-banking infrastructure and services to rural areas, and increased the knowledge base for
future efforts to promote credit services to small-scale clients, although economic and financial impact was
not quantified.
* These studies include: Co-financed Public Extension in Nicaragua, G. Keynan, M. Olin, A. Dinar (undated); The Cost and Performance of Paid
Agricultural Extension Services - The Case of Agricultural Technology Transfer in Nicaragua A. Dinar, G. Keynan, Policy Working Paper 1931,
June 1998 and the ex post examination by a FAO consultant of INTA records on the impact of its technology transfer on better clients; Estudio de las
Dinamicas de la Economia Rural - Impacto de Provectos de Legalizacion de la Propiedad en Nicaragua (draft), University of Wisconsin, August
2000.
** A new Agricultural Technology Project (Cr. 3371-NI, US$23.63 million, now effective), the first phase of an APL Nicaragua Agricultural
Technology and Technical Education Program; and the proposed new Land Administration Project under preparation.
- 19-



Agricultural Technology. During preparation of the ATLMP no economic rate of return calculation vNias
attempted for the component because research and extension benefits are by their nature difficult to
quantify and their rates of return worldwide are widely acknowledged to be high (see AKIS note: Ex ante
Economic Analysis ofAgricultural Research and Extension - Methods and Guidelines for Good Proctice,
1999). By the same token, and because of the insufficiently disaggregated disbursement and production
data, it was not considered appropriate to try to calculate an ex-post ERR specifically for the component.
Also, the ICR team found that while the component allocated considerable resources to institutional
development, quantification of institutional benefits would not appear feasible. In the absence of an EF F
calculation, and following OED recommendations, (Agricultural Extension and Research: Achievem.-nts
and Problems in National Systems -- Purcell and Anderson 1997), the ICR team opted for a more
comprehensive approach by considering: (i) emphasis during implementation on assessing the effectiveness
of'the extension process in meeting the program objectives in the targeted farnning systems-accelerating
the rate of adoption of relevant technology in a cost-effective manner; (ii) the impact with and without the
project on 17 farming models based on INTA's data generated from technical data sheets, (iii) the return on
investment for three major crops, and (iv) an independent analysis of the economic performance of the
ATPI and ATP2 programs (Annex 3). All this work indicates clear positive economic impact while
underscoring the need to establish formal data collection systems and to channel data to evaluation and
decision-making at the technical and managerial levels.
Land Management. To assess the impact of project-financed land titling/registration activities, the
University of Wisconsin, with IDA and GON, did a study (draft, August 2000) which presents econometric
results of a beneficiary survey of 2,475 randomly-selected properties. Findings included a positive
correlation between these activities and on-farm investment, better farmer incomes, and improved land
values. Of the beneficiaries receiving title, some 68% felt their land tenancy was more secure; another 5%
had better access to credit; and 30% stated that having title increased their on-land investment. Based on
the average farm size of INRA/OTR beneficiaries, estimates show that land registration had increasec'
on-farm investment by about US$320 per year/farm from 1990-1999, and increased the retums on
agricultural activities by about 30%. The study also found that the existence of properly registered
properties able to serve as collateral had also increased the supply of credit, mainly from informal sources
such as NGOs. Finally, robust results were obtained showing that the registration of property increased its
value by about 30%. In monetary terms, titling increased land value by US$33/mz and registration a
further US$49/mz, a total of US$82/mz. Applying socio-economic and geographic variables, titling was
shown to have focused on the poorest farmers.*
* See Estudio de las Dinamicas de la Economia Rural: Impacto de Proyectos de Legalizaci6n de la Propiedad en Nicaragua (draft), Univ. Wisccnsin,
August 2000.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
In lieu of a FRR estimation, which would have proven difficult to calculate, the team opted for estimating
on-farm income improvements and their net present value as a proxy for the financial results of the
technology component. In the representative models considered, increases in net farm income as a result of
project-financed agricultural research and extension ranged from about 25% to more than 100%. On
weighted average (relative to each model's representativity), annual net on-farm income grew by 67% in
about 6 years of technical assistance, from about US$1,500 to US$2,500 (Annex 3). It can be conclucdtd
that even farmers living under extreme poverty and mainly subsistence conditions have benefited from
improved food security and on-farm increased incomes as a result of the provision of appropriate technical
support services.
- 20 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project had substantial impact on the institutional capacity of most of the participating agencies and to
a great extent this was the result of "learning by doing", through the implementation of a complex project,
and through the Bank's supervisory oversight of this process, conducted with the participation of
appropriate Bank expertise in supervision missions. The precise extent to which institutions evolved is not
known and was not measured, and it is acknowledged that weaknesses persist. However, significant
growth is evident from the quality of the dialogue concerning new projects of equal sophistication, the
stability of core professional staff in key agencies involved in those projects, and the greater level of
technical expertise (information technology and other systems, superior equipment and well-trained
personnel) now available as a direct result of project support.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
While not entirely clear as a control issue, this ICR believes GON agencies emerging from a decade of
centralized government, macro-economic instability and a post-conflict environment had varying degrees of
difficulty acting/reacting with the technical and administrative agility and skill required by the project. A
critical issue beyond Government's control was the large number of claims for indemnification from U.S.
citizens, for lands lost during the conflict in 1979 and its aftermath, representing a fiscal and political
burden and a huge obstacle for land regularization.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
On the one hand, project outcomes may be considered remarkably good considering Nicaragua's poverty
(second poorest country in the Region), the aftermath of the civil war, and the loss of many talented
technical experts and managers in the post-conflict years, through emigration. On the other hand, higher
levels of Government might have done more to improve institutional collaboration; promote the project and
its objectives to a wider audience; embark on a policy dialogue and institutional reforms to overcome legal
and procedural bottlenecks; and accelerate implementation and disbursement. Elections at end of 1996 and
the subsequent transition delayed project execution as new managers and personnel of the twelve project
institutions studied the project in order to commit to its objectives. INRA (land titling) had three new
Directors in four months, changes in project-related staff (losing the experienced titling coordinator), and
poor levels of execution in 1997. It was subsequently absorbed into MAGFOR and shortly after
transferred to OTR/Intendance of Property, a Division attached to the Ministry of Finance. Effects were
less pronounced in INETER, CSJ and INTA. Institutional dispersion affected the land component: over 15
separate institutions handle, or have authorization over, conflict resolution, titling and registration.
Finally, the Government was not proactive in supporting the intended role of CONAGRO (Comision
Nacional del Agro/National Agricultural Council), as a policy-making and institutional coordination body.
The legal and regulatory context for key project actions was not supportive. Again, as a control issue, this
is not clear-cut, especially given the period and historical context. The sensitivity of land and
property-related issues in Nicaragua, and the complex situation immediately following the return to
democracy suggests that expectations of both the Government and the Bank, were too high. Finally, as the
Project approached its final stage, enactment of Law 290 "Restructuring of the State" (June 1998) caused
numerous additional changes in leadership/authorities, affecting mainly land titling activities and project
institutions.
- 21 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to ilnplementing agency control:
Traditional bureaucratic practices, institutional rivalries, the lingering effects of centralized government
and varying degrees of technical and professional weakness in implementing agencies affected project pace
and quality, but the extent to which the underlying causes were entirely controllable by the agencies
themselves can be debated, and the requirements of and processes involved in, executing the Project, hLad
positive institutional effects/ impact. The relative lack of project monitoring and evaluation can be
attributed to agencies' general unfamiliarity with them and, to some extent, a traditional bias against
data-based evaluation/analysis. However, the Bank shares responsibility for not promoting their use a:-d
following up on what was intended at appraisal, during supervision. Agencies' inconsistent responsiveness
to Bank supervision action plans reflected, in part, the complex content and tight deadlines, but also
resulted from fluctuating commitment to the project over time, within the context of institutional
problems/upheavals. The centralized PCU and its tendency to micro-manage project activities persist,d
throughout project implementation in part as a result of perceived institutional deficiencies.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost at Closing was US$73.57 million compared to the SAR estimate of US$57.81 million.
GON contributed US$25.37 million (compared to the US$8.9 million estimated at appraisal),* IDA
US$43.42 million, COSUDE US$4.11 million and producers US$0.67 million. Disbursements up to the
MTR in June 1996 were only US$11.8 million instead of the approximately US$32.0 million planned but
counterpart funding availability was not the primary cause.** Rather, agencies lacked the capacity to
absorb the funds at the expected pace, which persisted despite inclusion of new categories of expenditares
(recurrent incremental costs; the Rural Financial Services pilot; and reassignment of resources to cate,ories
with greater demand). Cumbersome procurement practices and the devaluation of the local currency
vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar were also factors. The Borrower report also mentions slow reimbursement by ][DA
with delays of up to five months, especially true of IDA management of the Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC/COSUDE) funds. More strategic supervision, which honed in on the delayed land
management component, caused disbursements under that component to accelerate in the final three years.
* The BCR attributes the over-spending to extra costs resulting from extension of the Closing Date by two years.
** The BCR attTibutes low disbursement pior to the MTR to procurement processes and institutional weaknesses.
5. .    Procurement.
The, project procurement plan did not reflect the nature of the project and its multiple activities; attemp':s to
COiTect the situation were incremental and at times too late to have effect. The contemplated use of ICB and
LCB accounted for about one-half of project cost; the remainder was to be handled under simpler
prccedures. Aggregate amounts under ICB and LCB were quite small, but still required time-consuming
preparation of documents, revisions by the PCU and "No Objections" from the Bank, repeatedly delayed
the execution of POAs, especially for the INTA agricultural extension component. Some 1,386 contracts
for services averaging US$33,000 each -- an aggregate of US$45.7 million -- were signed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Given the developmental context and the work remaining to be done, it is unlikely that the services tested
and/or improved under ATLMP, could be self sustaining over the short to medium term, independent (A1
further IDA or alternative financial support to consolidate, learn from experience and incorporate new
features. However, sustainability is rated Likely precisely because of this renewed support, and because
follow up initiatives are building upon ATLMP achievements. Key features of new projects include:
- 22 -



measures to promote institutional growth and maturation; legal and regulatory reforms; superior monitoring
and evaluation, and information management systems; education and training; inclusive, participatory,
market-based strategies and mechanisms; and decentralization of key institutions and services provision.
The Agricultural Technology and Technical Education Program (APL, Cr. 3371-NI, now effective)
emphasizes, on the basis of the ATLMP experience and lessons, the following: production and productivity
growth and competitiveness for the maximum number of poor, small farmers, as the core strategy for rural
poverty alleviation; market-based, participatory approaches to agricultural and technical services
generation and delivery, including a broad range of actors; a long-term strategy permitting rational
evolution and enhancing sustainability. It strengthens the main agro-livestock institutions (INTA,
MAGFOR); supports and improves agricultural extension services, building on and improving the ATP1
and ATP2 co-financed mechanisms involving the private sector; and establishes a competitive fund for
agricultural services (FAT); supports and improves FAITAN grant facilities for innovative, adaptive
research projects; develops agricultural education and training programs, with specific attention to the
inclusion of rural women; and of key importance, establishes national agricultural information, M&E and
management information systems. (PAD, Report No:ZO168-NI).
The proposed Land Administration Project will develop a policy, legal, institutional and technical
framework for the administration of land rights. Legal changes will be effected in gradual, participatory
ways to build support and ownership. Improved institutional capacity, removal of bottlenecks and
maintaining ATLMP-financed investments, are goals. Based on several studies, and ATLMP lessons, an
improved institutional and legal environment is seen as the prerequisite "bridge" between the ATLMP and a
future National Property Regularization Program APL. The bridging credit will: (a) resolve complex
technical, institutional and legal issues; (b) test the land rights regularization process and methodology,
identifying legal and procedural improvements and reforms needed; (c) let the stakeholder consultation
process intemalize and analyze the most sensitive policy, legal and other issues; (d) obtain approval of the
legal changes; and (e) decentralize, build capacity in and foster, collaboration among the main land
administration institutions, and between them and private partners, to prepare them to implement the
improved land rights administration framework. At the same time, the proposed Land Administration
Project will regularize land rights under an improved and integrated methodology.
Finally, the sustainability of the rural financial branch network supported by the pilot Financial Services
component is reasonable for 12 existing branches of Bancentro and BDF ( see section 4.2 C). There are no
immediate plans for a follow-on operation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See paras under 6.1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending performance was Satisfactory, but this requires qualification. Bank performance was good in
working closely with GON on its defined priorities and urgent needs, and to improve the enabling
environment. The SAR describes a series of Bank-prompted legislative, organizational, policy and
regulatory changes; actions to guarantee land property rights and resolve issues/conflicts; definition of
agricultural sector priorities; and linking the project to the sector policy and administrative framework
objectives of the IDB's AGSAL (1992). While these kinds of actions were essential precursors to
- 23 -



successfully re-initiating agricultural lending, some of them, especially in the land sector, are seen as
having created additional complications by being piecemeal and not rational parts of a larger strategy.
F[owever, many aspects of the project were innovative, including the attempt to create a market for
agricultural services.
It is acknowledged that because of the post-conflict situation and institutional weaknesses, project desig,n
was largely Bank-driven, and that Borrower preparedness was not optimal: institutions, policies and
economic reforms were fragile and the SAR mentions this. The multiple activities and institutions
depended heavily on cooperation agreements, statements of commitment and special committees for
collaboration and execution. But, this ICR emphasizes again, the context was unusually difficult, the
project responded to Govemment's stated strategy, and many aspects of project design were considered
best practice in the Bank and worth launching in Nicaragua, at that time.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision performance is rated Satisfactory on balance and clearly more effective in the final  ears,
but some aspects were weak. Frequency was satisfactory (20 missions between February 1994 and June
2000), with an intensive effort (three missions) in the first year to launch the many activities. Consistelnt
efforts were made to field supervision teams with appropriate expertise. There were three Task Managers
in seven years. Driven by the demands and nature of the project, and especially by institutional
shortcomings, missions tended to focus on physical and bureaucratic aspects -- physical targets achieved
under Annual Operating Plans (POA), preparation of Terms of Reference, and a range of procedural aid
institutional matters -- and less on developmental objectives. A recent QAG review (September 2000)
specifically notes this same tendency, even in the final stages of the project. Borrower agencies had some
difficulty handling the many requirements of Bank supervision action plans, and their responsiveness
fluctuated (not helped either, by repeated changes of leadership in MAG/MAGFOR and INRA/OTR,
combined with other institutional changes, including in INTA). On the other hand, agencies came to depend
on the Bank's action plans for a "road map" between missions. Looking at other aspects, supervision
teams should have insisted on the Borrower establishing proper monitoring and evaluation systems/capacity
(while not overlooking the Borrower's own responsibility for taking the initiative in this regard);
reimbursement of disbursement applications could be slow, taking up to five months; Bank approval ol the
third amendment to the DCA, requesting reallocation of resources to INTA activities to speed up
d'isbursement of the Swiss contribution, for which the Borrower expected rapid approval due to pressing
need, instead took twelve months; and, in the case of the Financial Services pilot, IDA and the Borrower
could have paid more attention to outcomes, potential and priorities, even if it was a pilot, to avoid a lack
of TA for capacity building in participating banks, and lower than expected achievements.
Supervision focus shifted in the last 2-3 years from the Agricultural Technology component to the Land
Management component, which had persistently lagged. The strategic focus was also stronger in this latter
period, stressing policy, legal and institutional matters* equally, without omitting the operational and
technical side. The emphasis on strategic recommendations was intended to recuperate time, costs and
re-focus on project objectives, as well as to pave the way for new operations; and the Borrower found
advice provided during this period to be clearer, and action plans more realistic.
* Liw 290, Reorganization of the State, and INRA's absorption by MAGFOR, had multiple effects on the project and its institutions and explalTis
much of the new focus of supervision.
Mid-term Review (MTR). The MTR* was late, its outcome was less than expected and Bank follow-up
was modest, given that disbursements at the time of the MTR were only US$11.8 million compared to the
exlpected US$31.2 million (72% of total), and important activities, particularly under the Land
- 24 -



Management component, were delayed. The MTR report downplayed the lack of impact evaluation, on
grounds that measuring the contribution of the project to agro-livestock development in Nicaragua was not
intended at this time because the project was only at its half-way mark, the methodology (for impact
evaluation) appeared questionable and improvements were needed.** Recommendations were mostly
administrative/managerial, emphasizing the Agricultural Technology component. The report needed better
structure: lessons were presented in unorganized fashion as the outcome of several workshops; and the
confusing presentation reduced the impact of the recommendations. The Bank was not entirely satisfied
with the report and some revisions were made in conjunction with the GON, but the final version did not
vary greatly. Major design changes to the Project were not believed necessary. Under the Land
Management component, titling targets were reduced; and some institutional changes were made at INTA
(more flexible administrative and operational systems with reduced activities based on fewer objectives).
The Borrower Completion Report states that the MTR, while already late, should have waited several more
months to permit dialogue with newly-elected authorities, and build support for the project.
* Evaluaci6n de Medio Termino, J.E. Austin Associates, July 5, 1996.
** Apparently, a baseline survey was done, covering 551 landholders selected from a random sample of 7,747 farm units in a 36,000 Km2 area in 6
Departments. The sample was considered flawed due to its high degree of heterogeneity and showed only minimal impact from agrarian reform,
contradicting available INTA data. The MTR consultants felt that the sample was useful for evaluating the impact of agricultural technology on
producer income, but the resulting report published (Nitlapan, 09/22/96) lacked cost of production data and hence conclusions on impact were not
possible. Such data was belteved to be available at the time, but there was no follow-up, including by the MTR consulting firm or the Bank.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was on balance Satisfactory but mixed. IDA had an ample vision of
Nicaragua's development path and believed the moment was right to pursue it, even while acknowledging
that conditions on the ground were not ideal. Actual and proposed new Bank-supported projects reflect the
lessons learned, including lessons from certain weaknesses in the Bank's own lending and supervisory role
under ATLMP.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated Satisfactory, given the historical context and the
willingness and commitment of Government to resolve critical issues, improve the enabling environment
and respond to Bank requirements. The Borrower probably under-estimated project complexity but lacked
the established dialogue or experience with the IDA, after IDA's prolonged absence, to question the design.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance is rated Satisfactory overall, based on the aggregate implementation performance
of involved public agencies and of the Borrower, MAGFOR. Government's commitment to the project
fluctuated periodically -- including as an understandable consequence of the post-electoral period and
institutional upheavals in 1997 and 1998 -- but insofar as counterpart funding, and thus disbursement
performance, is a key measure of that commitment, performance was satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Project execution revealed the institutional shortcomings acknowledged during preparation. While the
detailed, time-bound action plans of supervision missions were intended to promote progress, performance
and inject discipline into implementation processes, they also convey the impression that IDA's expectations
were too high, and may partly explain agencies' periodic unresponsiveness. MAGFOR, as the main
implementing agency, was charged with project coordination and with transferring most of the credit
proceeds, about 83% of which were earmarked for INTA and INRA. But MAGFOR lacked the leverage to
- 25 -



enforce CONAGRO decisions to shift those resources when such action was appropriate. The CSJ, which
ranks equally with the Executive Branch, was made subservient to INRA/OTR and its commitment to
pro ject execution was not always wholehearted, with tangible effects on the Registry sub-component. T]ae
MTR recommended some institutional improvements, but stopped short of advocating significant change.I
INTA undoubtedly increased its institutional capacity as a result of the project's technical, administrative
and financial demands, and through project-funded training and the scholarship-supported study prograrn.
While it is generally regarded as the best institution of its type in Central America and is especially
well-regarded in agricultural research, the project revealed the need for: (i) standardization/training in
on-farm, participatory, diagnostic techniques to move away from supply-driven technology transfer
practices; and (ii) more subject matter specialists, and more appropriate technology to transfer (which ,or
ATLMP may have reflected inadequate preparation of the original component, including technical
analysis). Under the project, INTA's data collection and analysis skills proved inadequate to support its
planning and decision-making. Important data were collected but not used. Data from the ATP 1 and A.TP2
programs were only partially analyzed with little effort to explain the differences between farmers or
reg: ons, or to determine adoption rates or impact on farmer incomes/well-being. Data collection, monito1 ring
and evaluation and information systems are therefore a top priority of the new APL. The MTR found
INTA's administrative systems adequate to support its field staff but made recommendations for
integrating technology generation and transfer, as well as operational planning and evaluation, with its
buc get formulation and cost control systems, to maximize the allocation and use of resources.
In response to the preparation of the new IDA-supported Agricultural Technology and Technical Educa-ion
Project, institutional development actions were boosted in the final months including: strengthening fanner
organizations and marketing information capacity; more intensive involvement of agricultural researchl rs
in technology transfer; and reorganization of its technology generation system to be more accountable and
manageable, and reduce the administrative burden on technicians, through three well-defined projects.*
Among other effects, the extension technician came to prominence as the front-line of INTA's services, and
the extensionist/client ratio was reduced to 1:300-500 (from 1:2500). The Government, under the new
pro ject, is seeking to re-position INTA through: (i) emphasis on whole farm planning, marketing and faIm
insurance; and (ii) viewing INTA as one player among many in agricultural technology services, although
INTA is likely to remain the key entity in services for the poorest and for GON's priority programs.
* Research and Development Project; Agro-Livestock Extension for Favored Zones; and Agro-Livestock Extension for non-Favored Zones.
INRA/OTR. Multiple institutional and leadership changes and turnover of key institutional staff delayed
project-financed land titling activities, limiting their achievement to about 60% of appraisal estimates for
titling. Rural land titling was transferred in 1998 from TNRA to the Office of Rural Titling (OTR) with in
the Intendance of Property under the Ministry of Finance, and INRA was absorbed by MAGFOR, all uiider
Law 290. OTR lacks sufficient qualified personnel and equipment to carry out its field responsibilities.,
shows deficiencies in administrative and financial controls, and lacks operational, supervision and quali:y
cortrol capacity. The institution has had limited time to develop. OTR's organizational structure and ability
to hiandle land titling operations have improved -- it demonstrated capacity to grant titles in low-conflict
areas -- but to deal with the more numerous, difficult areas, it needs strengthening and reorganization. The
proposed new Land Administration Project would implement an organizational development program for
the Intendance of Property* building capacity in its central and field offices.
* Law 290 in 1996 grouped several land institutions including OTR (formerly INRA), for efficiency/streamlining purposes, within a new Intencl3nce
of Property, under the Ministry of Finance.
INETER is a multipurpose, autonomous institution with diverse responsibilities including meteorologic.al,
geological and seismographic. While it is responsible for the urban and rural physical cadastres, for most
- 26 -



of the project period it had no cadastral department - a Directorate of Cadastre was only created at
project-end within the Law 290 framework (at the initiation of the project INETER was a division of the
Ministry of Public Transportation which appointed the INETER General Director). INE'I'ER benefited
from stable management throughout the project. Its technical personnel are skilled. However, managerial
and administrative shortcomings and over-centralization affect its executive and technical response
capacity. Regional offices collect information and send it to Managua, lacking decision-making authority.
Decision-making shows a strong technical bias. Information management tends to be handled in an
improvised manner. The shortcomings of INETER are replicated in its regional offices. All need
strengthening, more trained personnel (salaries are low, due to generalized fiscal restraint policies) and
greater resources and equipment for field work. INETER's procedures for verifying titles, and other
activities, are costly for the beneficiary and vulnerable to manipulation due to the need for better quality
control and norms for service provision. The 1999 institutional reform which gave INETER technical and
administrative autonomy, at the same time revealed the absence of long-term programs and strategic plans
for the national cadaster, and the need for decentralization, better information management, and internal
integration of its multiple responsibilities.
CSJ tended to act slowly, consonant with its collegial decision-making at senior magistrate levels, which
delayed the execution of action plans agreed with the Bank. Day to day sub-component management
occurred at the administrative level where professional/human and financial resources were inadequate.*
Its coordination with INRA/OTR suffered until the latter stage of the project, in part because of a project
design flaw that downgraded its actual institutional seniority in favor of INRA/OTR, which sapped CSJ's
commitment to the project. As stated earlier, CSJ's inability to send the draft Registry Modernization Law
to the Assembly reduced achievements of the core modernization objectives of the sub-component. Bank
missions in the final stages advised CSJ to put its weight behind this law, as well as creation of the national
Directorate for Public Registry, considered fundamental for nationwide registry modernization and
standardization. These issues will be pursued under the proposed Land Administration Project.
* In the context of automating the Registnes, which remains the subject of pending legislation, the MTR noted that the 16 separate regional registries,
managed by 12 magistrates, lacked even minimal uniformity of standards or procedures and that this situation would make automation verv costly in
terms of hardware/sofltware and maintenance of databases.
MAGFOR. In the final years of the project, MAGFOR (previously MAG) demonstrated leadership,
designing and promoting an agro-livestock and forestry policy which contributed to the new emphasis on
sectoral policy and analysis in the Bank-Borrower dialogue. Its technical staff are knowledgeable and
skilled, and by end-project proved successful in responding to sectoral crises, as demonstrated in their
handling, along with INTA, the PCU and RUTA, actions after Hurricane Mitch in 1998. MAGFOR led
the emergency programs to restore cropping capability and equipment for affected farms and prepared a
field survey evaluating damages in affected zones, which guided reconstruction efforts. Similarly,
MAGFOR, with INETER and MARENA (formerly IRENA), coordinated extensive, project-financed
aerial photography of hurricane-damaged areas.
Nevertheless, MAGFOR could have done more to develop a sub-sectoral policy for agricultural
technology. In the last three years of the project, MAGFOR should have pursued more vigorously and
adequately its responsibilities for land policy formulation as mandated by Law 290. Its personnel tend to be
overly-focused on bureaucratic tasks at the expense of greater field-based supervision/awareness and
support of the extension technicians/technical activities, and insufficiently engaged with their small-farm
clients. The agency's lack of field awareness was ultimately a factor in the design of the new Agricultural
Technology Project, through the limiting of extension coverage under the renewed, improved ATP I
component. MAGFOR communication with INTA was complicated by INTA's institutional autonomy and
independence.
- 27 -



CONAGRO. The National Agricultural Council (CONAGRO)* was established by the GON during
project preparation to provide a coordinating body for sector-wide policy formulation and management.
Neither CONAGRO nor its Steering Committee functioned as the deliberative, decision-making forum
expected in the SAR and its connection to the project is not clear. MAGFOR (as President of CONAGRO)
had limited scope to execute decisions taken in that forum -- which affected the overall coordination of t he
project -- since all agencies represented were of equal rank and independence. Further, some 83% of
project resources were allocated to INTA and INRA, whose control of those funds meant that CONACRO
could not reassign or change priorities. In general, the institutional design of the project did not foster Ilie
inter-agency collaboration envisaged.
* CONAGRO was supported by funds from an IDB Technical Cooperation Project. It was to introduce sector priorities into national economic rolicy
formulation; translate policy decisions into practical action plans including those affecting INTA; and ensure that sector agencies allocated resourzes to
support sector policy priorities.
PCU. The PCU (Project Coordination Unit) had a complex coordinating, administrative and advisory role.
The unit was overly centralized, in part to compensate for the weakness of involved agencies (procurement
and other areas), and concentrated considerable power, especially over administrative and financial
approvals and the distribution of project funds between agencies and activities. It micro-managed its
responsibilities both for accountability purposes and to maintain control of the large, diverse project, wlhich
from its perspective, given Bank rules and performance requirements, seemed logical. Over the life of tfie
project, the PCU had two coordinators, three disbursement specialists and a stable procurement staff. T -le
MTR (1996) recommended expanding the PCU's activities to include training, property demarcation
activities and technical assistance, an error given that incremental personnel and/or a multidisciplinary team
were not contemplated to support these additional responsibilities. In the final project phase, the PCU
frequently provided administrative guidance on Bank procurement, disbursement and financial proceduies
for new personnel in executing agencies after the 1996 elections and passage of Law 290; and directly
managed, from mid 1997, the financial and administrative aspects of the cadastral and registry
sub-components, including clearing all TORs. The PCU shares responsibility for delays in project
execution, lack of supervision on the ground and infrequent visits to other project entities. Bank supervision
should have addressed the shortcomings of the PCU more forcefully and creatively. Its much improved
performance from 1998 reflected the Bank's own, more strategic approach to supervision, especially of
weaker components.
Swiss Government Co-Financing
COSUDE. The quality of technical supervision support by COSUDE was excellent, provided by the same
person throughout, thereby ensuring the institutional memory for donor supervision. Bank supervision
missions always included COSUIDE personnel. IDA managed the Swiss Govemment co-financing of about
US$4.5 million under an administrative agreement and the funds were allocated to certain categories of
expenditures including FAITAN, under the INTA component. By end 1997, with only US$0.6 million
(13.4%) disbursed, the GON requested a third amendment to the DCA permitting the reallocation of Swiss
funds to all INTA-executed activities, a request which took IDA 12 months to approve, in part due to a
hiatus caused by the changeover of Bank project Task Manager. In the interim, INTA activities were
financed by Bank funds not originally programmed for such use since the liquidity in the COSUJDE Sp, zial
Account was limited to US$200,000 -- inadequate to maintain an acceptable level of activity under the
INTA component, and which delayed reimbursement to INTA and increased the frequency of financial
reprogramming.
A fourth amendment to the DCA in May 1999 increased the COSUDE Special Account to US$300,000
(the Borrower had requested and COSUDE had agreed to US$500,000), but by October 1999 with the
- 28 -



approval of the second extension of the Closing Date to end-June 2000, IDA had already commenced
recuperation of the original Special Account, greatly reducing the utility of the increase. From end 1999 to
Closing, reimbursements were not timely enough to maintain the liquidity required to implement INTA's
commitments. Similarly, certain requests for No Objection under the Swiss contribution, sent to IDA in the
project's final stages, were processed with delays. COSUDE did not prepare a Completion Report on its
activities, but did provide comments on the Bank's draft ICR.
7.7 Overall Borrlower performance:
The Borrower's performance overall was Satisfactory. The original project designs required a standard of
institutional performance which the Borrower was unable to fully satisfy - not surprisingly, there were
difficult issues and problems, some shared with the Bank. But these should not detract from the real
successes. Bank requirements, seen by the Borrower as onerous on occasion, nevertheless served an
important function of transferring knowledge/technology to Borrower agencies, concerning the standards,
actions and practices needed to execute complex programs, and its institutional performance, albeit uneven
within and between agencies, improved significantly over time.
8. Lessons Learned
General:
D   M&E: Monitoring and evaluation (and management information) systems should be in place at project
effectiveness or at least arrangements should be made so as to ensure their operational-readiness within
the first six months. Outputs and impact must be measurable/measured, especially important for
innovative project activities and methodologies which offer unique learning opportunities for IDA (as
well as the Bank) and the Borrower.
*   Institutional Collaboration: Implementation and cooperation agreements do not guarantee
collaboration between disparate institutions with varying roles/functions, and degrees of political
influence and capacity. Projects with multiple institutions require a formal understanding of the
incentives/mechanisms for executing the project properly, identifying complementary aspects, and
unifying procedures. IDA should broker commitment to sensitive project activities at the highest levels
of government and with a pluralistic group of actors.
Agricultural Technology
* Strategic Approach: Government's strategy for a sustainable system of agricultural research and
technology transfer in Nicaragua should continue to build on the idea of a technology and services
"market", which includes diverse actors: NGOs, rural unions, private sector bodies, academia and
sectoral agencies, in addition to INTA, which is nevertheless likely to remain the primary provider of
public extension services in Nicaragua.
* Co-financed Extension Services: While the results of the ATLMP do not yet conclusively support
co-financed agricultural extension in Nicaragua, sufficient lessons emerged to greatly improve the
framework and content of upgraded, follow-on mechanisms. Farmer pay/cost recovery programs for
smaller, poorer producers - through INTA or private firms - need caution, including on equity grounds
(but even partial cost-sharing can strengthen small farmers' participation and ownership, in a
supportive environment).* Quality control systems and capacity for publicly-financed and
privately-delivered services, are essential.
* It should be noted that few countrtes with strong, competitive agricultural sectors have imposed direct cost-recovery on farmers.
- 29 -



*   Disaster Response: The experience of Hurricane Mitch demonstrated the importance of extensive
adoption of soil conservation technology and for emergency response teams to assist farmers' iecovery
of normal agricultural activities within hard-hit areas.
Land Management
*   Legal and Regulatory Environmentfor Land Titling: The ATLMP Land Management component
demonstrated the need for a comprehensive, integrated framework which addresses legal, institutional
and policy issues governing land administration in Nicaragua, removing bottlenecks, simplifying3
procedures and above all, generating a clear internal policy vision, prior to embarking on a massive
land titling program. Policies must be consistent and the legal and institutional framework appropriate,
to achieve long-term sustainability and legitimacy.
*   Beyond Land Titling: Land titling under the ATLMP, while successful per se, concentrated on the
award of agrarian reforn titles, with less attention on other critically important actions, such as the
recognition and protection of indigenous land rights, and it was clearly insufficient to resolve land
tenure conflicts and legal/regulatory hazards. Field studies, including those done under the ATI MP,
show that demand for registration in fact greatly outstrips demand for title and that ensuring access to
land title is a necessary but insufficient condition for alleviating poverty. ATLMP studies
demonstrated a modest but positive correlation between land titling combined with proper registration
activities-- more secure tenancy -- and land-related investment, better farmer incomes, improved land
values and increased access to credit.
*   Cost-effective Titling: Individual titling on demand rather than area-based, systematic titling with close
links to cadaster and registry, has a high implicit cost due to the absence of economies of scale for
registration/legal support and plot survey, at the same time raising equity questions, and increasing the
likelihood that the titles delivered continue to be legally flawed.
*   Institutional Decentralization and Integration: The organic and functional connection between
cadastre, titling and registry requires also the decentralization of the relevant land administrationi
agencies to foster a systematic land regularization process at the departmental level, to facilitate the
integration of service access for and delivery to, beneficiaries.
* Gender Issues: While the improved legal framework in Nicaragua has legitimized and increased
women's land tenure security in the reformed sector in Nicaragua, especially with the advent of joint
titling, important gender differences remain to be addressed. Certain title situations result in reduticed
decision-making power over agricultural production, as well as reduced access to land, agricultural
extension services and credit.
Rural Financial Services Pilot:
*   Design Issues: The pilot experience reinforced the need for clear operational objectives and
performance targets, and the importance of an effective monitoring and evaluation system based on
those parameters, particularly in the context of a pilot experiment. Inclusive dialogue about the
activities and strategy for achieving those targets, and a clearer understanding of participating
institutions' financial conditions and incentives, is vital to the design of sustainable interventions in the
financial services industry.
- 30 -



* Critical Gaps in Banks 'Know-How and Culture: Demonstrating profitable micro-lending products
and techniques is key to increasing private banks' loan outreach among those clients who are perceived
as too costly and risky for profitability, and who are considered natural clients of subsidized donor
programs. Focusing efforts on a single successful test case may be the most effective means of
breaking through private banks' orientation towards formal sector clients and bias against poor rural
entrepreneurs.
*   Legal and Regulatory Framework: Developing risk evaluation, provisioning formulae and regulatory
methods tailored to small-loan portfolios is imperative for fostering the prudent expansion of micro
finance services in Nicaragua. Putting reliable registration and confiscation systems in place for
pledging moveable assets as loan collateral is similarly high among priority financial market reforms
likely to significantly facilitate the increased reach of credit services to producers and entrepreneurs in
rural areas.
*   Harmonizing Sector Interventions: Efforts to measure the impact of donor-sponsored programs and
establish best practice guidelines for their implementation may be effective in preventing unintended
consequences on financial sector interactions, including the perception that small rural borrowers are
not credit worthy.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following are the Borrower's (MAGFOR) comments on the Bank's draft ICR:
Sefiora
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Directora
America Central
Banco Mundial
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20493
Estimada Sefiora Directora:
Comentarios: Evaluaci6n del Cierre (ICR) del A TLMP, Credito AIF 2536-NI
Por este medio me refiero a su carta del 13 de junio recien pasado dirigida a mi predecesor, Ing. Jose
Augusto Navarro Flores, donde le remite el informe en referencia para revisi6n por parte del Prestatario,
antes de ser presentado al Directorio del Banco Mundial.
Sobre el particular, hemos revisado el documento encontrando el mismo en linea con la versi6n
preparada por el Prestatario, notando que se le han incorporado algunos elementos que lo han
enriquecido reflejando sustancialmente en forma objetiva los alcances del Proyecto, asi como las
lecciones aprendidas. No obstante lo anterior, nos permitimos sefialar los siguientes comentarios
pertinentes:
*   Componente Programa Piloto de Servicios Financieros Rurales. En este Componente queremos
enfatizar que segun el texto secci6n 4, parrafos 4.47 al 4.62 se explica muy bien su ejecuci6n y
desempefno, sin embargo, hacemos notar que este programa no tuvo en su disenlo metas
- 31 -



cuantificables claras, tal como lo reconoce el anexoldel ICR, (key performance indicators, pag. 40,
donde textualmente dice "No targets established". Proponemos, que sea evaluado "Satisfactoio'"
tomando en cuenta que la inversi6n total del Piloto de cerca del US$1.00 mill6n, es poca comparada
con los mayores beneficios que se estan obteniendo con las 11 sucursales bancarias privadas nizrales
que permanecen, aun hoy dia, operando en sus respectivos municipios.
* El segundo comentario esta relacionado con la evaluaci6n del sub-componente de Registro Publico.
Notamos que el ranking de este sub-componente es "Unsatisfactory". En la secci6n 4, parrafcs
4.40 al 4.43, hay ciertos elementos que queremos aclarar. En el 4.40 se dice que la "misi6n cer.tral"
de este sub-componente era modemizar totalmente los Registros Publicos, y en el 4.42 que IE CSJ f
a116 en someter a la Asamblea Nacional una nueva Ley de Registro y que esto fue obsticulo p ara
cumplir con su "misi6n central". Encontramos que estas afirmaciones son opuestas al parrafo 4.29
que dice que el objetivo principal del sub-componente del Registro fue apoyar junto con el IN ETER
(Catastro) el proceso de titulaci6n del Componente "Land Management", e iniciar en INETEi ! y en
la CSJ sus respectivos procesos de modernizaci6n.
Ademas, en el anexo 1, no aparece como indicador la emisi6n de una Ley de Registro, aunque estai nos
concientes de que es imprescindible para su modemizaci6n.Por otro lado creemos que no se podia
esperar una total modemizaci6n del Registro Publico con los recursos de US$3.3 millones asignados a
este sub-componente, cantidad relativamente mucho menor a los US$16.20 millones asignados al d-
Titulaci6n y a los US$14.00 millones al Catastro. Tomando en cuenta las observaciones anteriores le
solicito revisar el ranking del sub-componente del Registro de "Unsatisfactory" a Satisfactory.
*   En el numeral 7.9 (Overall Borrower Performance), solicitamos eliminar la frase "a rating oJ
Marginally Satisfactory might be more accurate ". En ese sentido hemos hechos algunas
observaciones a ese parrafo tomando en cuenta la idea original del mismo. Con respecto al pArrafo
7.10, agregamos informaci6n sobre algunos aspectos institucionales nuevos que afectaron de aLguna
manera el rol de CONAGRO como principal 6rgano de coordinaci6n del Proyecto. En el parrai-o
7.13, (INRA/OTR) aclaramos el efecto de competencia del INRA-MAGFOR-OTR, como producto
de la Ley 290 (la palabra DINRA es un error en el texto). En el 7.14 (INETER) y 7.15 (CSJ),
sugerimos cambios en su respectiva redacci6n.
*   Con respecto al parrafo 7.17 relacionado con el MAGFOR, nos cabe manifestar que el mismo 11o
refleja el punto de vista del Prestatario por lo cual solicitamos que su redacci6n sea sustancialfaente
mejorada de tal manera que refleje mas objetivamente el comportamiento del MAGFOR,
especialmente lo referente a los aspectos relacionados con la comunicaci6n entre INTA-MAG FOR.
Considerando lo anterior hemos propuesto refrasear el pfrfafo 7.17 de una manera mas neutral y
objetiva. (favor ver nuestra propuesta del parrafo 7.17 refraseado).
*   Con relaci6n al 7.18 relacionado con CONAGRO hemos propuesto refrasear dicho parrafo
agregando informaci6n para equilibrar mas la idea original del texto.
Adjunto encontrara el texto revisado del ICR incluyendo los anteriores comentarios asi como otras,
observaciones para que sean tomadas en cuenta en la versi6n final del documento antes de que este sea
conocido por el Directorio del Banco Mundial. Por separado y por medio electronico le estamos
remitiendo a la Gerente del Proyecto, Dra. Isabel Lavadenz Paccieri, el texto completo con nuestras
observaciones.
Finalmente, en nombre del Prestatario asi como de todas las agencias ejecutorias del ATLMP le
agradecemos su decidida cooperaci6n que tuyimos de parte del Banco Mundial durante la ejecuci6n de
- 32 -



este Proyecto asi como durante el proceso de su evaluacion que culmina con este documento.
Personalmente, aprovecho esta ocasi6n para reiterarle mis mas apreciados saludos.
Genaro A. Mufiiz B.
MINISTRO
(b) Cofinanciers:
The following are COSUDE's comments on the Bank's draft ICR:
The draft ICR provides a wealth of information on the design, implementation, impact and achievements of
the Project and is essentially consistent with the Borrower's ICR, although some statements are of a general
nature and not necessarily supported by empirical data. The main conclusions reached in the draft ICR are
relevant for further work.
The following issues have been identified as critical:
a)    The absence of a monitoring and evaluation system. COSUDE's attempt to create such system
through the organization of a series of workshops in October 1993 failed. Unfortunately, project design
was not based on a logical framework and, consequently, throughout project implementation this issue
impeded a consistent follow-up and monitoring.
b)    The nature of the supervision and Mid-term Review missions. COSUDE recognizes that these
missions were focused on, and contributed to, the resolution of urgent implementation issues, rather than on
more fundamental issues. However, it also stresses that the increased importance of strategic and policy
issues since 1997 was due to the composition of MAGFOR, rather than to stated objectives of World Bank
and COSUDE missions.
c)    Inevitable delays in the implementation. COSUDE stresses that administrative delays were due not
only to the complexity of the proceedings, but also to the lack of clarity regarding the roles of the different
agencies and institutions involved in the project, which led to ambiguities and conflicting application of
technical norms.
d)    The economic analysis and the need to assess the validation of technologies. The existing data in
INTA needed to be evaluated from the technical point of view going beyond the economic rate of return,
given the nature of the project. An ex-post economic analysis only makes sense when baseline data is
available which, in this case, did not exist. Therefore, the affirmation about the low economic rate of return
of the technology component might not be accurate.
COSUDE emphasizes that a joint ICR exercise would have been a better option, and that it should have
been involved in this exercise since the beginning. Comments on the ICR were sent by SDC to IDA in
October 2000.
COSUDE concurs with the ICR's main conclusions and with the fact that the ATLMP was mainly a
learning opportunity in a difficult environment, with some innovative highlights, but still modest impact.
There is no doubt that there are important lessons leaned through the ATLMP that need to be taken into
consideration in follow-up projects such as the one on agricultural technology and technical training.
Ernst Schaltegger
- 33 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not available
10. Additional Information
Lessons from the Borrower Completion Report*
* I he Borrower's Completion Report was prepared by the Head of the Project Coordination Unit (in MAGFOR), with a team of consultants. ]'Lie to
length, only the lessons are included here. The full Executive Summary of the BICR is attached as Annex S.
"Project implementation has provided a wealth of experiences that could benefit future operations and.
therefore, are presented with the purpose of enriching future projects."
*   Project Design. IDA and the Borrower should closely assess and monitor the links between a proposed
operation and the institutional set-up under which project activities will take place. Adding numerous
sub-components and executing agencies does not simplif-y the institutional structure.
*   Evaluation System. Taking into account the original design of the project, it is important that futui e
operations include a simplified evaluation system that clearly defines appropriate indicators, and
specifically defines the methodology to be used for measuring results while taking into account the
difference between impact and performance indicators. It will be beneficial to determine from the
beginning of project preparation, an evaluation system capable of reviewing periodically the relevanLce,
efficacy, and efficiency of project impact (expected and unexpected), in relation to its objectives.
*   The establishment of an evaluation system with clearly-defined measuring instruments and
methodology would allow for an implementation evaluation as well as serve to measure project
progress and impact, so long as both can be evaluated with a simple and applicable methodology. The
current project had a Monitoring and Follow-Up System in which indicators were globally defined. In
addition, the Project did not have a Base Line Study with which its performance/evaluation could have
been compared. These shortcomings have had such an impact that, at the time of project closing, th -re
is a wealth of fragmented information that makes it difficult to perform an in-depth, comparative
analysis of the implementation and its real impact.
*   Coordination and Institutional Strengthening. Given the historical and socio-economic setting duwnng
project conception, and given the number of entities involved in project implementation, it is important
to consider the need to have future operations with a unified working criteria and mechanisms amorLg
institutions that will ensure a close coordination. This will also allow for project objectives to be tne
focus of implementation, rather than the institution's own interests.
*   Another important aspect to consider for future operations is to include a global Plan for Training and
Institutional Strengthening. Such a Plan would address clientele problems, changes in the global
market, and new technological advancements~ all of which are tangible realities through which the real
needs of the institutions involved can be taken into account as well. The inclusion of such a Plan
would also contribute to ensuring the establishment of long-term objectives regarding institutional
personnel policies for the entities involved; which can, in tum, contribute to the stability of capable
personnel for project implementation and institutional sustainability.
* It will be crucial that future operations pay close attention to the implementation capacity of the
executing agencies, vis a vis, project size and complexity.
- 34 -



*   Operational Aspects: Concerning operational areas, project implementation was affected by
institutional changes. Primarily, changes in the direction of internal policies and high personnel
turnover in the entities involved. Policy changes were evidenced by the experience of the current OTR
(formerly, INRA), which suffered a change in its institutional competencies as set forth by Law 290.
Additionally, many changes in personnel policies took place, which resulted in staff changes at key
levels, including upper management and technical staff. These experiences clearly show that future
operations must consider the importance of Project Operation Manuals which allow for an integrated
and complementary administration of all areas involved in project implementation.
*   Procurement and Disbursements: The procurement and disbursement areas of the Project
demonstrated that it was necessary for all participating entities to become familiar with Bank
procedures in order to comply with its requirements. This lack of experience, combined with high
personnel turnover within the agencies involved, caused delays in many activities as well as
contributing to a larger work load for the Project Coordinating Unit: it invested both time and human
resources in the other entities on various procurement procedures, preparing TOR's, and filling out
lengthy contract formats. It will be beneficial to have future operations with simpler procurement
methods as well as to consider selecting and training personnel in each entity capable of carrying out
these activities.
3   Disbursement timeliness varied, ranging from 22 days to 5 months' delays. This situation particularly
affected resource withdrawals from the Swiss contribution. It will be vitally important to have future
projects agree on and maintain a schedule of disbursements in order to establish priorities while
meeting the Borrower's need to successfully carry out project activities, allowing some measure of
flexibility with regard to changes in project activities.
*   Bank and Borrower relationship. Finally, it is strongly recommended that greater and smoother
communication be exercised between Bank staff and the Borrower's executing agencies in aspects
related to, but not restricted to: procedures, criteria, priorities, target modifications, and policy
changes, when these aspects warrant being addressed during the life execution of any project.
- 35 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Expected Output (SAR)                 Indicators (SAR)                       Results (June 30, 2000)
Agricultural Technology Component     Activity/Unit and Goal                 Result / Output
A. Technology and Validation and Transfer  28,000 small farmers assisted by  Some 45,000 small farmers reached ty
(rJT): Test and compare at farm level  research/extension services           agricultural extension services by year 6
altemative production packages targeted to  by end-Project (SAR Year 5)
the small and medium producers.
1,200 validation trials                Ranged from 1,630 in year 1 to 359 in y ear 6.
with interim fluctuations
4,800 transfer plots                  Ranged from 5,600 in year 1 to 1,561 ir: year
6, with interim fluctuations
60% applied research trials on farm   Reached 86% in year 5, dedining thereafter
25% adaptive research on nontraditional  Reached 30% in year 5, declining thereafter
export crops
85 INTA staff trained in short-term courses   1,210 INTA staff received training
B. Massive Extension Program(ATPm):    110,000 small farmers attended, by end 2000 Records show about 114,000 attended (but
initiated in 1998 as an improvement on the                                   actually about 250-300 farmers, i e., those
basic, group method used since project                                       who owned the demonstration farms).
start-up (ATPb). Intended to support basic
grain production for family use, and reverse
environmental deterioration
C. Soil and Water Management Conservation 28% on-farm trial plots            35% plots established in project period
Program Introduce soil and water
conservation as a regular practice to improve 32% on-farm validation plots   983 validation plots established over course
NRM conservaton and develop sustainable              .                       of project
farming systems in Nicaragua                                                 2,447 demonstration plots over course of
600 staff trained                     project
1,330 trained in project perod
D. Integrated Pest Management (IPM):   115 staff trained in IPM planning and  1,333 staff trained
Promote safe, economically viable and  organization
environmentally sound pest management
mete ods
E. Agricultural Research Grant (FAITAN):   Financed 35 grants startng in year 3  5 grant-supported projects financed, starting
Finance high priority applied research
projects using nabonal /intemational
expertise, adapting existing technologies fast
and cost-effectively                   Demand-driven (no targets provided). Pilot   289 farmers in year 1 (1995). Reached 1,347
F. Co-financed Agricultural Extension  program launched in 1995              communities and farmers by end-project.
Services - ATP1: Improve effectiveness of
public extension by linking providers directly
to clients who would co-finance costs
G. Private Technological Assistance (ATP2) 6,500 farmers entered program by end year 5 Program reached average 9,000 farmers per
Program: Support transition from                                             year, starting at 5,500 in 1995, rising to
supply-driven to demand-driven extension                                      14,000 in 1998 and declining to 5,700 in
services using market incentives to enhance  45 extension farmers participating  2,000.
coverage and quality                                                          Reached 14 in 1999 and fell to 8 in 2001)
1,320 applicators and farmers trained
H. Training in Pest Management Practices                                     54,000 farmers and applicators trained in
(PROMAP): Strengthen MAG and IRENA's                                          pesticide application   and management
institutional capacity to train pesticide                                    techniques
application in use and disposal methods.    No targets established
- 36 -



I. Academic Studies: Courses to increase                                       112 professional courses organized
|academic level of selected INTA staff.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Land Management Component
A. Titling: Improve land security and property 1,011,000 manzanas of land titled  1,258,000 mz brought under proper legal title
ownership of small farmers by issuing legally                                  About 28,140 titles were issued, benefiting
registered titles                      34,000 titles to be issued in "reformed  about 50,000 persons directly and another
sector"                                118,000 indirectly. 914 titles also issued to
private coffee growers
Second Phase (Years 4-5) would cover   Phase 2 not done. Overall target for reform
another 16,000 titles,                 sector reduced to 32,000 of which about
28,140 done.
Titles in "private sector" (no target  914 titles issued to private coffee growers.
established)
B. Cadastre: Establish technical and   Increase technical level of INETER's staff.  450 staff trained in GPS, mapsetter, digital
administrative basis for a multipurpose,                                       photogrammetry and telemetry.
standardized cadastre covering 78% of
national territory.                    Construct 15 fully-equipped regional offices. 7 offices constructed due to lack of available
land, and budget constraints.
Aerial photography covering 50,000 km2  38,300 km2 done at 1:40,000 (76% of target
due to weather conditions).
Otho-photomaps at 1:10,000 covering 50,000
km2                                    23,053 km2 done, less than target due to
weather conditions.
Not included in SAR
National Altimetric Network related to 385
Geodetic Grid points.
200 Geodetic points based on GPS
50 points distributed nationwide (target
revised based on new technologies).
Not in SAR
Territorial Information System covering 7,000
km2, in 5 pilot zones (Project MICADO).
Not in SAR                             Satellite imagery of entire country and prep.
of maps.
C. Public Registry: registry data to be  2.0 million images in Year 1.         2.6 million images done by end of Year 3.
available for more efficient public use.  Nationwide Index of Property Owners  Records of 600,000 properties filmed,
amended and re-entered in system.
Training of Registry personnel         245 staff trained.
Rural Financial Services Pilot Component: 24 No targets established            Pilot invested US$ 670,000 to establish 22
month pilot to increase the presence of                                        branch offices, which opened 12,000 savings
private banks in nural areas and demonstrate                                   accounts and 430 active loan accounts (none
that financing credit services to small rural                                  which was in the <US$450 category eligible
entrepreneurs could be profitable.                                            for financing under the Project).
End of project
- 37 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component ( US$ million equivalent)
Project Component        Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
US$ million              US$ million
Agricultural Technology    21.80                  30.03                     138
Land Management          33.60                    35.72                     106
Rural Financial Services  0.00                    0.99                      N/A
Development Pilot
Natural Resources        0.00                     0.55                      N/A
Coordination Unit and    2.41                     6.28                      260
MAGFOR
Total                    57.81                    73.57                     127
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (US$ million equivalent) *
Lxpenditure                  Purchase Method                                  Purchase Method
_Categories              Appraisal Es timates (US$ millio n)_                 Actu I(a) (US$ million)
____ ; : y :01 ICB       NCB      Other   NBF       Total      ICB      NCB       Other    NBF       Total
Goods (1)      4.33     4.60       0.00     0.00     8.93      4.95      4.39     0.61      0.00      9.95
Works (2)      6.05     5.25       0.00     0.00   11.30       6.34      4.26     1.46      0.00    12.06
Services (3)   6.05     6.70       8.86     0.00   21.61       7.98      8.84     7.77      0.00    24.59
PTA (6)         0.00     1.70       0.00    0.00    1.70       0.00       3.56     0.00      0.00     3.56
Research        0.00     0.35      0.00     0.00    0.35       0.00       0.47     0.00      0.00     0.47
Grant(4)                          I                                                        I__
Operating       0.00     0.00      2.22     0.00    2.22       0.00       0.00     2.61      0.00     2.61
Expenses
Sub-loans(8)    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    1.59       0.00       0.00     1.59      0.00     1.59
Unallocated(9)  0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00    0.10       0.00      0.00     0.10      0.00      C.r10
Total           16.43    18.60      11.08    0.00   47.80      19.27     21.52     14.14     0.00    54.93
(a) Procurement activities from Fourth Amendment to April 2000
Project Financing by Sources and Components (US$ million equivalent) - SAR vs. Latest Estimate
CiON.   Prods.    IDA        SWISS                 G %     Prods.  IDA       SWISS      % Appr.
Contribution   Appraisal                        Contribution    Estim.
______                  0                 :S       ;  :::         2;XEstimate  _   _ _  __:__iX_
Agricultural    3.30     0.31     13.70      4.49        37.71     17.90    0.67    7.35     4.11       40.81
Technology                                                                                             _     -
Land            5.69     0.00     27.91      0.00        58.12     7.00    0.00   28.72      0.00       48.55
Management
Rural Financial   0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00    0.00    0.99      0.00        1.35
Services
Development
Pilot                                                               _                                . _      -
Nalural         0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00        0.00      0.00    0.00    0.55      0.00        0.75
Resources                                                                        I                     _      -
Coordination    0.00     0.00     2.41       0.00        4.17      0.47    0.00    5.81      0.00        8.54
Unit and
MAGFOR                                                                                                 _
TOTAL           8.99     0.31     44.02      4.49       100.00    25.37    0.67   43.42      4.11       100.00
* Note: NBF= Not financed by IDA is not applicable to the project. Others, include pnce comparison purchases.
- 38 -



IDA Disbursements - SAR Projections (US$millions)
SAR Projection
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Annual                5.40    13.70  12.40   6.50   4.20    1.82
Cumulative            5.40    19.10  31.50  38.00  42.20  44.02
IDA Disbursements - Latest Estimate (US$millions)
Latest Estimate            1994    1995        1996    1997   1i998    1999    2000
Annual                     3.60    5.00         5.70     9.40    8.80       6.70     4.22
Cumulative                 3.60    8.60        14.30   23.70   32.50   39.20   43.42
SWISS Contribution - Disbursements (US$millions)
Latest          1994  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Estimate                                                         (*)
Annual          0.05   0.11    0.18   0.60    1.20    1.13   0.84
Cumulative    0.05   0.16    0.34   0.94   2.14    3.27   4.11
* Project financing approved at SDR31.10 millions (equivalent to US$44.00 millions) and CHF6.75 millions (equivalent to US$4.50 millions). At
project closing the SDR31.10 million was totally disbursed, averaging US$43.4 millions, short of US$0.60 millions due to foreign exchange
fluctuation between the SDR and the US$.
At project Closing, total resources used from the Swiss Contribution were US$4.11 1(91.33% of the US dollar amount estimated in the SAR).
Project Financing - SAR Projections (US$millions)
Borrower                                      8.99                         n.a.                   8.99
Producers                                     0.31                         n.a.                   0.31
IDA                                            n.a.                       44.02                  44.02
Swiss Contribution                             n.a.                       4.49                    4.49
Total                                         9.30                        48.51                   57.81
Project Financing - SAR Projections (US$millions)               _._._._
vatt staimate                -                -                     ---Local  -Eera:': T4 i
Borrower                                      25.37                        n.a.                  25.37
Producers                                     0.67                         n.a.                   0.67
IDA                               l                                       43.42                 43.42(*)
Swiss Contribution                             n.a.                       4.11                   4.1 1(*)
Total                                         26.04                       47.53                  73.57
* Project financing approved at SDR31.10 millions (equivalent to US$44.00 millions) and CHF6.75 millions (equivalent to US$4.50 millions). At
project closing the SDR31.10 million was totally disbursed, averaging US$43.4 millions, short of US$0.60 millions due to foreign exchange
fluctuation between the SDR and the US$.
- 39 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Costs and Benefits of the Agricultural Technology Component
Agriculture technical assistance has constituted, during the last few years, one of the principal policy
instruments of the GON in support of small and medium scale poor farn households. The ATLMP
provided strong support to research and extension services as an important tool in the post-war
reconstruction effort.
D[uring project preparation no economic rate of return calculation was attempted for the project or the
individual components. Even though the SAR outlined a simple methodology for a systematic monitorimg
and impact evaluation system, including construction of baseline data, no system was ever developed.
Further, during implementation, arrangements for keeping disaggregated disbursement records were not
made, and thus it is difficult to identify costs related to different research and technology transfer activities.
In terms of benefits, it is also difficult to measure externalities and fully capture economic, social and
environmental values like changes in technological capital, the new skills gained by farmers who partic ipate
in adaptive research, gradual improvement in soil fertility or political empowerment of communities. In the
case of the ATLMP, the only source of information is INTA's database of producers (Registro de
Productores) which registered information in 1997, 1998 and 1999 and which provides a limited set of
historical data. Rather than quantifying economic costs and benefits of the project or the component
through a single summary measure, which, given the circumstances, would be meaningless, the ICR team
assessed: (i) emphasis during implementation on the effectiveness of the extension process in meeting the
program objectives in the targeted farming systems-accelerating the rate of adoption of relevant
technology in a cost-effective manner; (ii) the likely financial impact of the project on incomes of
representative small and medium farming systems based on INTA's data generated from technical date
sheets; (iii) the return on investment considering only the three major crops; and (iv) the economic
performance of the ATP 1 and ATP2 programs.
(i) Effectiveness of the extension process
Starting in 1997, the project introduced a management tool at farm level for beneficiaries under the AmP1
andt ATP2 programs (El Manejo Empresarial de Mi Finca). The instrument, a set of simple forms to
register and analyze elementary financial costs and benefits of introduced technologies, served at the sarne
time as a management tool for the farmer and as a data collection instrument for INTA (Registro de
Productores). Producers would periodically log typical farm costs as well as production yields. Resul;
were examined on a regular basis with the extension agent, who would work with the farmer in
differentiating between technical and economic effectiveness. Feed-back from farmers on cost effectiveness
of a tested technology would then be taken into account for the overall extension program. More
importantly, producers would adopt technologies based only on the evidence of an increased net income.
The impact of the project's technical assistance was first analyzed (July, 1997) by the Escuela de Economia
Agricola (ESECA) of the Universidad Aut6noma de Nicaragua, based on a field survey. Several interesting
performance measures were derived that give indications about what the changes introduced by the pro ;ject
meant to the farmers' well being and how they perceived benefits. Without distinction between the different
project extension programs, 94% of the farmers in the sample applied the recommendations provided by the
extensionists. Of those applying the recommendations, 19% reported 100% effectiveness; 61 % reportecL
50% to 75% effectiveness; and 20% reported an average 25% effectiveness. The study took two more
measurements of the value of the extension: the evaluation of INTA's technical assistance (ATPb and
ATP 1) and the reported change in producers' income as a result of the assistance. Of the producers in the
- 40 -



sample, 43% and 50% ranked the service as "very helpful" and "helpful", respectively. In addition, 41%
reported an increase in their income, 47% reported stable income, and only 12% reported an income
decline. These indicators provide a clear positive insight on the impact of the project's technical assistance
and how farmers assessed the outcome.
Dinar, A. and Keynan, G.* analyzed the data available from the project's two types of paid-extension
programs (ATP 1 and ATP2) and its economic performance and provided important ground-breaking
inforrnation which augments the understanding of private extension services promoted by the ATLMP.
Important issues derived from this information included: (i) the clear improvement in services provided to
producers with paid-extension programs compared to the previous traditional public extension service; (ii)
extension provision costs were both lower and decreasing over time, which had a direct bearing on both the
quality of the service provided by the extension agency/company, and the ability and willingness of
producers; and (iii) cost recovery rates in both programs were significant and at similar levels to those in
other more developed countries.** The authors concluded that "it appears that the principle of private
decision-makers equating the value of extension services to the cost of such services works even in a poor
country such as Nicaragua. Once they realize their full potential, producers are prepared to pay for
information and knowledge. Although too early to conclude, it seems that the two paid-extension systems in
Nicaragua achieved the objectives of improving extension services, and of increasing agricultural
production and producer profitability". Additionally, "the relatively high cost recovery rates, accomplished
so far, and the economic performances of the two programs demonstrate that even poor farmers are willing
to pay for a service that contributes to increasing their economic efficiency and enhancing their livelihood."
* Measuring the Cost and some Performance Indicators of Paid Extension. The Case of Agicultural Technology Transfer in Nicaragua. August 17,
2000.
** Tacken (1997) figures for the private extension service in the Netherlands indicate that proceeds from producers range from 26% to 63% of the
operating cost of the service. In Nicaragua, first-year participating producers paid 20% of the extension costs; second-year participating producers paid
30% of the cost; and third-year participating producers paid 50% of costs.
(ii) Analysis of representative farming systems
One of the main project objectives was to reduce extreme poverty by - among other means - improving
agriculture productivity and the incomes of small and medium farmers through better access to basic
agricultural services. In order to estimate results in terms of farmers' income level, FARMOD software
was used to establish representative, mixed farming models for five different regions, based on INTA's data
generated from the above-mentioned technical data sheets and farm data samples. Because of the lack of
disaggregated information on the research and extension activities financed, calculations were carried out
on a selection of activities and farm budgets typical of farming situations in the various regions and
agro-ecological zones. Twenty-five crop and activity models and seventeen farm models were prepared
jointly with INTA and MAG-FOR experts, comparing with and without project situations. The resulting
budgets took into account minor on-farm investments, production parameters, recurrent costs, family labor
availability and farm requirements. Because in most cases negative figures in the annual cash flows were
lacking - since most of the induced technology changes did not imply purchased inputs or significant
investments in cash - it was not possible to calculate financial rates of return. Estimated annual on-farm
income improvements (before family labor costs) and their NPVs were preferred instead, as appropriate
financial indicators (Table 1).*
* The main assumptions for the financial analysis were: (i) real discount rate: 12%; (ii) time horizon: 20 years; (iii) constant August 1999 labor, input
and output prices; (iv) real exchange rate constant: Cr$12 per US dollar; (v) In models where investments were involved, 80% of investment costs
(excluding labor) included in farm models, financed and repaid to existing revolving funds. For the purpose of the financial analysis and its effect on
the cash flow, three constant payments including a 5% real annual interest rate were considered, beginning in the year following the investment
period.
- 41 -



Table 1: Representative Farming Models
On-Farm Income ** Switching Values
Farm   Investment    w/o     with    Farm    Farm      NPV
Type of Model      Size (Mz    (US$)    project  project  Incomes   Costs    (US$)
(US$)   (USS)    (%)      (%)      _    -
Al.: Le6n-Chinandega
1. Minifundio (maize-beans-patio)  2           0     239      378      -70     231        739
2. Somotillo                       12       464    2053    2857         -60     151      3275
(platano-chiltoma-cattle)
3. Le6n (maize-sorg-chilt-cattle)  15      1005      1794   2242        -19      23      1740
A2. Masatepe
1. Minifundio (maize-beans-patio)  2           0      239     378      -70     231       7B9
2. Ticuantepe                       4      1064    2818    3834         -53     115      5066
(maize-beans-veget-cattle)
3. Carazo                          10      1105      1978    3078       -47      87      4668
(maize-beans-coffee-veget)
4. Rivas                           18        650    4624    7222        -68     212    12593
(maize-beans-fruits-cattle)
B3. Esteli
1. Minifundio (maize-beans-patio)  2          0      239      378       -70    231        789
2. Jalapa                          10       794      2006    2954       -41      71      4195
(maize-beans-rice-coffe-cattle)
3. Esteli                           8       558      1422    2365       -60     150      5260
(maize-beans-veget-cattle)
B5. Matagalpa-Jinotega
1. Minifundio (maize-beans-patio)  2           0      239     378       -70     231       789
2. Pantasma                        15      1114    2726    4439         -55     123      7765
(maize-beans-veg-coffee-cattle)
3. Sebaco                           6       462      3873    5912       -78     355    116 689
(maize-beans-veget-cattle)
4. Matiguas                       30       3566      3100   4660        -24      31      4342
(maize-beans-sorg-cattle)
C6. Jigalpa
1. Camoapa (maize-cattle-patio)   42       3164     3265    4368        -28      39      3703
2. San Carlos                     20        846    2464    3400         -42      73      4663
(maize-beans-rice-cattle)
3. Waspan                           8       546      1067    2416       -60     152      6556
_maize-beans-plantain-patio)._                                                           __
** Before labor costs. These were not considered because of the low opportunity cost of labor.
The analysis demonstrated highly significant income increases (financial returns) for most representative
production systems. Increases in net farm income, supported by and based on seasonal reports produced in
1997-99 by each extension agent in the service area of each INTA extension agency ranged from about 25% to
more than 100% at full development. On weighted average, relative to each model's representativeness, annual
net on-farm income grew by 67% in about 4 to 6 years of technical assistance, from about US$1,500 tc.
US$2,500. It can be concluded that even farmers living under extreme poverty and mainly subsistence
conditions have benefitted from improved food security and on-farm increased incomes following the prcvision
of technical support and advisory services provided by the agricultural component of the ATLMP.
- 42 -



(iii) Analysis considering benefits on three single crops
A regression analysis was undertaken based on 1999 information and for three of the most frequently
registered crops only: com, beans and rice. The analysis confirmed the conclusions of the analysis made by
Dinar & Keynan and those based on representative farming systems; and shows significant differences in
yields and income in favor of producers who adopted INTA promoted technologies. Incremental net income
estimations, considering family labor costs, are shown in Table 2. Aggregate incremental net benefits as a
result of technology adoption of around 58% of INTA assisted producers -weighted adoption average - for
the three crops considered, as likely to be around US$1.1 million annually - i.e. US$168/manzana.
Table 2. Estimation of Incremental Financial Benefits of Technology Adoption
Tecnoloy -Gro            Withot          With    JWi & Wthoud   % -                     e4ei
-TecbuologY -  Tecnology      Twcbnoiog  . opfion   Incoe per
V# efpred rs) gY opro4ducers)( oIprodee -            -  - M  z
Incremental Benefits on Beans Production  First Crop - Average 1.47 Manzanas
Improved Seeds                      779           1567           2346    67%*
Post-harvest                       1037           1309           2346    56%                62        120,104
Integrated Pest Management         1893            453}          2346     19%               85         56,547
Soil & Water Management             726           1620           2346    69%°
Incremental Benefits on Corn Production - First Crop - Average 1.62 Manzanas
Improved Seeds                     1151           3451           4602     75% /
Post-harvest                       1865           2737           4602    59%                15         68,357
Integrated Pest Management         2576           2026           4602    44%                57        188,448
Soil & Water Management            2305           2297|          4602    50%                21         79,384
Incremental Benefits on Rice Production - First Crop - Average 1.61 Manzanas
Improved Seeds                      181            300            481                       69         33,206
Integrated Pest Management          393             88            481     18%              227         32,114
Soil & Water Management             204            277            481    58%              (72)        (32,221)
Incremental Benefits on Beans Production - Second Crop - Average 1.62 Manzanas
Improved Seeds                       34           17731          1807    98%                77        222,121
Post-harvest                        657           11501          1807    64%              -               -
Integrated Pest Management         1435            3721          1807    21%                44         26,416
Soil & Water Management             550           1257j          1807    70%                81        164,604
Incremental Benefits on Corn Production - Second Crop - Average 1.66 Manzanas
Improved Seeds                       43           1475|          1518    97%               (34)       (83,045)
Post-harvest                        558            960           1518    63%                24         37,715
Integrated Pest Management         1011|           5071          1518|   33%j**
Soil& Water Management              212           1306           1518    86%                87        189,335
Incremental Benefits on Rice Production - Second Crop - Average 2.65 Manzanas
Improved Seeds                                     130            130   100%                 *               *
Post-harvest                         36             94            130    72%                 *               *
Integrated Pest Management           96             34            130    26%                93          8,402
Soil & Water Management               5            125            130    96%                 *              *
TWttX~ nau:ll;1  (USS)                                J_ __   __  _ -   -_                _ v--I1|-   - 
* Values statistically not significant.
- 43 -



(iv) Economic Performance ofATPI andATP2 in Nicaragua
The following presents an analysis of the impact of the ATP I and ATP2 programs, based on the workl of
Keynan et al., (1997), and Dinar and Keynan (1998). The data set is based on two sources, in turn based
on a similar data collection tool which includes the same list of variables. The ATP2 subset is derived from
seasonal reports from the seven private firms providing technical assistance in Nicaragua in 1997. It
comprises crop-level data for various seasons in 1997-98, and data for the 1997 crop year. The ATP:
subset employs seasonal reports produced in 1997 by each extension agent in their agency service are.3, and
includes data for multiple crops at the same farm. Both subsets include data before ATP l/ATP2 actijx!ties
(Base) and after ATPl/ATP2 (Real). Each subset includes the following farm level variables: agricul;-.Lral
region and farm size (ATP1 only) and farmer name; and (at the crop level): area harvested; yield/land unit;
production costs; crop price; proceeds; net income; unit cost; B/C ratio; and gross margin. The ATP I
subset includes observations from 4 (Al-Leon, A2-Masatepe, B3-Esteli, C6-Juigalpa) out of 5 produ lion
regions in Nicaragua (no information for B5-Matagalpa). The ATP2 subset includes 188 Base and 19')
Real observations; and ATP1, 213 Base and Real.
Given relatively limited data, and relying on existing research, only a limited number of hypotheses were
tested, comparing economic performance of the Real with the Base situation. Provision of extension
technologies to producers is expected to result in superior performance of Real over Base situations. I he
hypotheses are valid for both ATP I and ATP2 and include: (a) gross margin per unit of land is higher
under Real situation compared with Base; (b) production costs are higher under Real situation compat ed
with Base;* (c) yields of the various crops are higher under Real situation compared with Base; and (cI 
variance of both gross margin and yield values is smaller under Real situation compared with
Base.**Average value of the variable was computed for Base and Real situations and statistically chec hed
for significant difference.
* Production costs in the Real situation may be higher due to use of new, more expensive technologies that were made available to producers b, the
paici extension. Even if it is hypothesized that production costs were higher in the Real situation, the additional yields and yield quality are such i hat
the Gross margin value is higher in the Real situation (see hypothesis 1).
** It is assumed that Extension activities reduce the variance of perforrnance indicators of the producers.
Crop level analyses were performed for ATP1 and ATP2 data. For ATP 1, an additional analysis of gr( oss
margin and production cost was also performed for the entire sample of 112 producers. Using data froma
Dinar and Keynan (1998), producer payments for extension were subtracted from the gross margin to l ield
an estimate of the ability to pay for service.
Statistical comparisons were made of key variables, corresponding to the hypotheses above. Data for ATP2
permit crop level analysis of Maize, Cafe, Sorghum and Beans, and for observations at farm level. For
each variable tested (area farmed, yield, production cost, and gross margin), mean, standard deviation, and
minimum and maximum values, were calculated as shown in the following Table 3.
- 44 -



Table 3: Results for Beans. Maize, Coffee, Sorghum, for ATP2 and at Farm Level (ATP2 and ATP1,
1997)
Area farmed             Yield| Cw of proDdcino |   Gross M n,-
situation    Base
A. Maize for ATP2
Mean      3.21       2.99       19.45      26.03     880.11     1030.93    585.03     789.10
S.D.      2.09       2.10       6.70       12.24     328.81     315.32     862.61     586.14
Min Value 1          0.5        5          4         250        400        -360      -300
Max Value 12         12         40         60        2100       2325       3550      2280
B. Coffee for ATP2
Mean      5.08       5.20       12.08      14.92     2964.59   4294.06   4548.87    7162.47
S.D.      6.03       6.02       7.85       9.80      3009.95    4147.76   4166.94   5456.71
Min Value 0.5        0.5        3          3          195       400        107        1190
Max Value 24         24         28         35         11200    114000      15540      21000
C. Sorghum for ATP2
Mean      2.63       3.63       21.72      32.63     990.90     1079.63    320.00     1423.60
S.D.      2.11       2.83       7.98       6.51       151.35    200.13     386.81     448.63
Min Value I          1          10         25         800       800        -200       813
Max Value 7          10         35         42         1200      1500       1100       2160
D. Beans for ATP2                                                                               1
Mean       1.88      1.92       8.69       9.67       1131.20    1231.65    1690.03    2960.75
S.D.      1.16       1.20       2.81       3.74      397.38    487.06      1015.58    1317.49
Min Value 0.5        0.5        4          0         350        300        -300       0
Max Value 6          5          17         17         2050      2500       4550       6000
E. Results at Farm level for ATP2 |                              _          _
Mean      2.22       2.82                             130.51    159.82    686.75      1609.71
S.D.      1.63       2.01                            81.03      112.02     920.86     1302.21
Min Value 1          1                                60        70         -360       210
Max Value 8          10                              300        3X80       3500       6515
F. Results at Farm level for ATPI |
Mean      1.84       1.91                             1201.39    1370.05   2271.52   2913.98
S.D.      1.74       2.95                            758.72     778.28     5130.57    6164.00
Min Value 0.12       0.12                            42         200        -12960    -8720
Max Value 17         33                              4380       7008       41760      53010
- 45 -



The above analytical approach includes simplistic assumptions for ATP1 and ATP2. Using crop-level
information only, or farm-level partial information, may bias results. Data quality is also likely to be an
issue: (a) there was no control group (no extension) to account for 'year effects', which may explain
significant difference in "Base" and "Real" performance. Control group data would permit an inference
about "year effect" or net paid-extension impact; (b) although different technologies were provided h,y
both ATPI and ATP2, there is no "use of technology" information showing which farrners used the
technology in their production process; (c) inclusion of production region information might also beter
explain performance variation; and (d) regional codes were not used. Finally, for unknown reasons, o(lily
four production regions are included in the INTA data base. However, in spite of these limitations, the
analysis provides some very important preliminary conclusions conceming paid extension performance
and impact in Nicaragua. The preliminary findings confirm that there is a need to conduct a thorough
Beenefit-Cost analysis of paid extension in Nicaragua.
T wo conclusions can be drawn. First, assuming satisfactory data collection and consistent quality of le
calculation of economic parameters for the producers, it is likely that both ATPI and ATP2 systems are
profitable. Both ATP I and ATP2 cover short-term production cost and also leave in most cases,
suifficiently wide margin to cover paid extension fees. Second, all hypotheses were generally confirmed:
yield, production cost and gross margin values increased significantly between the Base and Real
situations. Although not an hypothesis to be inferred, it was observed that area under production was
a: so significantly increased between Base and Real situations. This observation may have important
theoretical and policy implications if proven valid under a correct sampling procedure as the one set up
under the new APL. It would mean that farmers view ATP I and ATP2 as risk-reducing programs,
allowing them to expand cultivated area. The fourth hypothesis (reduction in the variance of results
under real situation in both ATPI and ATP2) was not confirmed. Results are inconclusive and shoul[ be
viewed with caution given concems about the sampling process.
TihLe better performance of paid extension is explained mainly by increased yields and crop prices. W. i le
the former probably result from use of improved technologies, increased crop prices may come from
improved yield quality, better marketing strategies, or simply macro economic policies reflected in
agricultural product prices. Higher-cost technologies were introduced to producers by paid extension
agents, resulting in increased cost of production for every crop analyzed. However, the gross margin :or
paid extension is significantly higher than the Base situation, at both crop and farm levels.
- 46 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
2-3/92                      14   Task Manager
Rural Finance
Environmnentalist
LATAG
CECTP
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
RUTA
Econornist
RUTA
FAO
5/92                         4   Task Manager
N/A
RUTA
Environmentalist
6-7/92                      14   Task Manager
Rural Finance
Land Technician
N/A
IDB N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Agriculturist
FAO/CP
Economist
N/A
FAO
10/92                        8   Task Manager
Land Technician
Environmentalist
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
1/93?
- 47 -



AppraisallNegotiation
2-3/93                      12   Task Manager
Economist
Inst. Development
Land Technician
Environmentalist
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
Agriculturist
FAO/CP
Cons.
Supervision
8/93                         2   Task Manager                        S             S
Economist
S             S
2/94                         5   Task Manager
Titling
Agriculture
Land Technician
Cadastre Management
7/94                         5   Task Manager                        S             S
Project Management and Partic.
Agriculture
Legal Aspects
Gender Integration
12/94                        4   Task manager                        S             S
Agriculture
Project Management
Tech. Transfer
6/95                         5   Task Management                     S             S
N/A
Agriculture
Project Manager
Tech. Transfer
12/95                        8   COSUDE                              S             S
Agriculture Specialist
Titling, Registry and Cadaster
(3)
Task Manager
Rural Finance Specialist
Ag. Tech Transfer
6/96                         5   Task Manager                        S              S
Pesticides Mgmnt
Agriculture
Titling, Registry, Cadaster
Rural Finance Sp.
- 48 -



12/96                         1   Task Manager                         S             S
6/97                          4   Task Manager                         S             S
Ag. Tech Generation
Land Management
Agric. Tech. Transfer
11/97                         6   Task Manager                         S             S
Land Management
Agric. Tech. Transfer
Agriculture Specialist
Ag. Economist
Ag. Researcher
3/98                          4   Team Leader                          S             S
Task Manager
Agriculture Specialist
Ag. Economist
6/98                          4   Team Leader                          S              S
Task Manager
Agriculture Sp.
Ag. Economist
2/99                          2   Ag Tech Specialist                   S              S
Land Specialist
8/99                          7   Task Manager                         S              S
Sr. Agricultural
Economist/RUTA
N/A
N/A
Land Information Spec.
Procurement Analyst
N/A
6/2000                        2   Land Specialist                      S              S
Sr. Agricultural Economnist
ICR
-49 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               85.9                        210.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    46.3                        117.1
Supervision                             291.7                        970.6
ICR                                       9.5                         49.2
Total                                   433.4                      1,347.6
- 50 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
l Macro policies                         O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
a Sector Policies                        OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
E Physical                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
a Financial                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              O H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                          OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                          OH OSUOM ON ONA
E Other (Pleasespecify)            O h  OSUOM  ON   * NA
El Private sector development            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
a Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 51 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(IIS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
[l Lending                                           OHS*S   OU  OHU
Ei Supervision                                       O HS * S   OU   OHU
L Overall                                            OHS OS   OU  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                       O HS * S   O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              0 HS * S  0 U  0 HU
LI Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS * S  0 U  O HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U   O HU
- 52 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    Inforrne de Cierre (ICR): Proyecto de Tecnologia Agropecuaria y Ordenamiento de la Propiedad
Agraria (ATLMP), Ministerio Agropecuario y Forestal (MAG-FOR), Septiembre de 2000.
2.    Informe de Cierre: INTA, 2000.
3.    Informe de Cierre: Subcomponente de Titulacion de Tierras - Program Nacional de Catastro,
Titulacion y Registro, OTR, July 12, 2000.
4.    Informe Nacional de Cierre: ATLMP, Corte Suprema de Justicia (CSJ), Subcomponente Registro
Publico, Mayo de 2000.
5.    Cierre del Proyecto: ATLMP Subcomponente Catastro, Instituto Nicaraguense de Estudios
Territoriales (INETER), Mayo de 2000.
6.    Cofinanced Public Extension in Nicaragua -- Gabriel Keynan, Manuel Olin, Ariel Dinar, 1997.
7.    The Cost and Performnance of Paid Agricultural Extension Services: The Case of Agricultural
Technology Transfer in Nicaragua - Ariel Dinar, Gabriel Keynan, June 1998.
8.    Estudio de las Dinamicas de la Economia Rural: Impacto de Proyectos de Legalizaci6n de la
Propiedad en Nicaragua (draft), University of Wisconsin, August 2000.
9.    Sintesis Descriptiva y Evaluativa de los Proyectos Pilotos, INETER, September 2000.
10.   Property Rights and Land Conflicts in Nicaragua: A Synthesis, de Janvry and Sadoulet, July
2000.
11.   Informe Sintesis de los Resultados del Estudio de IRAM, R. Saenz, (undated).
12.   Land Markets, Land Access and the Impacts of Policies, Deininger and Chamorro (undated).
13.   Women's Land Rights: Lessons Learned from Nicaragua, Sara Ceci, December 2000.
14.   Annual, procurement, audit and other reports, and Bank project supervision reports, available in
the project file and the files of the Project Coordination Unit.
15.   Measuring the Cost and some Performande Indicators of Paid Extension: the case of Agricultural
Technology Transfer in Nicaragua, Dinar A., and Keynan, G., August 17, 2000.
- 53 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Completion Report - Executive Summary
The following is the Executive Summary of the Borrower Implementation Completion Report (BICR A on
the ATLMP, prepared by the Nicaraguan Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAG-FOR). The full
report is available in the project archive.
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY AND LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit No- 2536-NI and
Swiss Contribution TF 14-03090-NI
Introduction
This document is Nicaragua's (Borrower's) Implementation Completion Report (BICR) evaluating the
implementation of the Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project (ATLMP) and prepared for
project Closing.
In 1990, a new, democratically-elected government took office when the economy in Nicaragua was in
disarray. During the decade of the 1980's, the bulk of the country's economy was controlled by the State.
As a result, the economy was unbalanced: total exports and GNP per capita had declined to about 40%o of
the levels attained in the early 1970's and huge fiscal and balance-of-payment deficits had resulted in
hyperinflation. In addition, foreign debt was ten times the country's GNP. A large number of urban arLd
rural properties had been either confiscated or nationalized under the previous socialist-oriented regime.
Within this context and after the successful implementation of a structural adjustment program in the
period from 1991-92, supported by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement, the World Bank, after a 13-year hiatus,
made an IDA credit to Nicaragua on August 5, 1993 to finance the ATLMP. The credit for SDR 33.1
million (equivalent to US$44.0 million) was co-financed by the Swiss Development Cooperation
(COSUDE) with a Grant of 6.75 million Swiss Francs (equivalent to US$4.5 million). The Governmen-t
of Nicaragua (GON) would contribute the equivalent of US$9 million to the project, which was expected to
be executed over a 5-year period (1993-98).
The project would be implemented by the following institutions/agencies: Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAG, currently MAGFOR), Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA),
Nicaraguan Institute of Agrarian Reform (then INRA and currently the Rural Titling Office, OTR), and
50,000 small and medium farmers. The project-executing agencies were MAGFOR, INTA, and the
Nicaraguan Institute of Natural Resources and Environment (then IRENA and currently MARENA) for
the Agricultural Technology Component of the project; and INRA, the Nicaraguan Institute of Territorial
Studies (INETER), the Public Register of the Nicaraguan Supreme Court of Justice (Registro Puiblico),
and MARENA for the Land Management Component of the project.
Throughout its seven years of execution, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended four
times to make needed adjustments for implementation purposes. The first amendment was approved in
July., 1994, updating IRENA to its new name, MARENA. The second amendment was approved in
November, 1995, to allow the creation of the Rural Financial Services Development Pilot component. The
third amendment, approved in 1998, was designed to reprogram the financial resources of the Swiss Grant
in order to finance all the activities of the Agricultural Technology component. The fourth and last
- 54 -



amendment was approved in June, 1999, to reschedule activities resulting from the institutional changes
generated by Law 290 (relating to the re-organization of the State). This amendment specifically affected
the original institutional setting of the Land Management Component of the project.
Project Objectives and Description
The main objectives of the project were to: (a) increase the agricultural production of small and medium
farmers; (b) develop and transfer sustainable and environmentally-sound agricultural technology to
farmers; and (c) improve security of land tenure through the validation of property rights. These
objectives were to be met through two major components:
The Agricultural Technology Component would decentralize agricultural public-sector services and
support the development of a demand-driven mechanism for private and public agricultural research and
extension. It would also consolidate agricultural research and technology-transfer services into a new,
decentralized Nicaraguan Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA), incorporating soil conservation and
pesticide management as integral parts of the system. Specifically, the project would, through INTA,
support programs for: (i) Technology Validation and Transfer (TVT) to emphasize crop management
research and extension focused on small and medium farmers, including an artesanal (on-farm) seed
program; (ii) Integrated Pest Management; (iii) Soil and Water Conservation; (iv) Agricultural Research
Grants; and (v) Academic Studies. In addition, the Agricultural Technology component would support: (a)
a MAGFORIMARENA Pesticide Management Program, as part of establishing a national,
environmentally-sound strategy for pesticide use and management; and (b) a Private Extension Services
Program (PTA) to help farmer groups contract technical assistance from private, extension service
providers.
The Land Management Component would support the design and implementation of a massive land
titling and registration system, establish a national cadastre, and commence the modernization process in
Property Registration services. Specifically, the project would: (a) streamline administration and improve
inter-agency coordination among INRA (now OTR), INETER, and the Public Register; (b) establish the
basis for an efficient national cadastre; (c) strengthen the Public Register at the central and departmental
levels; (d) support the issuance of 50,000 titles, prioritizing beneficiaries by zones (land-titling modules)
according to their relative technical, legal and administrative complexity; (e) provide technical assistance
and equipment to improve field supervision and quality control for cadastral surveys and plot demarcation,
titling and registration; and (f) finance studies aimed at establishing the legal, administrative and technical
groundwork for the future demarcation of boundaries of indigenous community lands and natural reserves.
The project would also support a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to coordinate and monitor both
components and special studies.
These objectives were realistic and appropriate given the circumstances that Nicaragua was experiencing at
the time. They were also consistent with the government's overall economic development and the Bank's
country strategy.
It should be mentioned that the project did not intend to directly link the beneficiaries of the two main
components. Thus, from project execution there are no statistics that show farmers benefited by both the
extension services of INTA and the titling process of [NRA/OTR. Extension services were aimed mainly
at small farmers with some production stability and credit record, living mainly in the Pacific and Western
Region of the country. On the other hand, beneficiaries of the titling process were mainly poor peasants
with no credit background, with no production history (as in the case of the former guerrillas and army
people), and mostly located in the Macrocentral and Atlantic Regions of the country.
- 55 -



Implementation Experience
The project aimed at providing resources for Nicaragua to rehabilitate the agricultural sector through the
inlroduction of new alternatives for technological generation and transfer, as well as to support the
technical and institutional framework for defining and providing legal guarantees for land tenure. Thrcough
these objectives, the project provided support to its main beneficiaries.
The project provided specific support in strengthening the institutional capacity of the entities involved in
project implementation with the purpose of providing better service, nationwide. The Agricultural
Technology component supported the country's small and medium farmers by providing training and
technical assistance relating to new technological transfer and extension techniques. INTA, its
implementation agency, is now a mature, leading public institution operating in the agricultural sector and
has established a good relationship with the private sector.
The Land Management component provided support by strengthening some of the institutions that
generated information and services related to land tenure. One of these, INETER, now has the capacity to
implement its responsibility for managing a physical, nationwide cadastre with greater efficiency. In a
comnplementary manner, INETER and the Public Registry use the information they generate to verify and
complement land demarcation within their respective legal competence. Both institutions coincided in rhe
quality and type of services provided with accurate and current information related to any transaction
within the legal land-property framework. The new Rural Titling Office (OTR), founded in 1998, has had
limited time for institutional-building and, although it has recently improved its organizational structure and
gained experience in the operational aspects of land- titling, still requires a massive, long-term institutional
and training program to better manage its responsibilities within a new, legal and institutional framework.
Assessment of Outcome
Despite initial delays in disbursement and shortage of resources at mid-term, by closing time, the project
had substantially achieved its physical objectives. Achievements were less remarkable with regards to the
development of policy- oriented capacity and the improvement of evaluation and monitoring systems, both
inter and intra-institutionally. These shortcomings may have been due mainly to the fact that the project
did not contemplate an integrated information management system that would require close coordination for
project monitoring and follow-up, given the high diversity and degree of commitment to the project by the
various implementation agencies involved.
Other aspects of the project demonstrated greater progress. This was particularly true concerning
improvements in the supervision of field activities and monitoring by INTA to ensure the quality of services
provided by its departmental offices, oriented towards encouraging farmers to actively participate in the
technological and extension services being undertaken.
Project impact has not been evaluated at the end of its implementation. Nevertheless, it is important to state
that the work carried out thus far has contributed to the establishment of the foundations for sector-policy
formulation and agricultural services for small and medium farmers. It has likewise set the initial stages
for a more in-depth analysis of the rainbow of problems regarding land tenure and security in Nicaragua.
Along the same lines, through the Land Management component, the project contributed to highlighting the
confusion that exists in Nicaragua with regards to the legal aspects of land tenure and security.
Additionally, the project contributed in bringing to the surface the lack of trust that exists within the private
banking system with regard to land titles.
- 56 -



The Rural Financial Services Development Pilot brought out the main constraints, particularly in
regulatory, supervisory, micro-finance technology, and legal areas, related to setting up a network of rural
bank branches operated by the private banking system. This Pilot was an interesting program, intended to
establish a friendly, working relationship among private bankers, nonprofit institutions (NGO's), public
agencies, and household beneficiaries (mainly small and medium farmers). Coordinating these diverse
participants - and attempting to have them reach an effective compromise on final goals - clearly showed
the many difficulties faced by the Borrower in fully achieving the Pilot's credit objectives.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
The implementing agencies were: the Nicaraguan Institute for Agricultural Technology (INTA), the
Nicaraguan Institute of Agrarian Reform (INRA-currently OTR), the Nicaraguan Institute of Territorial
Studies (INETER); the Land Registry of the Supreme Court (CSJ); the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environment (MARENA); and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (now MAGFOR). Another
participant contemplated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was BANADES. MARENA also
coordinated activities with the Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Health, and Ministry of Public
Transportation.
Project design was very complex, with too many implementing agencies (the six mentioned above) which
rendered the project difficult to manage and coordinate, in spite of the subscription of implementation
agreements between MAGFOR and INTA, MAGFOR and INRA; and cooperation agreements among
MARENA, INETER, BANADES, and CSJ. Another weakness lay in the institutional arrangements:
MAGFOR, as the Borrower, was given the responsibility of project coordinator, and of transferring most
of the credit proceeds earmarked for [NRA and INTA. This arrangement left MAGFOR without leverage
to enforce any decision regarding the reallocation of resources made by CONAGRO.* Additionally, the
Supreme Court, which has a ranking equal to that of the Executive Branch, was made subservient to
INRA/OTR. This made CSJ an unwilling partner in project execution.
* During project preparation . the GON created the National Agficultural Council (Consejo Agropecuario Nacional - CONAGRO). This
coordinating body would provide a sector-wide policy formulation and management forum for the Ministries of the three main-sector institutions
(MAGFOR, INRA and IRENA), with MAGFOR as Head of the Council.
Other factors which negatively affected project execution were: (i) inadequate procurement procedures;
(ii) a flawed mid-term review; (iii) the transition period due to a change in government (in early 1997); and
(iv) managerial changes suffered by the project: change of Project task managers by IDA and change of
Ministers and/or Managers by the GON in the executing agencies involved in its implementation. To a
certain degree, these changes were responsible for the delays in some agencies in reaching their proposed
objectives. The Closing Date was extended twice: first from December, 1998, to 1999; and then to June,
2000. As mentioned earlier, the Legal Agreement was amended four times.
Summary of Findings
Overall, the project was successful in reaching its main objectives. It can be stated that overall
perfornance was satisfactory. At closing date, the project had benefited about 17,000 small and medium
farmers aniually, and had issued approximately 28,141 titles (85% of the total revised target).
Through component activities, the project contributed to the consolidation of a new INTA by rehabilitating
its units for research and extension services through technical assistance, annually, to over 17,000 small
and medium farmers who had not had access to such services before. This was accomplished through the
- 57 -



agricultural research and extension programs within the scope of technological transfers applied in the
field. Additionally, the Agricultural Research Grant Program drew from national and international
expertise (i.e., universities, international research centers, NGO's) to adapt existing technologies in a
cost-effective manner. The Private Technical Assistance Programs (PTA) developed into a demand-driven
system of agricultural extension, using market incentives to improve and enhance farmer coverage. The
private extension program assisted an average of 17,000 producers annually with 180 extensionists. At
project closing date the total clientele assisted by ATP's Programs were over 21,000 small farmers.
The tasks initiated with the project have created the appropriate setting for the agricultural sector of
Nicaragua to begin a new phase aimed at strengthening small and medium farmers, nationwide. To co so,
the GON has designed a strategy to increase and enhance extension services with the purpose of offeri ng
farmers a wider selection of options when choosing an appropriate, validated technology, all with a view to
increasing their productivity and income. In addition, the interest of the rural population within the
agricultural sector, together with the govemrnent's commitment to continue activities initiated by the
project, have positively resulted in the projection of future operations. As part of these efforts, the GI :IN
sector strategy is aimed at increasing and strengthening the levels of knowledge of the rural clientele ti-)
promote interaction in the areas of technological generation and transfer, agricultural research, techni, al
assistance, and agricultural education and technical training. This would generate, promote and nurture
inniovations that would be economically beneficial and respond to the needs and feasibility of having srnall
and medium farmers adopt new technologies, incorporating them into their daily activities.
Other activities financed by the project within the Agricultural Technology Component include the
Pesticide Control Management Program (PROMAP), which aimed at providing technical assistance a:nd
guidance in this area. With the work carried out, Nicaragua accomplished the formulation and legal
approval by the National Assembly of a General Pest Control Law officially enacted in 1998, with its
Legal Statutes approved in 1999. Additionally, MARENA initiated the organization of a National Cenwer
foT Information and Documentation of Toxic Substances, the preparation of a Manual for the Use and
Maintenance of Pesticide Equipment, and the formulation of a statute for the safe transportation of
dangerous and toxic waste. To date, PROMAP has carried out an evaluation of the levels of residual
pesticide in the food chain products consumed locally as well as studies on the levels of contamination
prc.duced by chemicals used as pesticides in critical areas (near some of the country's water reservoirs).
Fir.ally, one of PROMAP's main achievements was the disposal of about 200 Metric Tons of
toxic-agrochemical waste materials, which played a key role in Nicaragua becoming a signer of the Ba sel
Environmental Treaty. This toxic waste disposal operation was the first of its kind in Nicaragua and it 
Central America.
Regarding the institutional strengthening for the entities involved in the activities with PROMAP (Min istry
of L,abor, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Public Transportation, MAGFOR, and MARENA, among
others), massive training seminars and workshops took place in order to train 7,900 technical personnel
from all these entities - as well as small farmers - in the Appropriate Use and Safe Handling of Pestic...les.
These workshops and seminars were conducted jointly with the Private Agrochemical Distribution and
Formulation Association. Training was also given on diverse techniques and issues for each respective
area within the framework of appropriate pesticide handling, focusing this orientation from the perspect ive
of each entity involved. Most, if not all, studies and research carried out by PROMAP are being used by
MARENA in their design of the National Environmental Strategy to be implemented in the near future
- 58 -



Regarding the Land Management component, INRA (later OTR), was able to issue about 28,141 titles
(56.3% of the original target and 88% of the revised target), covering 1,100 plots (fincas matrices) with an
area of about 1.18 manzanas (843,000 ha) and benefiting a total of approximately 118,000 farmers. In
addition to these titling activities aimed at beneficiaries of Agrarian Reform, the Land Management
component attempted to address the titling needs of small, private farmers. The component supported a
pilot-titling activity with a coffee-grower cooperative. This pilot titling was supposed to benefit 1, 1 87
private farmers but various factors - among them, weak technical and legal supervision by the former
INRA (now OTR), an inaccurate beneficiary diagnosis, and lack of cadastral supervision - resulted in only
914 titles being issued. Due to these obstacles, when the pilot program concluded, no further action was
contemplated to address the needs of small, private farmers for land titles.
At the beginning of the project and especially since January, 1997, the project began financing specific
cadastre activities for fNETER, which permitted the establishment of a multipurpose, uniform cadastre
covering 35,455 Km2, including 74 satellite images of the entire country. Overall, INETER to date has
established the National Vertical Datum Network and Geodesic Network. It has also been able to make
aerial photos in an area of 50,455Km2 and acquire Otho-photomaps in 35,300Km2 of the land-registered
zones in the pacific and central regions of the country. The project also provided financing to make 350
spatial maps at a 1:25,000 scale in 40,00OKm2 and 90 spatial maps at 1: 100,000 scale, also in the Pacific
and Central region of the country. In seven pilot zones selected in the country, a Territorial Information
System was set up. These accomplishments have contributed to establishing the foundations for Nicaragua
to have a Cartographic Base, an updated Cadastral System, and a more clearly-defined Territorial
Information System. At the time of this report, the project had also financed the construction of INETER's
seven new, fully-equipped offices throughout the country.
The project provided support to the Supreme Court of Justice through the Public Registry Component,
which initiated a Pilot Plan of Registry Reform in the city of Masaya that has been successfully carried out.
The results of this pilot will serve as a basis for future registry activities within the reform process
currently being implemented by the Supreme Court of Justice. The pilot entailed the organization and
updating of property registry inforrnation through the establishment and implementation of an Owners
Index, Archives, Documentation Controls, and a Daily Entry Book (Libro de Diario) - a notarized control
mechanism for the reception and control of documents received on a daily basis. The project also improved
the Land Registry's organizational procedures and strengthened its capacity to execute and maintain the
land registry. The project likewise promoted the drafting of a bill to reform Nicaragua's current registry
law.
Finally, there is an activity that is not fully addressed in the body of the BICR, but is presented in Annex
due to the importance and relevance of the work executed: the Rural Financial Services Development Pilot
program. This Pilot contributed to closing the gap that existed for financial services in rural areas, is
credited with directly influencing the financial system to open twenty-two rural branches by private
commercial banks in the areas targeted by the project. Beyond the successful opening of these twenty-two
rural branches by private banks, the Pilot successfully revealed the main constraints which need to be
addressed for further introduction of rural micro-finance technology and operations in Nicaragua. The
GON and IDA are aware of these constraints and are currently treating them as priorities in the country's
Poverty Reduction Strategy which, ultimately, will ultimate to allow small farmers greater access to formal
credit. Further details and a description of this Pilot are reported in Annex D to this report.
- 59 -



As previously mentioned, the project was not successful in developing an evaluation system capable,) f
measuring its economic impact. Therefore, it is difficult to determine to what extent the project contributed
to increasing agricultural production and productivity. Nevertheless, MAGFOR and lNTA's database
shows increases in basic grains yield and crop diversification, both activities associated with the projc,t -
particularly with the INTA rural clientele. The Bank, in conjunction with the GON, carried out, ex po.it, a
cost-benefit exercise to determine the economic impact of the project. General data research and ana ysis
show that the extension program at INTA, implemented by both INTA and private extension services
companies, positively increased yields in basic grains crops and income, as compared with the average of
total country agricultural data. Bank research on the INTA extension program showed an average of 7%
as the internal rate of return. It is worth mentioning that in 1993, the co-financier, COSUDE, suppor,ed a
series of workshops at INTA to address the need for creating monitoring and evaluation instruments. But
since the project was designed without a logical framework (usually not the case where new projects are
concemed), later supervisory missions as well as 1NTA itself did not follow-up the results of these
workshops. Consequently, the final outcome of the project's evaluation system was not satisfactory.
Project Sustainability
Project sustainability is likely. INTA, which was created by the project, is now a mature institution with
the technical capacity to provide technology transfer and validation as well as extension services involv ing
the private sector. Based on ATLMP achievements, IDA has recently approved the Agricultural
Technology and Rural Technical Education Project, using the Adaptable Lending Program Facility.
A similar scenario occurred with the Land Management component. The project laid the groundwork for
administrative streamlining and improvement in inter-agency coordination. It defined functions and
responsibilities as well as the need for closer coordination among the sector institutions involved in laild
tenure and property rights. As above, IDA/Bank staff, together with the GON, are preparing a second
project related to Land Administration.
Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank performance during project identification was very satisfactory, but less so in the preparation andj
supervisory phases. At the time of project preparation in 1992, Nicaragua's institutions were extremely
vulnerable and, although this fact did not escape the attention of IDA and Borrower preparation teams,
project design did not adequately reflect this important reality. A simpler project would have made its
execution smoother and easier to evaluate. Regrettably, the institutional set-up was complex (five
execution agencies from the Executive Branch and one from the Judiciary Branch - the Supreme Court of
Justice), targets were ambitious in scope and to be accomplished in a short period of time. In overlooking
the country's institutional weaknesses, the preparation teams did not fully consider the implications: pc,or
execution capacity and lack of coordination among the GON entities involved in the project.
Bank perfomance in supervising the credit was satisfactory during the first stages and more effective
during the later stages of credit implementation. Early Bank supervisory reports focused narrowly on
formal matters (the mission addressed monthly operational aspects of the project, such as annual
operational goals and their compliance, drafting TOR's, and operational manuals). Insufficient attentiO n
was given to the factors hampering project execution (development of evaluation indicators to measure
cost-effectiveness and economic impact, complex institutional arrangements, step-by-step changes in
procurement procedures, rather than a-once- and-for-all solution, ambitious operational targets). Since
1997, Bank supervision improved and focused more on policy matters, institutional and legal aspects -
- 60 -



while achieving a balance between the technical and operational supervisory areas.
With regards to Borrower performance, project reporting was, for the most part, timely. However, there
were some shortcomings. CONAGRO bears some of the responsibility for not implementing an evaluation
system, different from monitoring, to measure project impact. Such shortcomings were unfortunate and
largely due to the institutional weaknesses present in MAGFOR and in other executing agencies, high
personnel turnover, and the various changes that have taken place at the highest management levels within
the institution itself and at the implementation agencies - particularly during the early stages of project
implementation.
The Swiss Development Agency (COSUDE) played a key role in the project. Swiss contribution financed
key aspects of the Agricultural Technology component activities carried out by INTA. As noted earlier,
they promoted workshops to address the monitoring and evaluation system. They were also flexible in
accepting the Nicaraguan Government's request to use the Swiss Grant for financing all INTA-related
activities in the final years of the project. Disbursement was timely, with minor delays towards the end of
the closing date. COSUDE consultants were always part of the supervisory missions for the duration of
the project.
The Borrower assumes a share of the responsibility for allowing a weak supervision and coordination
among all entities involved in project implementation.
Key Lessons Learned
See ICR main text (Section 10) "Additional Information" for verbatim presentation of lessons.
- 61 -



