Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2536 NI
                       Development Credit Agreement
           (Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated August 5, 1993
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2536 NI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
NICARAGUA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    (B)   the Association has received a letter dated June 28,
1993 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower's
agricultural sector (hereinafter called the Program) and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
    (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation (Switzerland) a non-reimbursable
contri- bution (the Swiss Contribution) in an amount equivalent
of six million seven hundred and fifty thousand Swiss Francs
(SwF 6,750,000) to assist in financing Part A.1 (a) (ii), A.1
(b), A.1 (c) and part of Part A.1 (d) of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss
Contribution Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
Page  2
and Switzerland;
    (D)   Switzerland intends to appoint the Association to
administer the Swiss Contribution according with the provisions
of the Procedural Arrangements dated May 9, 1990 between
Switzerland and the Association (the Arrangements), the
Association, intends to accept such appointment; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Advisory Committee" means the committee to be
established pursuant to Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement;
    (b)   "BANADES" means Banco Nacional de Desarrollo, the
Borrower's national development bank;
    (c)   "BANADES Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BANADES pursuant to Section 3.01
(e) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the BANADES
Agreement;
    (d)   "CONAGRO" means Consejo Nacional Agropecuario,
established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 36-92 published
in the Official Gazette Number 177 of September 16, 1992;
    (e)   "Credit Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
    (f)   "Enabling Legislation" means Decree-Law 275-92 of
October 14, 1992, Reglamento Procedimental of May 14, 1993,
Certificacion de Comision Nacional de Revision of May 28, 1993,
Decree-Law 47-92 of September 9, 1992, Presidential Decree 274-
92 of October 14, 1992, Reglamento de Tierras Rusticas of March
10, 1993, the letters referred to in Section 1.02 (m), (p),
(u), (w) and (aa), Decree Law 22-93 of March 26, 1993, INRA's
Organic Law of 38-91; and Presidential Decree No. 34-93 of June
23, 1993;
    (g)   "INETER" means Instituto Nicaraguense de Estudios
Territoriales, the Borrower's institute of territorial studies;
    (h)   "INETER Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement
entered into between the Borrower, through INRA (as defined
below), and INETER on April 30, 1993;
    (i)   "INRA" means Instituto Nicaraguense de Reforma Agraria,
the Borrower's institute of agrarian reform;
    (j)   "INRA Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and INRA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
Page  3
to the INRA Implementation Agreement;
    (k)   "INTA" means Instituto Nicaraguense de Tecnologia
Agropecuaria, the Borrower's institute of agricultural
technology;
    (l)   "INTA Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and INTA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the INTA Implementation Agreement;
    (m)   "Integrated Pest Management Program" means the program
furnished by the Borrower to the Association on June 21, 1993;
    (n)   "IRENA" means Instituto Nicaraguense de Recursos
Naturales y el Ambiente, the Borrower's institute of natural
resources and environment;
    (o)   "IRENA Cooperation Agreements" means the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and IRENA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
IRENA Cooperation Agreements;
    (p)   "Land Management Program" means the program furnished
by the Borrower to the Association on June 22, 1993;1
    (q)   "Land Registry" means Registro Publico de la Propiedad
Inmueble y Mercantil, the land registry of the Borrower's
Supreme Court;
    (r)   "Land Registry Cooperation Agreement" means the
agreement entered into between the Borrower, through INRA, and
the Supreme Court on April 30, 1993;
    (s)   "MAG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock;
    (t)   "PCU" means the project coordinating unit to be
established pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
    (u)   "Pesticide Management Program" means the program
furnished by the Borrower to the Association on June 21, 1993;
    (v)   "PSC" means the committee to be established pursuant to
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
    (w)   "Soil and Water Management Program" means the program
furnished by the Borrower to the Association on June 21, 1993;
    (x)   "Special Accounts" means collectively the Credit
Special Account and the Swiss Contribution Special Account;
    (y)   "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account
established by Switzerland for the purposes of the Swiss
Contribution;
    (z)   "Swiss Contribution Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) (ii) of this Agreement; and
    (aa)  "Technology Validation and Transfer Program" means the
program furnished by the Borrower to the Association on June
21, 1993.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
Page  4
currencies equivalent to thirty-one million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,100,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Swiss Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
    (b)   Except as the Association and Switzerland shall
otherwise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the proceeds
of the Swiss Contribution shall be governed mutatis mutandis by
the provisions of the General Conditions.
    (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project:
(i) and the Credit, open and maintain in dollars a special
deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) and the Swiss
Contribution, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing January 15, 2004 and ending July 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on July
15, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
Page  5
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Part A.1
of the Project through INTA; (ii) Part A.2 of the Project
through MAG with the assistance of IRENA; (iii) Part A.3 of the
Project through MAG; (iv) Part B.1 (a) of the Project through
INRA; (v) Part B.1 (b) and (c) through INRA with the assistance
of INETER; (vi) Part B.1 (d) of the Project through INRA with
the assistance of the Land Registry for Part B.1 (d) (i)
thereof; (vii) Part B.1 (e) of the Project through INRA with
the assistance of INETER and the Land Registry; and (viii) Part
B.2 of the Project through INRA with the assistance of IRENA,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, economic, financial, engineering and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with: (i) Project implementation and impact
indicators acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Credit available to: (i) INTA under an implementation agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and INTA, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association which shall include those set forth in Schedule 6
to this Agreement; and (ii) INRA under an implementation
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and INRA,
Page  6
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association which shall include those set forth in Schedule
6 to this Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower shall, through MAG and INRA, respectively,
enter into a cooperation agreement each with IRENA for purposes
of Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project, respectively, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
    (e)   The Borrower shall, through MAG, enter into an
agreement with BANADES under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association which shall include,
inter alia, that BANADES shall pay, in the name and on behalf
of the Borrower, for the services to be provided by extension
agents employed under Part A.3 of the Project.
    (f)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the INTA
Implementation Agreement, the INRA Implementation Agreement,
the BANADES Agreement, the INETER Cooperation Agreement, the
IRENA Cooperation Agreements and the Land Registry Cooperation
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the INTA Implementation Agreement, the INRA Implementation
Agreement, the BANADES Agreement, the INETER Cooperation
Agreement, the IRENA Cooperation Agreements, or the Land
Registry Cooperation Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association, after consultation
with Switzerland, shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Swiss Contribution shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter
maintain: (a) a Project coordinating unit in CONAGRO with
powers, responsibilities and staffing satisfactory to the
Association;
    (b)   a Project steering committee with composition, powers
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association;
    (c)   an advisory committee to assist the Borrower in the
approval of research subprojects to be carried out under Part
A.1 (d) of the Project with composition, powers and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
    Section 3.04. Without limitation to any of its obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   allocate in its annual budget, for the calendar years
1993 through 1998, the following minimum amounts for the
financing of the Project and for INTA's Operating Costs;
          (i)   $8,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 1993, of
                which at least $800,000 equivalent shall be from
                the Borrower's counterpart funding contribution;
         (ii)   $19,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 1994, of
                which at least $1,800,000 equivalent shall be
                from the Borrower's counterpart funding contri-
                bution;
        (iii)   $18,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 1995, of
                which at least $1,900,000 equivalent shall be
                from the Borrower's counterpart funding contri-
                bution;
         (iv)   $12,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 1996, of
Page  7
                which at least $1,900,000 equivalent shall be
                from the Borrower's counterpart funding contri-
                bution;
          (v)   $10,000,000 equivalent for calendar year 1997, of
                which at least $1,800,000 equivalent shall be
                from the Borrower's counterpart funding contri-
                bution; and
         (vi)   $6,500,000 equivalent for calendar year 1998, of
                which at least $800,000 equivalent shall be from
                the Borrower's counterpart funding contribution;
    (b)   for purposes of this paragraph, the term "INTA's
Operating Costs" means the salaries, operating and other costs
of INTA's operations not otherwise financed by the Credit, the
Swiss Contribution and the Borrower's counterpart funding
contribution to the Project in an amount of at least $1,500,000
equivalent for calendar year 1993 and $3,000,000 equivalent for
each calendar year thereafter of Project implementation, of
which an amount of at least $900,000 equivalent per year shall
be for costs other than salaries;
    (c)   open a subproject account each for INTA and INRA, and
deposit therein, and subsequently replenish, amounts
representing four months estimated expenditures for their
respective parts of the Project;
    (d) (i) maintain in respect of INTA and INRA: (A) an
organizational structure satisfactory to the Association; and
(B) key personnel positions detailed in such organizational
structures filled with personnel who shall have experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Association; and (ii) inform
the Association of any changes to INTA or INRA organizational
structures and any appointments or replacement of their key
personnel positions.
    Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   not later than one month before each of the annual
reviews referred to in paragraph (c) below, furnish to the
Association for its approval, the operating plans for each part
of the Project proposed to be carried out during the following
year, including as a part thereof the corresponding budgets and
the related Project implementation and impact indicators, and
specifying the extent of compliance with the operating plans
submitted the prior year, and implemented during that year;
    (b)   not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and
October 31 each year furnish to the Association progress
reports on the Project and the operating plans referred to in
paragraph (a) above;
    (c)   not later than August 31 each year, review with the
Association its progress in the implementation of the Project
and the Program, and in meeting the implementation and impact
indicators referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement;
    (d)   not later than August 31, 1995 review with the
Association, in addition to the matters referred to in
paragraph (c) hereof: the effectiveness of the institutional
and coordinating arrangements for the Project and the Program,
the impact of the Project on women farmers, and the status of
issues related to indigenous lands and natural reserves; and
    (e)   if the results of any of the reviews referred to in
paragraphs (c) and (d) hereof are not satisfactory to the
Association: (i) not later than sixty days after the respective
review, furnish to the Association an action plan, satisfactory
to the Association, with the remedial actions necessary to
Page  8
achieve the objectives of the Project and the Program and to
meet the imple- mentation and impact indicators referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and (ii) promptly, take
all remedial actions included in such action plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than six months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                thereof as the Association shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit report for the
                fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account
                or payment out of the Credit Special Account and
                the Swiss Contribution Special Account was made,
                all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
Page  9
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   INTA or INRA shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the INTA Implementation Agreement or the INRA
Implementation Agreement.
    (b)   Any of the Enabling Legislation shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect, in the Association's opinion, materially and adversely
the ability of the Borrower, INTA or INRA to carry out the
Project.
    (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)    The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                       proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                       Borrower for the financing of the Project
                       shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                       terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                       the terms thereof; or
                (B)    any such loan shall have become due and
                       payable prior to the agreed maturity
                       thereof.
         (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                suspension, cancellation, termination or
                prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                Project are available to the Borrower from other
                sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                the obligations of the Borrower under this
                Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
    (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)   any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Swiss Contribution Agreement have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
    (b)   the INTA Implementation Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and INTA;
    (c)   the INRA Implementation Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and INRA;
Page  10
    (d)   the PCU and the PSC have been established; and
    (e)   the Borrower shall have deposited in the subproject
accounts referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement an
aggregate amount of $1,500,000 equivalent as required by INTA
and INRA for the implementation of their respective parts of
the Project.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
    (a)   that the Swiss Contribution Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and Switzerland;
    (b)   that the INTA Implementation Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and INTA; and
    (c)   that the INRA Implementation Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and INRA.
    Section 6.03. The date November 3, 1993 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.01 (f), 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate
or on the date ten years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
    Section 6.05. In the event that Switzerland decides not to
appoint the Association as administrator pursuant to the
Arrangements, or the Association decides not to accept such
appointment or Switzerland or the Association decide to
terminate the functions of the Association as administrator
pursuant to such Arrangements, the Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower on the date on which Switzerland shall
assume the rights and obligations of the Association as
administrator under the Arrangements.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas
          Frente a la Asamblea Nacional
          Managua
          Nicaragua
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                MIFIN                          BCN NK 2460
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
Page  11
                INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
                By /s/ Roberto Mayorga Cortes
                                                Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                        and the Swiss Contribution
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and
the Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
     SCHEDULE 1 (TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMNS) PLEASE SEE MASTER
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "PTA Services" means the extension services
to be provided under Part A.3 of the Project by private
individuals, companies, non-governmental organizations or
producers' associations selected in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association;
      (d)   the term "Agricultural Research Grants" means grants
provided by INTA for the financing of agricultural research
subprojects under Part A.1 (d) of the Project which have been
approved by INTA and the Association; and
      (e)   the term "Soil Conservation Grants" means grants
provided by INTA for the financing of soil conservation
subprojects under Part A.1 (b) of the Project which have been
approved by INTA and the Association.
Page  12
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed SDR 710,000 equivalent may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March
31, 1993;
      (b)   training under Part A.1 (a) of the Project unless the
Association shall have approved the training program referred
to in Schedule 4, paragraph 6 (a) of this Agreement and INTA
shall have established the unit referred to in Schedule 4,
paragraph 4 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   Soil Conservation Grants under Part A.1 (b) of the
Project unless INTA has submitted procedures and guidelines for
the evaluation and approval thereof satisfactory to the
Association;
      (d)   Agricultural Research Grants under Part A.1 (d) of
the Project unless the Advisory Committee has been established,
the Association shall be satisfied with the results of the
assessment referred to in Schedule 4, paragraph 3 of this
Agreement and the respective research subproject has been
approved by the Association, if it is of an estimated value of
$150,000 equivalent or more;
      (e)   an academic study or scholarship under Part A.1 (e)
of the Project unless the respective study or scholarship has
been approved by the Association;
      (f)   Part A.3 of the Project unless the BANADES Agreement
has been executed, and the respective contract for the
provision of PTA Services has been approved by the Association;
      (g)   Part B of the Project unless the Borrower shall have
established the municipal land commissions referred to in the
Borrower's Reglamento Procedimental of May 14, 1993 in the
departments of Nueva Segovia, Chontales and Jinotega; and
      (h)   Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project unless the
respective IRENA Cooperation Agreement has been executed.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase
agricultural production by small and medium farmers; (b) to
develop and transfer sustainable and environmentally sound
agricultural technology to farmers; and (c) to improve security
of land property rights.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agricultural Technology
1.    Carrying out of:
      (a)   the Technology Validation and Transfer Program
including, inter alia: (i) rehabilitation of research
facilities and office space of INTA's regional offices,
validation trials and field demonstration at the farm level and
pre-service and in-service training of INTA's staff involved in
the carrying out of such program; and (ii) basic and artisanal
seeds for basic grains production;
      (b)   the Soil and Water Management Program including,
inter alia, training of INTA's planning, research and extension
Page  13
staff in soil and water management, upgrading of scientific and
field equipment and greenhouses, establishment of demonstration
plots in all the agronomic regions of the country and provision
of grants for selected soil conservation subprojects;
      (c)   the Integrated Pest Management Program including,
inter alia, trial and demonstration plots, studies to determine
the level of pesticide resistance of selected pests,
improvement of INTA's building and facilities and training of
INTA's staff in pest and pesticide management;
      (d)   a research program to adapt existing technologies in
a cost effective manner through the provision of grants for
selected subprojects; and
      (e)   an academic study and scholarship program for
scientists, and in agricultural fields, acceptable to the
Association.
2.    Carrying out of a Pesticide Management Program including,
inter alia, the training of pesticide applicators, monitoring
of the extent and distribution of pesticide residues and the
degree of human intoxication.
3.    Provision of private extension services to farmers, and
training of the providers of such extension services.
Part B:     Land Management
1.    Carrying out of the Land Management Program including,
inter alia:
      (a)   improvement of INRA's organizational procedures and
strengthening of INRA's capabilities to issue land titles and
carry out other land management functions for agricultural
producers;
      (b)   establishment of a multi-purpose uniform national
cadastre of the Borrower's territory, including the improvement
and updating of existing cadastral information;
      (c)   improvement of INETER's organizational procedures and
strengthening of INETER's capabilities to execute and maintain
its cadastral functions;
      (d)   (i) improvement of the Land Registry's organization
procedures and strengthening of its capabilities to execute and
maintain its land registry functions; and (ii) issuance and
registration of land titles to agricultural producers; and
      (e)   construction and/or remodeling of about 42 of INRA's,
INETER's and the Land Registry's regional offices.
2.    Studies on: (a) the legal and administrative status of
areas identified respectively as indigenous lands and natural
reserves; and (b) fields related to land management,
agricultural technology and the preparation of projects in
agriculture and natural resource development fields acceptable
to the Association.
                                   * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Page  14
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when the contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)  In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.  To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more and contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000
or more.
Part B:       Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:       Preference for Regional Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, a margin of preference
may be granted to bids offering goods described in the
accompanying specification which are manufactured to a
substantial extent in any country, including Nicaragua, which
is a party to the Mercado Comun Centroamericano, the common
market created by the General Treaty for Central American
Economic Integration signed at Managua, Nicaragua, on December
13, 1960 by Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and
Costa Rica (hereinafter called the CACM), in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.  For the purposes of Part B of this Schedule, the following
definitions shall apply:
    (a)  (i)  the term "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted
              by a manufacturer established in the territories of
              member countries, including Nicaragua, of the CACM,
              for goods manufactured or processed in such
              territories and for which the bidders shall have
              established to the satisfaction of the entity or
              agency inviting bids that the manufacturing or
              processing cost of such goods include a value added
              in such territories equal to at least 20% of the
              ex-factory bid price of such goods;
        (ii)  the term "non-Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid
              submitted by a manufacturer established in the
Page  15
              territories of member countries, including
              Nicaragua, of the CACM, for goods manufactured
              or processed in such territories, other than
              any such bid classified as a Qualified CACM
              Bid; and
      (iii)   the term "Foreign Bid" means any bid which is
              neither a Qualified CACM Bid or a Non-
              Qualified CACM Bid.
2.  All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted and
shall set forth the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference.
3.  Bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port
of entry) price of imported goods and the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods.
4.  Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be
compared on the basis of their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of
entry) price adjusted in accordance with paragraphs 2.49
through 2.54 of the Guidelines.
5.  After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following groups: Qualified CACM Bids, Non-qualified
CACM Bids or Foreign Bids.
6.  All bids in each group will be first compared among
themselves, to determine the lowest evaluated bid in each such
group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group will then be
compared with each other and if, as a result of this
comparison, an evaluated Qualified CACM Bid or Non-Qualified
CACM Bid is the lowest it will be selected for purpose of
award.
7.  If the lowest bid in the comparison under paragraph 6 above
is a Foreign Bid, all Foreign Bids will be further compared
with the lowest evaluated Qualified CACM Bid as determined
under paragraph 6 above. For the purposes of this comparison
only, each Foreign Bid will be compared on the basis of the sum
of its c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 4 above, plus an amount equal to
the smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered
in such Foreign Bid and that applicable to a Qualified CACM
Bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the
Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest evaluated bid in such
comparison, it shall be selected for the purpose of award;
otherwise, the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid as determined under
paragraph 6 above shall be so selected.
Part D:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Vehicles and agricultural equipment may be procured under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less
per contract, and works under Part B.1 (d) of the Project and
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to respectively
$1,500,000 for goods and $2,300,000 for works, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
3.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less
Page  16
per contract, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000 for goods and $1,000,000 for works, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)  With respect to: (i) all contracts procured pursuant to
the provisions of Part A.1 hereof; (ii) the first two contracts
for works and for goods procured pursuant to the provisions of
Part D.2 hereof; and (iii) all contracts for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
Page  17
prior Association's review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent each but not
exceeding in the aggregate $300,000 equivalent. However, this
exception to prior Association's review or approval
requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for
consultants, to the hiring of individuals, to single-source
hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
Actions to be taken by the Borrower                 Date (by)
1.  Adopt a mandatory training program
    and licensing procedures for
    pesticide applicators, pilots
    and suppliers                                   June 30, 1994
2.  Issue land titles following
    a format acceptable to the
    Association substantially in
    the form set forth in a
    publication issued by INRA
    on September 2, 1992                            At all times
3.  Furnish to the Association
    for its comments an assess-
    ment of the agricultural
    research projects
    carried out by INTA staff
    during the first two years                      July 31,
    of INTA's operations                            1995
4.  (a)  Furnish to the Association          )
         for its comments, the               )      Before commencing
         training program to be              )      implementation
         carried out under                   )      of the training
         Part A.1 (a) of the Project         )      program under
                                             )      Part A.1 (a) of
    (b)  Establish, and thereafter           )      the Project
         maintain, a training unit in        )
         INTA to monitor and supervise       )
         the training to be carried          )
         out under Part A.1 (a) of           )
         the Project                         )
    (c)  Carry out the training
         program referred to in
         paragraph (a) above
         modified as needed to
         take into account the
         Association's comments                     As specified in
         thereon                                    the program
5.  Authorize, upon payment of a
    fee, unrestricted access to
    cadastral information to
    public and private users                        December 31, 1993
6.  (a)  Furnish to the Association
         for its comments the
         recommendations from the
         study to be carried out by
         the Borrower on the advisa-
         bility of relocating and
         possibly privatizating the
Page  18
         Chinandega airport                         June 30, 1994
    (b)  commence implementation of
         the recommendations referred
         to in paragraph (a) above                  December 31, 1994
7.  Privatize or dissolve and dispose
    of the assets of, its Comision
    Nacional de Ganaderia, Comision
    Nacional del Cafe, and Comision
    Nacional de Algodon, the Borrower's
    commissions for cattle, coffee and
    cotton                                   December 31, 1993
                                SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)  the term "Credit Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Credit Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
    (d)  the term "Swiss Contribution Authorized Allocation"
means an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the
Swiss Contribution Account and deposited into the Swiss
Contribution Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Credit Authorized Allocation and the Swiss Contribution
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
    (a)  For withdrawals of the Credit Authorized Allocation and
the Swiss Contribution Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Credit Authorized Allocation and the Swiss Contribution
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution
Account and deposit in the Credit Special Account and the Swiss
Contribution Special Account, respectively, such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
              Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
              for deposits into the respective Special Accounts
              at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
        (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
              the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
              the documents and other evidence required
Page  19
              pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
              the payment or payments in respect of which
              replenishment is requested. On the basis of
              each such request, the Association shall, on
              behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
              Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution
              Account and deposit into the Credit Special
              Account and the Swiss Contribution Special
              Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
              requested and as shall have been shown by said
              documents and other evidence to have been paid
              out of the respective Special Accounts for
              eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
    (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account or the Swiss Contribution
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
    (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Swiss Contribution allocated to the eligible Categories, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Credit Authorized
Allocation or the Swiss Contribution Authorized Allocation as
the case may be.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit and the Swiss Contribution as the case may be, allocated
to the eligible Categories, shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special
Accounts, as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the respective Special Accounts shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
Page  20
    (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit
in the respective Special Accounts.
    (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account and the Swiss Contribution Account, as the case
may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions, and the Swiss Contribution
Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 6
              Terms and Conditions of the INTA Implementation
              Agreement and the INRA Implementation Agreement
    The INTA Implementation Agreement and the INRA
Implementation Agreement shall provide, inter alia, the
following rights and obligations:
    (a)  the Borrower's obligation to make available to INTA and
INRA respectively, as a grant, part of the proceeds of the
Credit, so as to enable INTA and INRA to carry out Part A.1 and
Part B of the Project, respectively;
    (b)  INTA's and INRA's obligations:
         (i)  to assist the Borrower in the implementation of
              their respective parts of the Project with due
              diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
              sound agricultural, financial, engineering,
              economic and environmental practices and standards;
        (ii)  to maintain records and separate accounts
              adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
              accounting practices, the operations,
              resources and expenditures in respect of their
              parts of the Project;
       (iii)  to assist the Borrower in meeting its
              obligations under Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.04
              (c) and (d), 3.05 and Article IV of this
              Agreement;
    (c)  the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
procured in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(ii) such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of their respective parts of the Project;
    (d)  the right of the Borrower:
         (i)  to inspect, by itself, or jointly with
              representatives of the Association, if the
              Association shall so request, INTA's and INRA's
              facilities in respect of the Project and any
              relevant records and documents;
        (ii)  to obtain all such information as the Borrower
              or the Association shall reasonably request
              regarding the foregoing, the administration,
              operations and financial condition of the
              Project and the benefits to be derived from
Page  21
              it; and
       (iii)  to suspend or terminate the right of INTA or
              INRA, as the case may be, to use the proceeds
              of the Credit upon failure by INTA or INRA, as
              the case may be, to perform any of their
              obligations under the INTA Implementation
              Agreement or the INRA Implementation
              Agreement.
