Page  1
November 3, 1995
His Excellency
Emilio Pereira Alegria
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Frente a la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, Nicaragua
Re:  Nicaragua - Credit No. 2536-NI (Agricultural Technology and Land
                 Management Project) Second Amendment to the Development
                 Credit Agreement
Excellency:
     Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Technology and Land Management Project) dated
August 5, 1993 between the Republic of Nicaragua (the Borrower)
and the International Development Association (the Association)
as amended on July 29, 1994.
     Pursuant to your request in letter dated May 18, 1995, and
further discussions between staff of the Borrower and the
Association, we agree to amend the Development Credit Agreement
to incorporate a new Project component consisting of a pilot
program on financial development for small farmers.
     Therefore, we propose the following amendments to the
Development Credit Agreement:
1.   Section 1.02 is hereby amended to incorporate the
following new subparagraphs:
          (bb) "Beneficiary" means a small farmer who meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Regulation Manual;
          (cc) "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
          (dd) "Financial Intermediary" means any financial
institution, duly established under the laws of the Borrower,
and which institution meets the eligibility criteria set forth
in the Credit Regulation Manual;
          (ee) "Intermediary Account" means the part of the
proceeds of the credit made or proposed to be made available by
the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary for the financing of
Subloans on behalf of the Borrower under an Intermediary
Agreement;
          (ff) "Intermediary Agreement" means an agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into by the
Borrower with a Financial Intermediary pursuant to Section 3.01
(h) of this Agreement and which agreement meets the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Credit Regulation Manual;
          (gg) "NFI" means a non-conventional financial
intermediary, as non-governmental organizations and credit
cooperatives, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in
the Credit Regulation Manual;
          (hh) "NFI Financing Agreement" means the agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into between a
Financial Intermediary and an NFI for purposes of making NFI
Financing Loan and which agreement meets the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Credit Regulation Manual;
          (ii) "NFI Financing Loan" means the loan made or
proposed to be made by a Financial Intermediary, partly out of
the proceeds of a Participation Loan and partly out of its own
resources, to an NFI for purposes of making a Subloan and which
loan meets the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to
this Agreement and the Credit Regulation Manual;
          (jj) "Participation Loan" means a loan made or
proposed to be made, with part of the proceeds of the Credit
and pursuant to a Participation Agreement, by the Borrower to
a Financial Intermediary and which meets the terms and
conditions set forth in  Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Credit Regulation Manual;
          (kk) "Participation Agreement" means an agreement,
satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into by the
Borrower with a Financial Intermediary pursuant to Section 3.01
(g) of this Agreement and which agreement meets the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Credit Regulation Manual;
          (ll) "Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made to a Beneficiary by either (i) the Borrower, through MOF,
(ii) a Financial Intermediary or (iii) an NFI to a Beneficiary
for an Investment Project and which loan meets the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Credit Regulation Manual;
          (mm) "Subloan Agreement" means an agreement,
satisfactory to the Association entered into between the
Borrower, through MOF, a Financial Intermediary or an NFI, on
one side, and a Beneficiary, on the other side, for purposes of
making a Subloan and which agreement meets the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Credit Regulation Manual;
          (nn) "Credit Regulation Manual" means the manual,
satisfactory to the Association, to be approved by the Borrower
and which manual contains, inter alia, (i) eligibility criteria
of a Financial Intermediary and NFI; (ii) procedures for filing
subloan and subloan rediscount applications; (iii) eligibility
criteria for Investment Projects; (iv) eligible expenditures
for financing under a Subloan; and (v) terms and conditions of
the Participation Agreements, Intermediary Agreements, NFI
Financing Agreements and Subloan Agreements;
          (oo) "Investment Project" means a specific investment
by a Beneficiary in agricultural activities which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Regulation Manual;
          (pp) "Pilot Executive Committee" means the committee
to be established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.03 (d)
of this Agreement;
2.   Section 2.02 (c) is amended to read as follows:
     "(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project:
     (i) and the Credit, open and maintain in dollars a special
     deposit account in its Central Bank or a commercial bank
     acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions
     satisfactory to the Association including appropriate
     protection against set off, seizure or attachment; and
     (ii) and the Swiss Contribution, open and maintain in
     dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank or
     a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms
     and conditions acceptable to the Association including
     appropriate protection against set off, seizure or
     attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the
     Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
Page  3
     provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
3.   Section 3.01 (a) is hereby amended by deleting the word
'and' at the beginning of the eleventh line and inserting after
"MARENA" in the twelfth line, after the word "MARENA" the
following '; and (ix) Part C of the Project, through MOF, with
the assistance of the Financial Intermediaries and NFIs';
4.   Section 3.01 is hereby amended by incorporating new
paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and (k) to read as follows:
          "(g) The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C of
the Project relend part of the proceeds allocated for Part C of
the Project to Financial Intermediaries under Participation
Agreements all in accordance with the procedures, term and
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and the
Credit Regulation Manual.
          (h)  The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part C of
the Project, make available part of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated for Part C of the Project to Financial Intermediaries
under Intermediary Agreements all in accordance with the
procedures, term and conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement and the Credit Regulation Manual.
          (i)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Participation Agreements, Intermediary Agreements and Subloan
Agreements, to which it is a party, in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and shall cause the
Financial Intermediary to exercise such rights in respect of
the NFI Financing Agreements. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement,
Intermediary Agreement or Subloan Agreement to which it is a
party, or any provision thereof.
          (j)  The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, Subloans shall be made in
accordance with the procedure and on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement and
the Credit Regulation Manual.
          (k)  The Borrower shall carry out, and cause to be
carried out, Part C of the Project in accordance with the
Credit Regulation Manual. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, waive
or fail to enforce the Credit Regulation Manual or any
provision thereof."
5.   Section 3.03 is hereby amended by adding a new paragraph
(d) to read as follows:
          (d)  a pilot executive committee to coordinate the
implementation of Part C of the Project and with staffing,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
6.   Schedule 1:  (a) The table in paragraph 1 is hereby
amended to read as per Attachment 1 to this letter.
          (b)  Paragraph 2 (f) is amended to read as follows:
               "(f)  the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs"
               means the cost of: (i) rent and office
               maintenance; salaries and per diem; and fuel
               and vehicle maintenance for: (A) the PCU; (B)
               INTA's and INRA's coordinating units; and (C)
               INRA's titling activities; and (ii) rent and
               expenses related to the operation of small
               rural offices of the Financial Intermediaries
               and/or NFIs.
Page  4
          (c)  Paragraph 3 is hereby amended to delete the word
     "and" at the end of paragraph (g) and to incorporate a new
     paragraph (i) to read as follows:
          "(i) under Part C of the Project unless the
respective Subloan has been made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement."
7.   Schedule 2 is hereby amended by incorporating a new Part
C of the Project to read as follows:
"Part C:  Rural Financial Development
1.   Provision of Sub-loans for Investment Projects.
2.   A program of technical assistance for:
     (a)  Financial Intermediaries to develop and implement
innovative operational technologies in the provision of
financial services to small farmers; and
     (b)  NFIs to strengthen their administrative, accounting,
management information and internal control systems.
3.   A program of training for:
     (a)  managers of Financial Intermediaries to carry out
field work directly with small farmers and to supervise and
audit small rural banking offices; and
     (b)  NFI staff in the processing of loan applications and
investment projects, screening, monitoring and enforcing of
loans, and promoting and developing saving and deposit
services.
4.   Operation of the Pilot Executive Committee."
8.   Schedule 3 is hereby amended by (a) deleting '$2,300,000'
in paragraph 2 of Part D and substituting '$3,000,000'
therefor; (b) deleting "$500,000" in paragraph 3 of Part D and
substituting "$1,000,000" therefor; and (c) deleting
'$1,000,000' in paragraph 3 of Part D and substituting
'$1,500,000' therefor.
9.   A new Schedule 7 is incorporated to read as per Attachment
2 to this letter.
     Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing
amendment by signing this letter in the space provided and
returning it to us. This amendment shall be executed in two
counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original.
     The amendment shall become effective upon (i) receipt by
the Association of one fully executed original of this letter;
(ii) receipt by the Association of evidence, satisfactory to
the Association, that the Pilot Executive Committee has been
duly established with staffing, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) receipt by the
Association of evidence, satisfactory to the Association,
showing that the Credit Regulation Manual has been approved by
the Borrower.
                             Very truly yours,
                            By: Michael Baxter
                             Country Director
                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  5
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By:    Emilio Pereira Alegria
       (Authorized Representative)
Date:  December 18, 1995
ATTACHMENT I (was done in columns, please see master)
ATTACHMENT  II
                              SCHEDULE 7
Part A:    Terms and Conditions of Participation Loans,
           Intermediary Accounts, and NFI Financing Loans
1.   Participation Loans
     The Financial Intermediary shall pay interest on the
Participation Loan at a rate not lower than the average rate on
one year of certificates of deposit.
2.   Intermediary Accounts
     The Borrower shall pay to the Financial Intermediary a fee
for the management of the Intermediary Account which proceeds
are to be relent to Beneficiaries in the name and on behalf of
the Borrower.
3.   NFI Financing Loans
     The NFI shall pay interest on the NFI Financing Loan at a
rate to be agreed between the parties to the NFI Financing
Agreement provided, however, that such interest rate shall not
be lower than the rate paid by Financial Intermediaries for
Participation Loans plus three percentage points.
Part B:    Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.   Each Subloan shall be made only for an Investment Project
appraised by, as the case may be the Financial Intermediary or
the NFI.
2.   Subloans shall be denominated, disbursed and repaid in
Cordobas and the amount of principal and interest shall be
adjusted as per the dollar value published by the Central Bank
weekly.
3.   Subloans shall be made for a term of up to one year and
repayable in accordance with the cash flow characteristics of
the respective Investment Project.
4.   Subloans shall bear interest rates to be agreed between
the parties to the respective Subloan Agreement provided,
however, that such interest rate shall not be less than 12% per
year on the principal amount adjusted as per the dollar value
published by the Central Bank weekly.
5.   The maximum aggregate amount that any one Beneficiary may
borrow for a Subloan or Subloans shall be the equivalent of
$450.
6.   Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower,
Financial Intermediary or NFI, as the case may be, shall
obtain, by written contract (Subloan Agreement) with the
respective Beneficiary, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and the Borrower, Financial
Page  6
Intermediary or NFI, as the case may be, in case of any
Subloan, the right to:
     (a)  require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and agricultural
practices and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that (i) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in
the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such
goods, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower, Financial Intermediary or NFI, as the case may be,
shall reasonable request relating to the foregoing and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
     (e)  suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the respective
Subloan Agreement.
