Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16480
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
EARTHQUAKE SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2047-NEP)
April 9, 1997
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency = Nepalese Rupee (NR)
At Appraisal: US$1.00 =26.5
At Completion: US$1.00 = 56.5
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS
BPEP        Basic and Primary Education Project
ESRP        Earthquake Schools Rehabilitationl Project
HMG         His Majesty's Government
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MHPP        Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MTR         Mid-term Review
NR          Nepalese Rupee
SOE         Statement of Expense
SRU         School Rehabilitationi Unit
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:    :    Mieko Nishimizu
Director           :    Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief     :    Richard Skolnik
Staff Member       :    Brajesh Panth



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
EARTHQUAKE SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2047-NEP)
Table of Contents
Page
Preface .............................................. i
Evaluation Summary .............................................. ii
PART I: Project hnplementation Assessment
A.  Statement of Project Objectives .............................................. 1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives .............................................. 2
C.  Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation ..............................................                 4
D.  Project Sustainability ..............................................                                        7
E.  Bank Performance .............................................. 7
F.  Borrower Performance ..............................................                                          8
G.  Assessment of Outcome .............................................. 9
H.  Lessons Learned ...................................................... 11
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3. Project Timetable .15
Table 4.   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5. Studies Included in the Project .16
Table 6A.  Project Costs .............................................. 16
Table 6B.  Project Financing ..............................................                                     16
Table 7.    Status of Legal Covenants .............................................. 17
Table 8.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................   18
Table 9.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                         18
Table 10.   Bank Resources: Missions .............................................. 18
Appendices
Appendix A. The ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C. Organizational Chart
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
EARTHQUAKE SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2047-NEP)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Earthquake Schools
Rehabilitation Project in Nepal, for which Credit No. 2047-NEP in the amount of SDR 17.6
million (US$22.8 million equivalent) was approved on June 27, 1989 and made effective on
December 11, 1989.
The original closing date was February 28, 1993. The project was, however, granted three
one-year extensions upon the request of His Majesty's Government (HMG), in view of the initial
delays incurred, marked improvement in project performance, high level of local demand,
magnitude of ongoing procurement, and benefits accruing to many school-age children. Final
disbursement took place on June 5, 1996, at which time SDR 1.52 million was canceled. SDR
16.1 million, or 91.4% of the Credit, was disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Brajesh Panth of the Bank's Field Office in Nepal, with
assistance from Mark Schlagel of the Population and Human Resources Operations Division,
South Asia Country Department II.  The ICR was reviewed by Richard Skolnik, Chief,
Population and Human Resources Operations Division, South Asia Country Department II and
Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor, South Asia Country Department II.
The preparation of this ICR began during the November 1995 supervision mission. It is
based on material in the project files, field visits, and interviews/discussions with beneficiaries,
project staff, Government officials and Bank staff. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and execution. Comments
were received from the Borrower on drafts of this report and taken into account in its final
version.
The cooperation and assistance of His Majesty's Government is gratefully acknowledged.



I



- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
EARTHQUAKE SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2047-NEP)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    This project was developed to assist His Majesty's Government (HMG) with the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of more than 2,300 schools that were either destroyed or
seriously damaged, following a serious earthquake which struck parts of eastern and
central Nepal on August 21, 1988. The large-scale reconstruction effort, never before
tried in Nepal, required the development of a very basic, low-cost school building design
that would be quick to construct, and able to withstand seismic activity of similar force
(or higher as necessary in this zone) in the future.
Project Objectives
2.    The project had two main objectives: (a) to provide immediate assistance to HMG
in support of its program to reconstruct/rehabilitate about 2,350 schools (over 13,000
classrooms) in the earthquake-affected areas of the Eastern and Central Development
Regions of Nepal; and (b) to introduce earthquake-resistant design features into
reconstructed school buildings and significantly improve the durability of these facilities.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project developed its capacity early on in planning, prototype testing and
other start-up activities. Much careful thought went into staffing, staff training, logistics,
communications, financial control and building design; and a set of standard procedures
under a decentralized management structure was tested, piloted and perfected that
allowed the project to undertake large-scale construction over a large, often difficult
geographic area. The early momentum of the project could not, however, translate into
speedy implementation for several important reasons, necessitating three one-year closing
date extensions. The project was also restructured in FY95, to limit activities to 13
difficult hill and remote mountain districts that were lagging behind considerably in
implementation.
4.    The extension period experienced markedly improved implementation progress
for several reasons. First, the project relied, after some refinement, on the use of a basic
shell steel frame structure made from standard, easily identifiable and interchangeable



- iii -
materials, consisting of structural members and corrugated galvanized iron sheets for
roofing manufactured at the factory. This greatly facilitated storage, porterage and
construction time (frame and roof erection and masonry infill to sill level in about 21
days),  simplified maintenance and greatly reduced the need for intensive on-site
supervision, without compromising on quality. The substantial design improvements
made over time also significantly reduced the weight of the structural members, making
transport possible even to the remote mountain districts. Second, as part of the project
implementation strategy, most staff were hired on a contract basis and deployed to
districts under a decentralized management structure which evolved over time. This
provided adequate flexibility and contributed generally to high field staff morale and low
turnover. Finally, political and local demand for classrooms increased sharply in latter
years, as people became more aware of the modality of the project and as communities
began to focus attention and resources away from the completed task of rebuilding homes
to the next priority of reconstructing schools.
5.    The reconstruction objective of the project was achieved, with considerable
progress made during the last three years of project extension. The project was able to
construct over 15,300 classrooms -- 15% more than the original numerical target.
Although communities were expected to complete construction beyond the initial basic
shell structure (i.e., a design which included steel roofing, in-built window/door frames,
and 'filler' walls to window sill level) with their own resources, primary schools,
particularly in poorer communities, had difficulty raising resources immediately, taking
up to three or four years to finalize construction. Project Unit estimates indicate that by
project completion one-third of construction was fully completed, including doors and
windows, one-third was completed up to the lintel level, but lacking doors, windows and
glass/shutters, and one-third was completed up to the initial basic shell sill level. The
percentage of fully constructed classrooms was much higher in the hill and mountain
districts, where full enclosure is critical due to adverse weather conditions. In the low-
lying Terai districts, however, classrooms have been able to be utilized after completion
of the basic shell structure. While final construction by communities has been slower
than anticipated, it is estimated that about 85% of classrooms had classes running by
project completion. Since the cost involved in the final stage of construction is modest, it
is expected that communities will gradually achieve full completion as they are able to
mobilize additional resources.
Summary of Findings, Operations and Key Lessons Learned
6.    The project was successful in terms of engineering, managerial and transport
logistics design. However, for the sake of speed and expediency in the emergency
situation that prevailed, a compromise was considered necessary and a uniform
architectural design was adopted across all ecological zones. The design was not optimal
for either very cold or hot climate zones, or areas where population density was either
very high (Terai region) or very low (high mountain regions). Effective collaboration
between the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning (MHPP, the implementing
ministry) and the Ministry of Education (MOE, the ministry responsible for pedagogical



- iv -
innovations and for creating a positive learning environment) would probably have
resulted in greater emphasis on a more flexible design approach and a higher degree of
community mobilization for construction completion beyond the basic shell structure
provided by the project.
7.    During project preparation, a survey was taken and a "master list" developed to
identify those schools affected by the Earthquake which would be eligible for project
assistance. The bulk of assistance -- about 75 percent -- eventually went to these
schools.  As might be expected, the master list had less relevance to many local
authorities the further the project extended beyond the actual date of the earthquake.
There was also sentiment -- likely justifiable -- that master list omissions had occurred
during the initial survey and that many non-listed schools were equally deserving, as
physical conditions were generally no better than those of listed schools. Nonetheless,
project restructuring in FY95 improved overall list compliance.
8.    The Bank's involvement with this project was appropriate and expeditious in
initial response (4.5 months from start to approval), as the need was clear and the
borrower's commitment well-articulated. The gross overall achievement demonstrates
that the high degree of replicable standard elements in project design allowed the desired
comprehensive coverage, especially in difficult areas. Greater emphasis on social
communication, to improve community knowledge of the project, and stronger emphasis
on inter-ministerial collaboration at the project design stage might have produced better
results in terms of community preparation and local funding for the final stage of
enclosure of the basic shell provision.
9.    Borrower performance was generally satisfactory.  However, the emergency
approach adopted created powerful momentum that resulted in an emphasis on technical
expedience that led technical staff to complete basic shell structures and move on to new
construction, rather than risk the disruption that the introduction of design variants
optimally suited for local climatic conditions and classroom size would have entailed.
Effective coordination with MOE and the Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP)
proved very difficult to establish despite various attempts, although MOE was
represented on the ESRP Project Board.
10.   Sustainability of this project is considered likely once the schools are fully
integrated into the MOE/BPEP school mapping framework, which, in addition to
maximizing optimal use of classrooms will help rationalize school construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance issues. During the preparation of the second phase of
BPEP, MOE has indicated that it will prioritize its construction program by emphasizing
rehabilitation before undertaking new construction. This approach is likely to ensure
optimal utilization of existing classrooms, including ESRP- assisted classrooms.
11.   The fact that the project was able to construct over 65 percent of the classrooms
during the extension period indicates that this high momentum was possible because the



project had been able to substantially refine its modality during the first three years of
project implementation.
Key Lessons Learned
12.   The project was successful at designing and disseminating a standardized basic
shell design over time. The use during construction of standard, light-weight portable
structural materials, under the guidance of competent technical staff, obviated the demand
for prolonged on-site technical supervision and the major management burden this would
entail in Nepal, permitted construction in remote areas requiring porterage of all
materials, reduced costs and construction time, and ensured a certain level of quality.
However, projects like this one which are implemented principally on a technical
emergency footing carry the risk that certain worthwhile innovations will be overlooked.
A case in point was the reluctance of the project to incorporate variant architectural
designs to suit local climates. A longer initial extension period and acceptance by IDA
and HMG of the risk of possible delays in implementation might have yielded higher
overall benefits in this regard. Nonetheless, given the short-term nature of the extensions
granted and the largely unmet construction targets which still existed at the end of the
original project period, the incorporation of design variants may well have introduced a
level of complexity too unpredictable for an emergency operation.
13.   The ESRP model of staff hiring on a contract basis is particularly well suited
when regular government employees are not motivated or capable of taking large tasks of
a temporary nature involving protracted field work. Staff deployment followed by
intensive training and logistics support, supported by a decentralized management
structure were key factors.  However, this needs to be complemented by realistic and
consistent staff allowances, in order to keep morale high and turnover low.
14.   While community participation is critical in an activity such as school
construction, it is important to avoid applying uniform expectations across all groups. Of
equal importance is the need to assign realistic values to different types of community
contribution and to recognize that there are likely to be wide variations in any program of
this nature.
15.   The project involved construction and rehabilitation of a large magnitude and
geographic coverage hitherto untried in Nepal. This required community mobilization
and a relatively complex organizational structure to manage procurement and distribution
of construction materials and construction. Of critical importance is understanding the
time it takes for communities to comprehend the project benefits that accrue to them.
Once communities began to fully realize these benefits, the pressure and demand for such
assistance rose sharply and implementation accelerated.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
EARTHQUAKE SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2047-NEP)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement of Project Objectives
1.    Project Background. On August 21, 1988 an earthquake measuring 6.7 on the
Richter scale struck parts of eastern and central Nepal, killing over 720 persons and
causing widespread damage, estimated at that time at NRs. 4.2 billion (US$170 million),
to housing, schools, hospitals, public buildings roads and bridges. More than 2,300
schools were either destroyed or seriously damaged, and some districts reportedly lost
almost all of their schools. The large scale of destruction deprived some 400,000 school
children of access to regular classroom accommodations.
2.    After providing immediate relief in the form of medical treatment, financial
compensation and materials for shelter, His Majesty's Government (HMG) of Nepal
turned its attention to rehabilitating housing and school structures through assistance from
IDA. IDA was approached by HMG and school rehabilitation was initiated under the
Earthquake Emergency Schools Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit 2047-NEP) after an
initial effort to quickly mobilize funds from other multilateral and bilateral agencies
showed limited success.
3.    The likelihood of severe structural damage following an earthquake has always
been high in Nepal, given that traditional construction methods are largely of low quality.
Following the August 1988 earthquake, it was necessary to construct quickly several
thousand classrooms, to provide children with access to basic education facilities. This
required the development of a building design that could be constructed quickly and
economically on a scale never before tried in Nepal, and that could withstand similar
seismic forces (and higher as necessary in this zone) in the future. The project was
launched under the leadership of the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning (MHPP),
with high spirit and commitment from HMG and IDA.
4.    Main Objectives:  The main objectives of the project were to: (a) provide
immediate assistance to HMG in support of its program to reconstruct/rehabilitate about
2,350 schools (over 13,000 classrooms) in the earthquake-affected areas of the Eastern
and Central Development Regions (29 districts including 13 difficult hill and remote
mountain districts) of Nepal; and (b) introduce earthquake-resistant design features into
reconstructed school buildings and significantly improve the durability of these facilities.



- 2 -
These objectives were based on a survey conducted during the project preparation phase
to identify schools that were affected by the Earthquake. The schools on this list were
eligible for project assistance and were called the master list schools.
5.   The project became effective on December 11, 1989. A comprehensive planning,
organization and staffing phase was successfully carried out that included the pilot testing
of school designs, construction procedures and manpower skills development. However,
the expected implementation targets could not be sustained, as the project suffered
considerable lags for about two and a half years before picking up again. The major
problems included supply problems caused by the Nepal-India trade and transit dispute of
1988/89, severe and arbitrary budget cutbacks by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and a
contracts "freeze" imposed by the Government (following the political upheavals of
April/May 1990) and a Government policy decision of late 1990 requiring foreign bidders
to have local agents that ran counter to IDA procurement guidelines. In view of the
initial delays incurred, the marked improvement in project performance, the growing high
level of local demand, the magnitude of ongoing procurement and the benefits accruing to
many school-age children of Nepal, the project was granted three one-year extensions
upon HMG requests. With these extensions, the project was able to achieve construction
of just over 15,300 classrooms, representing 2,200 (15%) more than the original
numerical target.
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    By the original closing date of February 28, 1993, the project had achieved less
than 35% of the original numerical target for classroom construction (Table 1), leaving a
substantial amount of work still incomplete. However, despite several implementation
constraints as noted above, the project staff by this stage had demonstrated a capacity to
carry out the planned construction. It was apparent that by extending the credit closing
date, it would be possible to sustain the momentum, as many of the earlier hurdles had
been overcome and the project had begun to demonstrate marked improvement. The
extensions did allow the project to make a substantial achievement in all project districts
in general and in hill and mountain districts in particular.



- 3 -
Table 1: Summary of Achievement /L
(Number of Classrooms)
Original                            Actual Achievement
Target  I
Original Period              Extension Period         Grand
I  l     (12/89 - 2/93)                  (3/93-2/96)            Total
|_______ |Primary   Second.    Total    Primary   Second.    Total
Difficult      6.960      934       740       1,674     3,854     2,582     6,436      8,110
Remote    r
Mountain
Districts
Low-Lying      6.394      1,316     1,658     2,974     2,084     2,158     4,242      7,216
(Terai)                I
Districts             l
Total /2       3-354     2,250      2,398     4,648     5,938     4,740     10,678    15,326
/1   All figures based on project records. As part of project restructuring in FY95, it was agreed with HMG that the
project would focus during the last 18 months of implementation only on the 13 difficult hill and remote mountain
districts, in order to avoid overlaps with construction initiated under the Basic and Primary Education Project (CR
2357-NEP) and recognizing that completion targets had already been substantially achieved in the lower-lying Terai
districts.
/2 Following project restructuring in FY95, the original target was revised upward, to 15,578 classrooms (7,789
blocks), to account for some deserving but unlisted schools and to adjust, as needed, the number of blocks originally
allocated to listed schools, which in some cases had been set unrealistically low. Overall list compliance improved
considerably following restructuring, with continued emphasis directed at assisting the listed schools.
7.      The reconstruction objective of the project has been largely achieved, as reflected
in Table I. Much of this was done during the extension period. The project was able to
construct over 15,300 classrooms -- 15% more than the original numerical target.
Although communities were expected to complete construction beyond the initial "sill
level" of construction (i.e., basic shell structure with steel skeleton and roofing, in-built
window/door frames, and 'filler' walls to window sill level) with their own resources,
many schools, particularly primary schools in poorer communities, had difficulty raising
resources immediately, taking on average three to four years to finalize construction.
8.     Project Unit estimates  indicate  that by  project completion  one-third  of
construction was fully completed, including doors and windows, one-third was completed
up to the lintel level, but lacking doors, windows and glass/shutters, and one-third was
completed up to the initial basic shell sill level. The percentage of fully constructed
classrooms was much higher in the 13 difficult hill and remote mountain districts, where
full enclosure was critical due to adverse weather conditions. In the low-lying Terai
districts, however, classrooms have been able to be utilized soon after completion of the
basic shell structure. While final construction by communities has been slower than
anticipated, it is estimated that about 85% of classrooms had classes running by project
completion.   Since the cost involved in the final stage of construction  is modest
(approximately US$100 per classroom), it is expected that communities will gradually
achieve full completion as they are able to mobilize additional resources.



-4 -
9.     The two-classroom  basic shell design, conforming to the Indian code of practice
for Zone V seismic prone areas (considering a seismic intensity of 7 to 8 on the Richter
Scale) appears to have successfully met the Project's second objective, as attested by the
fact that ESRP-assisted schools were unaffected by floods in the Sarlahi district in 1992
and a tornado in the Morang and Jhapa districts in 1996, even though many non-ESRP
schools were severely damaged. In both instances, the quality of construction was widely
acknowledged by concerned authorities and communities. The project also won a United
Nations Habitat Award for its contribution to the rehabilitation effort.
10.    Besides achieving its two stated objectives, the project was able during execution
to improve the overall design of construction materials and to reduce overall weight, from
2,920 kg. at the initial pilot stage to 1,100 kg. (Table II). This greatly facilitated the
transportation of materials to the hill and mountain districts. Local manufacturers were
very competitive and were successful in winning the bulk (about 75%) of contracts
awarded (Table III).
Table II: Improvement in Construction Design
Design/Year (NFY)           Type of Structural Members   Weight Excl. Roofing Sheets
Original Design (89/90)     Twin-column/ pipe section       2920 kg
First Revision (90/91)      Single post/ pipe section       2235 kg
Second Revision (91/92)     Half post/ pipe section         2081 kg
Third Revision (92/93)      Channel section/ Red Oxide       1100 kg
Fourth Revision (93/94)     Channel section/ Zinc Oxide      1100 kg
Table III: Procurement: Quantity, Cost and Type
FY          No. of Two-    Tender mode     Average Cost Per Unit  Award by Domestic/
Classroom                     in NRsg              International
Blocks
Procured
1988/89              41       Local shopping          n.a.        all domestic
1989/90             363       LCB                     n.a.        all domestic
1990/91             430       LCB                   75,506         all domestic
1991/92            1,650      LCB                  124,307         all domestic
1992/93             275       LCB                  107,067         all domestic
1992/93            1,600      ICB                   93,825         D = 900; I = 700
1993/94            2,000      ICB                  130,089         D = 1,200; I = 800
1994/95            1,430      ICB                  103,441         D = 1,035; I = 395
Totals             7,789                           105,706 /I
D = domestic manufacturer and I = manufacturer outside of Nepal
/1 About US$940 per classroom.
C.    Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
11.    The project developed its capacity early on as planning, prototype testing and
other start-up activities were initiated with prefinancing from the Primary Education
Project (Cr. 1463-NEP). The School Rehabilitation Unit (SRU), established immediately



- 5 -
after appraisal, gave much careful thought to the administration of the project in terms of
staffing, staff training, logistics, communications, financial control and building design,
which were all essential pre-requisites for this complex construction undertaking. This
was followed by strengthening monitoring capacity and staffing core PIU personnel.
Procurement delivery/stockpiling of materials for 750 classrooms was efficiently
undertaken and construction involving up to 150 communities was carried out relatively
smoothly, with acceptable levels of community involvement.
12.   A construction effort of this magnitude was untried before in Nepal. It required
creating an appropriate structure (see Appendix C), as the implementing ministry did not
have the capacity to undertake such a large-scale operation over such a wide geographic
area. The project contracted one engineer and an average of six overseers/suboverseers
per district, set up depots and sub-depots at strategic locations to ensure speedy
distribution of construction materials, created transportation mechanisms from the
manufacturers to depots through trucks and from depots to schools through porters, and
managed the procurement of construction materials through LCB and ICB. The project
contracted a national consultant (structural engineer) for the design work, and undertook
several in-service training workshops in project management/administration, quality
construction and community participation for technical staff, local masons and
communities. Much of the staff training and considerable assistance to the management
and monitoring effort were made possible through technical assistance provided by
UNDP and managed by a chief technical advisor. The size and complexity of the project
required establishing a set of standard procedures under a decentralized management
structure which was tested, piloted and perfected to construct the basic shell structure.
13.   The initial momentum  of the project could  not translate  into  speedy
implementation due to the problems stated earlier, and the project ultimately required
three one-year extensions, as it was not possible to make up the cumulative delays from
the early period. During the third year, the implementation effort improved markedly,
resulting in the speedy delivery of classrooms and excellent progress in construction
work.
14.   Whereas implementation priority had initially been given to the populous Terai
districts (where the logistics and deployment process was less complex), the project was
restructured in FY95 to limit its activities exclusively to the 13 hill and mountain
districts, where construction progress was still lagging behind considerably.  This
geographical focus resulted in considerable progress by project end, aided in large part by
several factors. First, the project relied after some refinement on the use of a basic shell
steel frame structure made from standard, easily identifiable and interchangeable
materials, consisting of structural members and corrugated galvanized iron sheets for
roofing manufactured at the factory. This greatly facilitated storage, porterage and
construction time (frame and roof erection and masonry infill to sill level in about 21
days), simplified maintenance and greatly reduced the need for intensive on-site
supervision, without compromising on quality.  In addition, the substantial design
improvements made over time reduced the weight of the structural members, making



- 6 -
transport by porters possible even to the remote mountain districts. Second, as part of
the project implementation strategy, most staff were hired on a contract basis with field
allowances and deployed to districts under a decentralized management structure which
evolved over time. The project also trained a cadre of artisans from project districts in
assembly of the basic shell structure who were contracted as required on a per job basis.
This provided adequate flexibility and contributed generally to high field staff morale and
low turnover. Each district had an engineer responsible for all the construction work in
that district. The contract approach provided the SRU with great flexibility in the use and
mix of staff. Finally, the political and local demand for classrooms increased sharply in
latter years, as people became more aware of the modality of the project and as
communities began to focus attention and resources away from the completed task of
rebuilding homes to the next priority of reconstructing schools.
15.   Community Participation. One of the positive features in ESRP design was the
involvement of communities in school construction and management under the technical
guidance of the project. Although this was not a new concept in Nepal, this approach
further strengthened the roles of communities that have traditionally assumed the
responsibility of school construction from their own resources. A school reconstruction
committee at each school was constituted by the communities with whom the project
entered into a contract. This committee not only managed construction, it also arranged
for labor for porterage of construction materials and construction; and local materials for
foundation, walls, floors, door and window shutters, plastering, painting and furniture.
The project provided steel frames, roof sheets, window and door frames, reinforcement
and cement. Community participation averaged around 30% of the total value of
construction in a completed two classroom block.
16.   The tradition of community participation continues to play a critical role in school
construction in Nepal, where contractors are scarce and expensive. This feature may be
diminishing in urban settings, where the opportunity cost of voluntary labor is relatively
higher than in rural hills or mountains. However, even where participation is likely, it
cannot be ensured across all groups. Primary schools were generally found to have
difficulty in assuming this responsibility because they were less endowed with resources
and had to rely almost exclusively on government grants or contributions from
communities. Primary schools that largely serve poorer communities with very limited
resources tend to face severe resource constraints. It is important to avoid putting an
unnecessary financial burden on such schools and communities in the process of
requiring community participation. In the light of initial feedback on rates of completion
by communities and after considerable deliberation lasting nearly two years, due
primarily to inadequate information on deserving schools and budgetary delays, the
project authorities provided a grant of NRs. 10,000-20,000 (US$177-354) per two-
classroom block (around 5 - 10% of the total cost of fully complete blocks), during the
latter half of FY96 to the listed primary schools that had been unable to complete the
final stage of wall construction beyond the basic shell sill level. This marginal support
generated additional contributions from communities and allowed many schools to
complete construction.



- 7 -
17.   In addition to head teachers, school management committees and local politicians,
credit for mobilizing community support goes to project field staff, particularly engineers
and overseers, who operated not only as technical staff in construction but also as prime
motivators and negotiators throughout the entire process. Although the engineers and
overseers had to work in extremely difficult terrain and political conditions, they were
instrumental in bringing various leaders and opposing groups to a consensus. A low staff
turnover allowed the technical staff to use their accumulated knowledge to constantly
improve their work in the field.
D.   Project Sustainability
18.   The project was implemented by a technical ministry, but all ESRP schools, being
public schools, will have to be integrated into MOE/BPEP's school mapping framework.
Although maintenance requirements will initially be minimal since these structures are
new and of reasonable quality, it is critical to integrate the ESRP facilities into the
maintenance training program of BPEP, for which considerable background work has
been done under BPEP. Since construction was done with community participation, it is
essential to maintain this support from communities to make the maintenance program
sustainable.
19.   Another form of sustainability can come by rationalizing the BPEP construction
program, where current and future projects are active in ESRP-assisted districts, to
support community completion efforts. By the nature of the emergency basic shell
design, up to one third of ESRP classrooms may still have had walling incomplete
beyond the sill level at project closure. By providing marginal grant support during the
last year of the project, most incomplete blocks are now likely to be quickly completed
by communities. This will maximize utility of the investment already made under ESRP
and will allow a wider coverage of the expanding classroom construction program under
BPEP.
20.   Finally, it is also important to encourage the use of local materials that are
commonly used by communities. Motivation of communities to use simpler finishing
inputs such as bamboo in-fill, mud mortar, etc., led in various instances to expeditious
construction and probably simplified maintenance requirements, since communities are
more familiar with these inputs. Since the basic shell structure is strong enough to last
for up to 50 years, the use of local materials for the in-fill work would not necessarily
lead to a serious compromise on overall quality and durability.
E.    Bank Performance
21.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory with respect to project assessment,
preparation assistance, appraisal and supervision. Bank involvement in this emergency
project was appropriate and expeditious in initial response -- 4.5 months from start to
approval -- as the need was clear and the Borrower's commitment well articulated.



-8 -
22.   The project was well designed and supported by UNDP-funded technical
assistance, which covered staff training, management guidance and monitoring. As a
result, IDA supervision missions were more focused and devoted to construction quality
and implementation arrangements that were critical to successful implementation.
23.   Supervision was managed from headquarters throughout the first five years of the
project, with ongoing side-support increasing over time from the Nepal field office.
During the last two years of the project, primary supervision responsibility was delegated
to the field office. Throughout supervision, the Bank provided suggestions in terms of
the effectiveness of the Borrower's supervision and delivery mechanisms that helped to
increase the overall efficiency of the project.
24.   When implementation progress failed to meet original expectations, and it became
evident that the project would not be able to fully complete construction as expected
within the original period, IDA supported HMG's request to extend the project. Three
extensions were possible due to IDA commitment. This support, necessary to sustain the
strong capacity developed by the project team, paid off well in terms of overall
construction achievement, particularly in the remote mountain districts. Since most
classrooms could be utilized soon after the completion up to the basic shell structure,
project inputs proved critical in terms of reconstructing many of the damaged schools
fairly quickly and providing safer classrooms to many school children.
25.   With hindsight, had the project been granted at the outset a longer extension,
linked to an MTR and restructuring, the outcome might well have been a more positive
Borrower reaction to the inclusion of design variants. The project was restructured in
FY95, recognizing the fact that (i) many district construction targets were substantially
completed in the lower-lying Terai districts; (ii) a potential for duplication of efforts
between BPEP (which started in July 1992) and ESRP existed if both projects were to
operate in the same districts; and, (iii) primary schools were experiencing financial
difficulties in completing construction beyond the basic project provision. The
restructuring allowed substantial construction achievement in the 13 hill and mountain
districts that had lagged behind, greater involvement of District Education Committees in
obtaining MOE endorsement for some non-listed schools, and a higher rate of community
completion of classrooms, through provision of modest grant support to listed primary
schools that had been unable after several years to complete construction.
F.    Borrower Performance
26.   Overall, borrower performance was satisfactory, although better physical progress
would have been possible with greater inter-ministerial coordination. Although a high
level inter-ministerial board chaired by the MHPP Minister was effective in resolving
many implementation issues relating to procurement, distribution and project
management, there were two shortfalls. Eirst, the project was technically driven, as the
staff were more interested in completing basic shell structures and moving on to new
construction sites than they were in monitoring the final completion of schools by



- 9 -
communities. The remuneration for technical staff in the field was also reduced at project
mid-course, after a fairly reasonable field allowance of 60% of basic salary was replaced
with a completion incentive, averaging two-thirds the earlier amount. This adversely
affected the morale of staff and was a disincentive to site visits. After the UNDP-
financed technical assistance program was completed, the project had inadequate funds
budgeted for monitoring and almost no vehicles. Despite IDA's urging, the Government
did not approve the procurement of vehicles and made only modest adjustment in the
field allowance.
27.   Second, coordination with MOE and BPEP was not effectively established,
despite repeated efforts from IDA and representation of MOE on the project board. In
districts where ESRP blocks had already been allocated and constructed, a closer
coordination would have allowed BPEP to update its school mapping and enabled a more
efficient merging of the two programs. Being a purely technical ministry, the MHPP was
less successful in mobilizing the people in education, such as district education officers
and teachers. More systematic execution of final community inputs above the sill level
might have been possible with a closer coordination with district education offices, as the
SRU was already burdened with completing the minimum basic shell structure in 29
districts.
28.   A  positive feature was the functional decentralized management structure
established by the Borrower, which was the key to overall success. ESRP was effective
in the deployment of technical staff to the field, but less so in the case of administrative
staff, particularly at headquarters in Kathmandu. Despite repeated concerns expressed by
several IDA supervision missions regarding administrative overstaffing, little correction
was made. Except for some key personnel, the central office was much less effective than
the field offices. However, the central office management was generally very supportive
of field staff, which allowed the field offices to be effective in their operation.
G.   Assessment Of Outcome
29.   In retrospect, some issues have emerged. While the project was successful in
terms of engineering, managerial and transport logistics design, it might have benefited
by adapting the basic design module to introduce one or more variants. The low output in
the first two years encouraged the emergency psychology to prevail throughout the
project life even though the project was eventually extended for three years.
30.   For the sake of speed and as an emergency response, a compromise was made
from the outset in adoption of a uniform design approach. This resulted in a structure
which is probably less than optimal for either very cold or hot climate zones of Nepal.
The given size of the classrooms might have been appropriate in areas where population
density was medium (mid-hills), whereas it might have been less so in areas where
population density was either very high (Terai region) or very low (high mountain
regions). However, it would have been necessary to address this issue at an early stage in
the project cycle, at a time when project performance was poor and the risk of loss of



- 10-
confidence in the project by HMG and IDA was high. A more effective MHPP-MOE
collaboration would also have allowed the project better access to MOE officials and
teachers for community mobilization towards rapid completion beyond the sill level.
31.   Although the bulk of the assistance (75%) eventually went to master list schools,
the distribution could have been more tightly controlled. The structure and staffing was
adequate in general, but the discipline required in decision making to reach as many listed
schools as agreed upon was less optimal. During the first 3.5 years of the project, the
blocks mostly went to listed schools. Although around 10 percent deviation to non-listed
schools was expected and accepted, the project went beyond this limit. IDA missions
repeatedly underscored the need to adhere to the master list, but this proved an elusive
task amidst tremendous community and political pressures for inclusion of non-listed
schools. However, project restructuring and strong emphasis by IDA in FY95 ensured
improved list compliance.
32.   Several factors accounted for the inclusion in the project of non-listed schools.
First, as the project duration lengthened, the original master list had less relevance, with
some listed schools over time either mobilizing other non-project resources to complete
construction or, in the wake of growing population pressure, re-prioritizing limited school
resources to support secondary level expansion activities (e.g., hiring additional teachers,
putting down deposits, etc.) -- a need still not recognized and funded by the government.
For some other listed schools, non-participation in the project was more simply the result
of school/local resource limitations. Accordingly, by the last stage of the project, funds
that might have gone to some of these non-participating listed schools were directed to
other deserving non-listed schools.
33.   Second, many communities, governrnent officials and project staff, including
district engineers, argued that the original survey did not include all the deserving
schools, citing examples of geographic pockets that were omitted during the initial
survey.  This point appears largely justifiable, particularly given that the physical
conditions of nearly all of the non-listed schools funded under the project were generally
found to be no better than those of listed schools.
34.   Finally, given the strong implementation capacity developed by the project, the
Government discussed with the IDA mission during 1994 the strategy to fully complete
the original project and to utilize an uncommitted balance of about US$6 million to
support the major ongoing thrust in basic education financed by IDA, ADB and other
donors. Since the project was able to construct 15% more than the original numerical
target, it was natural that a higher percentage of schools not on the master list received
project assistance.
35.   Overall, some important aspects may have been less optimal, but given that
closing date extensions were granted one year at a time as per the Bank policy, the ESRP
was most reluctant to accept the burden of additional delays required to make substantial



- 11 -
changes in terms of facility designs and in the modus operandi of a structure which was
belatedly becoming highly successful in achieving its original numerical targets.
H.   Lessons Learned
36.   Technical Design/Simplicity.  The project was successful at designing and
disseminating a basic, highly repetitive emergency formula for construction that was later
modified through innovations in engineering design, without adding complexity. Based
on experience gained, the project was able to improve the quality of pre-fabricated steel
materials and reduce weight substantially, under the guidance of competent technical
staff. This obviated the demand for prolonged on-site technical supervision and the
major management burden this would entail in Nepal, permitted construction in remote
areas requiring porterage of all materials, and reduced costs and construction time.
37.   While the project achieved its physical targets due in large measure to its basic
simple formulation, the introduction of design variants to deal more effectively with
geographic differences in climate and class size might have improved the final product.
However, this may well have introduced a level of complexity too unpredictable for an
emergency operation. Given that IDA treated extensions on a single year basis, the
reluctance of project officials to vary a productive implementation formula is
understandable. Willingness on the part of IDA to accept a longer initial extension may
have set the stage for the effective introduction for one or more design variants by HMG.
38.   Decentralized Management and Staffing. The project's development of a lean,
but fragile decentralized management structure, able to handle the technical and
administrative interface between a single basic physical structure and execution at the
community level, was a key factor for success. Intensive training and logistics support to
staff was an integral part of this process. Most district-based engineers, hired on a
contract basis, were successful not only because they were technically competent, but
because they stayed with the project, were motivated due to the authority and flexibility
given to them, had minimal interference from the center and were able to relate to a wide
range of people, from district-based government officials to people in different
communities. This indicates that in Nepal, if regular government employees are not
motivated or capable of undertaking complex temporary assignments involving
protracted field work, it is possible to successfully utilize competent, contracted staff,
supported by a decentralized management structure. Contracting must, however, be
complemented by rewarding and consistent staff allowances, to ensure high morale and
low turnover.
39.   Community Participation. Once communities began to fully realize the benefits
accruing to them, the pressure and demand for assistance from the project rose sharply
and implementation accelerated. The project relied on the use of project staff and radio
announcements to raise community awareness, however, a targeted social communication
component, developed during the initial phase of implementation, could have enhanced



- 12 -
the extent of participation and helped communities understand at an earlier stage their
role in and features of project implementation.
40.   While community participation is critical in an activity such as school
construction in Nepal, it is important to avoid applying uniform expectations across all
groups, since not all communities may be able or sufficiently interested in participation.
This requires a more flexible approach. When strategies, such as the reimbursement
policy for transportation costs, are applied to enhance community participation, it is
essential to study the implications and make necessary adjustments for optimal results.
Of equal importance is the need to assign realistic values to different types of community
contribution and to recognize that there are likely to be wide variations in any program of
this nature. It may be equally important and more sustainable to encourage communities
to accept easily maintained local materials, such as bamboo in-fill, mud mortar, etc. as
viable alternatives to more durable modern materials which may be difficult to obtain and
maintain in some areas.
41.   Technical Assistance. When the Government is reluctant to use credit resources
for technical assistance, an IDA project is likely to perform better when complemented by
a grant component. This project was primarily funded by IDA, but supporting technical
assistance from UNDP, in the form of a chief technical advisor for the first four years of
the project, two vehicles and supporting funds provided valuable flexibility to the project
in key areas such as staff training, management guidance and monitoring.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives      Substantial           Partial           Negligible            Not
Applicable
Macro policies
Sector Policies                                                                              W E
Financial objectives                                                                         W
Institutional development        |   |       
Physical objectives               W x
Poverty reduction                |                                                         [Z
Gender issues                                                                                W
Other social objectives          Ex
Environmental objectives          W 7 
Public sector management                                                                     W E
Private sector management                                                                    W



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
B.  Project sustainability         Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
F                  O                  W
C.  Bank performance               Highly          Satisfactory         Deficient
satisfactory
Assessment                                        E                 L
Preparation assistance          I                  W                  I
Appraisal                                          EII
Supervision                                      F xE
D.  Borrower performance           Highly          Satisfactory         Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                      W xI
Implementation                   E                 O
Covenant Compliance             LI                 Ex
Operation (if applicable)         I                EI 
E.  Assessment of outcome          Highly          Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory          Highly
Satisfactory                                            Unsatisfactory
OI                 EI                 OI Lx



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title /I                         Purpose                         Year         Status
of
Approval
Primary                 The first IDA credit for the primary education sector  1984    Credit
Education Project       in Nepal. Aimed at improving the quality of primary            Closed
(CR 1463-NEP)           education, strengthening the administrative and               6/30/92
technical capacity of the sector and developing non-
formal strategies for out-of-school children and              ICR 2/93
women in particular.
Basic and               This follow up project to the Primary Education      1992      Credit
Primary Education       Project is aimed at improving the quality of primary           Scheduled
Project                 education, increasing access to primary schooling             to Close
(CR 2357-NEP)           and improving the capacity of the primary sector.              12/31/99
/l Preceding operations
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                                Date (Actual)
Assessment Mission                                January 25, 1989
Initial EPS                                       March 14, 1989
Depart Appraisal Mission                          April 04, 1989
Start Credit Negotiations                         May 11, 1989
Board Approval                                    June 27, 1989
Credit Signing                                    August 08, 1989
Credit Effectiveness                              December 11, 1989
Original Closing Date                             February 28, 1993
Actual Credit Closing Date                        February 29, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual /1
(US$ millions)
FY90       FY91       FY92        FY93       FY94       FY95       FY96 /1
SAR Appraisal           7.00      15.00      22.80           -          -           -
Estimate
Actual                     -       2.91        4.83       6.04      10.02       18.87      23.20
Actual as Percentage       0         19         21          27         44         83         102
of Estimate
/1 Final disbursement took place on June 5, 1996. at which time SDR 1.52 million was canceled. In SDR terms, SDR 16.1
million, or 91.4% of the Credit, was disbursed.



- 16-
Table 5: Studies Included in the Project
Title                     Status                      ImpactCs
SPerformance Evaluation Report of   Completed in      Analyzed project objectives and made
School Reconstruction              FY94               recommendations on ways to improve
Program                                               implementation8.
2  Monitoring Report on School        Completed in       Provided a complete status on project
Construction Progress              FY95               achievements made until the UNDP
0technical assistance was completed.
Table 6A: Project Costs
OriginSe  Estimate (-.S$m) /      Actual Disbursement (US$m) 1I
Source               Local    Foreign        Total       Local   Foreign       Total /2
Civil Works                                             7.80                                3.80|
Building Materials,                                    18.40                               19.69
Equipment and Vehicles a
Consultant's Services                                   0.10                                0.03 J
Project Admin.                                          1.20                                2.12F n
Salary/Allowancesl
Unallocated                                             2.70             A
Special Account - Cove                                 7                                   -0.16
Total                                                  30.20                               25.49
/I  Local/foreign breakdown not available.
/2  Represents both IDA and Borrower (HMG) contribution.  An undisbursed balance of US$2.19 million (SDR 1.52
cillion) was canceled effective June 5, 1996.
Table 6te : Project Financing
Original Estimate (aStm) er ictual (US$l) /1
Source              Local    Foreign         Total       Local   Foreign        Total
IDA                                                   22.80                                23.20
HMG & Local                                            7.40                                 2.29 l
Communities /_ 
Total                                                 30.20              ....              25.49 l
/I  Local/foreign breakdown not available.
/2  Actual figure represents only the HMG contribution. HMG and Local Communities originally estimated to
contribute US$3.7 million each, for a combined total of US$7.4 million. While actual disbursements for local
communities are not available, it is estimated that they were about 30% of the combined IDA/HMG costs for civil works
and building materials.



- 17 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Text              Cove-   Status  Original   Description of Covenant              Comments
Reference      nant              Fulfill
Class(es)         Date
CREDIT      Schedule 4 (1) 5          C                   Establish SRU headed by an        In compliance.
officer acceptable to IDA
Schedule 4 (2) 9          C       08/01/95   Carry out project in accordance    Includes the strat-
with semi-annual plans satisfac-   egy to complete the
tory to IDA updated on February  remaining work.
I and August I each year.
Schedule 4 (3)  10        C                  Selection, planning, design,      In compliance.
construction and maintenance of
works in accordance with stan-
dards and criteria satisfactory to
IDA.
Schedule 4 (4)  10        C                  Prepare and furnish to IDA by     In compliance.
October 15, 1989, a model
agreement with Town and Vil-
lage Panchayat. Enter into
agreements with communities
prior to starting construction
works.
Schedule 5     3          C                  Establishment and operation of a   In compliance.
(1-5)                                        Special Account for the project.
Status:     C      -    Complied with
CD     -    Compliance after delay
NC    -    Not complied with
SOON  -    Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP     -    Complied with partially
NYD   -    Not yet due
Covenant Class:
I      Accounts/audit
2      Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3      Flow and utilization of project funds
4      Counterpart funding
5      Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6      Environmental covenants
7      Involuntary resettlement
8      Indigenous people
9      Monitoring, review and reporting
10    Implementation
II     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12     Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13     Other



- 18 -
Table 8: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The ICR did not identify any deviation of substance from the relevant OMS.
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(staff weeks)
FYTotal        |   89         90         91        92        93        94         95        96        97      Total
Pre-Appraisal    11.75                                                                                        11.75
Negotiation        .78                                                                                          .78
Supervision        1.23     11.80     10.30      4.20      2.90      10.33     13.55      9.65                63.96
ICR               I_I                         I_I _                          I         I             4.40      4.40
Total            13.76      11.80     10.30      4.20      2.90      10.33     13.55      9.65       4.40     80.89
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of       Month/        Number of      Days in    Specialization     Performance Rating /2        Problems /3
Project Cycle      Year         Persons         Field     Represented /I
Imple-
nmentation     Dev. Object.
Assessment          1-2/89          2             27          A, CON
Mission                                                                                                               l
Appraisal           4/89            2             18          A, CON
Supervision 1       9/89            1              8             A                              1         PR
Supervision 2      2-3/90           1              9             A                              I         PR
Supervision 3      8-9/90           1             19             A                              1         AF, CL,
_________                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR, OS
Supervision 4      3-4/91           1             3 1            A                                        AF, CL,
|_ Supervision 6  |   3-4/93 |PR, OS
Supervision 5       3/92             1             6             A                              1         AF, CL,
_________                           __________                      ~~~~~~~~~~~PR,_OS
Supervision 6      3-4/93           2              5           A, SS                            I         AF, CL
OS, PM,
____________  ___________                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR,_SP
Supervision 7       1/94            2              9           A, SIS                           1         AF, CL,
OS, PM,
____________           ~SP
Supervision 8       9/94            2             12           CA, SS            S              S         CL, PM,
___________              ___________                     ~~~~~ ~~PR,_SP
Supervision 9     11-12/95          3             18         A, CE, SS           S              S         CL, PM,
Supervision 10      5/96            2              8           CA, SS            5              5         CL, PM,
SP
/1   A = architect, CA = consultant architect, CE  consultant educator, CON = consultant, SIS = senior implementation specialist, SS =
social sector specialist.
/2   Performance ratings for implementation did not commence until the eighth supervision mission. The performance ratings for
development objectives were based on a numbered system through the seventh mission; thereafter the lettered system was utilized. S =
satisfactory.
/3   Based upon a Form 590 rating of 2 or 3. AF = Availability of funds, CL = compliance with legal covenants, OS = overall status,
PM = project management performance, PR = procurement progress, SP = studies progress



Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
EARTHQUAKE SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2047-NEP)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Messrs. Brajesh Panth (IDA) and Sudarshan Tiwari (Consultant-Architect) carried
out a review of project implementation from May 23 to 31. The mission had discussions
with senior officials of the Ministry of Education (MOE), Ministry of Housing and
Physical Planning (MHPP), Ministry of Finance (MOF) and National Planning
Commission (NPC) and the Project Director of the Basic and Primary Education Project
(BPEP). The mission carried out a brief field visit (May 26-29) to Jhapa and Terathum
Districts.
2.    This Aide-Memoire is intended to provide a record of the principal observations
and points discussed by the mission and may not reflect IDA's official position which will
be confirmed in writing following the mission.
3.    Overview
3.1   The project was designed to: (a) provide urgently needed assistance to the
Government of Nepal to support its program to reconstruct/rehabilitate about 2,200
schools in the earthquake affected areas of the Eastern and Central Development Regions
of Nepal; and (b) introduce earthquake resistant design features into reconstructed school
buildings and to significantly improve the durability of these facilities. The project made
a promising start following effectiveness on December 11, 1989. A comprehensive
planning, organization and staffing phase was successfully carried out that included the
pilot testing of school designs, construction procedures and manpower skills
development. However, this could not be sustained and the project faced considerable
lags due to supply problems caused by the Nepal-India trade and transit dispute 1988/89,
severe budget restrictions and a contracts "freeze" imposed by Government following the
political upheavals of April/May 1990, and a Government policy decision of late 1990
requiring foreign bidders to have local agents ran counter to IDA procurement guidelines.
By the original closing date of February 28, 1993, the project had been able to construct
less than 55% of the original numerical target. In view of the initial delays incurred, the
marked improvement in project performance, the magnitude of ongoing procurement and
the benefits accruing to many school-age children of Nepal, the project was granted three
extensions upon HMG requests.  During the extended period the project not only
achieved the original numerical target, it went on to procure 1,100 more blocks (2,200
classrooms) utilizing currency savings. Much of this impressive achievement during the



Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
latter period was made in 13 mountain districts which are considered very difficult areas
of Nepal. Following are major issues pertaining to this project:
*  Project activities have been greatly hampered after the project closing date as
government counterpart funds of about Rs. 20 million could not be mobilized. MOF
has assured to provide adequate funds during the next fiscal year to allow completion
of remaining work during the first quarter of FY96/97.
*  For completion of remaining blocks and erection of some blocks that may remain
incomplete in the core districts, the NPC has advised exploring the possibility of
using other continuing projects to assume this responsibility as a special activity. The
MOF has indicated that it will be able to allocate funds for these activities in
FY96/97.
4.    Physical Progress
4.1    Overall Achievement: The overall construction achievement is satisfactory both in
the core and non-core districts. The project has successfully designed, procured, affected
transportation and supervised the erection and construction of blocks. The overall
distribution pattern shows that about 73% of the blocks went to master-list schools in
core districts. Much of the slow progress during the early period in the mountain districts
had to do with difficult terrain, and lack of community preparedness and awareness of
participatory construction management. It has been demonstrated that the engineering
design that was improved several times led to a reduction in the overall weight of the
structural members and made it possible to transport these materials even in remote and
physically difficult districts.
4.2   Completion of Classroom  Construction: As per the records updated through
March 15, 1996, out of 7,621 blocks distributed, 89% or 6,796 blocks had been
completed up to the sill level. Although communities were expected to fully complete the
construction beyond the sill level with their own resources, it has been observed that
schools, particularly primary schools in poorer communities, have had difficulty raising
resources immediately, but have taken, on average, three to four years to complete such
construction. The VDC/DDC grants generally tend to be directed to schools with higher
classes. As a result, blocks distributed to lower-secondary and secondary schools have
been completed comparatively faster.
4.3   Financial Assistance: In order to allow primary schools in poorer communities to
complete construction beyond the sill level, HMG and IDA had agreed to provide
financial assistance of about Rs. 10,000 per block with priority based on erection dates.
Although this amount was distributed very late due to budgetary and administrative
delays, over 500 blocks are expected to benefit from this assistance. The mission could
not obtain a detailed district-wise position, but the project is implementing the assistance
program in thirteen core districts. This assistance is expected to be fully executed by the
end of FY95/96. During the field visit in Terathum district, the mission noted that Tinjure



Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
Primary School in Firke, Sumnam VDC had been able to mobilize an additional
Rs.10,000 to complete the filler walls, mud-husk (locally known as leun) plaster on
outside, door and window shutter in one classroom and floor leveling. The mission was
informed that such initiatives were going on in different parts of the district. The mission
is pleased to note that when this strategy was agreed upon, it was expected that
communities would be activated in mobilizing additional resources to complete
construction.
4.4   Restructuring Effect: The restructuring of credit has allowed the project to make
substantive progress in 13 mountain/hill districts that were lagging behind considerably.
Whereas, only 1,509 blocks of the targeted 3,480 blocks could be distributed to the core
districts during the original 3.5 years of the project period, 2,242 more blocks have been
distributed in these districts during the extended period of the project, most of these
during the last two years of the project. This progress has complemented the overall need
for classroom constructior. in these 13 districts besides what the Basic and Primary
Education Project is doing in other 40 districts.
5.    Unit Cost and Cost Sharing
5.1   Transportation Cost: Due to transportation cost reimbursement formula of earlier
years, the schools between 5km and 30km from road-head suffered the most because of
large investment required to lift the blocks. As a result, such communities, mainly in
hill/mountain districts were slow in making full use of such blocks on time. The
transportation cost from road head to site has been fully paid by the project during the
current fiscal year, while other shares have remained the same as before. This has
facilitated greater achievement in far-off and remote schools where costs of transportation
were generally quite high.
5.2.  Cost Sharing: The supervision mission of November 1995 had calculated that the
effective community cost sharing, on average, amounted to 28.5% for all completed
blocks in the sample. Of the blocks completed to Phase I only, the average community
share was 22%. The difference has been caused by the variable cost of local materials
(schools using brick in cement mortar contribute more), walling specification opted and
manual transport. Since all transportation cost is being borne by the project in the current
FY, the share of community has. dropped to an average of 20%, with a range in the
sample between 16% to 27%. The lack of consideration of cost of water in community
contribution and also the community cost of sand being significantly higher than average
district rates in many sites, the burden to hill schools have been higher. Poor rural
communities in some school sites have contributed voluntary labor for site cutting. Most
schools have charged nominal fees from parents for construction support.
5.3   Procurement: An analysis of all procurement done under this project shows that
local manufacturers have been quite competitive winning most of the contracts. It also



Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
shows that the cost has remained somewhat same. The following table summarizes the
procurement over the project period:
Procurement Summary
FY        No. of Blocks  Tender mode Average
Procured                  Cost/Unit
NCRs@
1988/89    41           L. shopping  n.a.
1989/90    363          LCB          n.a.
1990/91    430          LCB          75,506
1991/92    1650         LCB          124,307
1992/93    275          LCB          107,066
1992/93    1600         ICB          93,825
1993/94    2000         ICB          130,089
1994/95    1250 + 180    ICB         103,441
1995/96          -                   -
6.    Field Observation
6.1   Management Structure: As noted in previous mission reports, the management at
the district level has been quite effective due to good leadership of district-based
engineers. Most of these engineers have been with the project for a fairly long time and
are thoroughly familiar with the technicalities of the project. They have been particularly
effective in involving concerned authorities at the district in expediting construction
activities. For example, only recently Bhojpur district was expected to face a major
problem as only about 30 blocks out of over 130 blocks distributed could be constructed.
But towards the end of the mission the district engineer of Bhojpur informed that he had
been able to construct over 100 blocks by mobilizing VDC funds in the form of loans as
project funds were very tight due to budget constraint. This level of management support
has not been possible at the central level. Monitoring has been rather weak. The mission
again noted that the tendency for over staffing, particularly at the administrative level,
persisted, although the staff size was reduced to 350 from 580 after the project closing
date. The mission noted that a small group of staff have continued to work very hard and
have provided strategic guidance and critical support in project implementation.
6.2   Supervision: The problems observed during earlier missions, such as inadequate
supervision in siting, leveling of ground vis-a-vis damp-proofing course and stonework
have persisted. Some of these issues could be addressed by the Basic and Primary
Education Project (BPEP) when a complete set of information is provided to
BPEP/MOE.



Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
6.3   Budget Constraint: Although HMG's recent policy of providing advances of 25%
of the annual budget to each project at the beginning of the fiscal year has been quite
effective, this project faced budgetary problems because the release of the budget was
tied with the decision about procuring additional materials for 500 blocks using the
savings of the project. Since this was not possible, the budget for the remaining period
got delayed by about 4.5 months. Although the project made efforts to achieve as much
as possible by the project closing date of February 29, 1996, some activities still
remained incomplete. The November, 1995 supervision mission had estimated that
government financial liability would amount to about Rs. 9 million, but this turned out to
be about Rs. 20 million because the progress had been slower than anticipated.
7.    Planned Completion Activities
7.1   Completion Strategy: The mission was informed by concerned authorities at MOF
and MHPP that the project will try to accomplish as much as possible with the available
resources through the end of this fiscal year. Although the MOF was unable to provide
the required Rs. 20 million to the project at this stage, it has assured that adequate funds
would be made available during the next fiscal year with the purpose of wrapping up all
remaining work during the first quarter of FY96/97. For completion of remaining blocks
and erection of some blocks that may remain incomplete in the core districts, the NPC
advised the mission of exploring the possibility of World Bank assisted projects to
assume this responsibility as a special activity.
7.2   Implementation Completion Report:  The mission was informed that the
borrower's comments for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be
provided to IDA by June 15, 1996. IDA will share the draft ICR with the Government by
July 21, 1996. The final copy of the ICR will be distributed to the government in August
1996.
7.3   Consultation with HMG Officials: During the meetings with senior government
officials, at NPC, MHPP and MOE, it was agreed that the project would prepare a list of
all schools that received assistance from this project and provide it to MOE to update
school mapping in BPEP. It was also agreed that the project would prepare a list of
technical staff (and administrative staff if necessary) and share it with NPC, MOE and
other relevant government organizations where such expertise/manpower is needed.
7.4   Video Filming: The video film is going through a final round of editing and
should be available in about two weeks.



Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
8.      Project Financing
8.1     Expenditures:  The project has disbursed over 90 percent of the project amount
against over hundred percent physical progress. The following table provides a summary
of the financial status of the project:
Summary of Financial Information
(In NRs.)
FY         Annual Budget                   Release                   Expenditure             Total
HMG           IDA           HMG            IDA           HMG           IDA
1989/    13,475,000   122,025,000      7,222,083    80,798,308    14,316,181    42,948,564    57,264,745
90    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1990/    15,163,000   175,193,000     15,110,775    174,949,825    33,808,927   101,426,782    135,235,709
9 1   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _ _ _                  _ _ _ _ _
1991/    50,019,888   148,946,750     49,563,796    147,767,060    44,509,477   134,625,273    179,134,750
1992/    32,787,000   305,732,000     27,584.156   257,905,968    25,746,807   237,323,216    263,070,023
93     _ _ _ _ _ _ __               _ _ _ _ _ _
1993/    19,030,000   370.832.500     17.946.961    361,397,730    26,683,340   340,593,027    367,276.367
94                                                              _ _ _ _ _ _
1994/    10,000,000   264.500.000     11,667,858   246,859,437    23,649,934   220,089,227    243,739,160
95
1995!    15,000,000    82.499,000     18,414,878    58,110,225    18,414,878    58,110,225    76,525,103
96    I__  _ _ _ __                                                            _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Total   155,474,8881 1,469.728,250    147,510,507  1,327,788,553   187,129,544 1,135,116,314  1,322,245,857
8.2     Auditing: The Project has submitted to IDA the unaudited report for FY94/95. It
is important to mention here that the accounting records maintained by the project have
been applauded by the SOE audit team of the Bank. The computerization of the
accounting records and stability of qualified accounting staff made the system highly
efficient.



Appendix B
Page 1 of 13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
EARTHQUAKE SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2047-NEP)
BORROWER'S REPORT ON COMPLETION OF IMPLEMENTATION
A. Background
Most schools in Nepal, especially primary schools, are built with resources contributed
by the local and usually poor communities. Use of poor quality construction materials and
outdated and sometimes improper building practices result in buildings that really do not cater to
the safety of its occupants. This, coupled with negligible or no maintenance means that when
natural calamities like earthquakes occur, such classrooms will be severely affected -
endangering the lives of the students inside. Thus it was fortunate, (if natural calamities can be
considered fortunate), that the earthquake of August 1988 struck in the early hours of that fateful
morning well before classes had started.
B. The Mandate
Soon after the earthquake, data compiled by the Relief Committees in each of the affected
districts of Eastern and Central Nepal showed that over 67000 homes had been damaged with
many being totally destroyed. Faced with this disaster, HMG had one clear mandate - restoration
of normal living conditions in earthquake affected areas through quick assistance in the work of
repair or reconstruction of what had existed before. Loans and technical advice were provided to
the eligible affected households through the Housing Loan Programme, implemented by the
newly established Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
(EAARRP) which was funded in the main by an IDA credit. This project organized a survey of
damage to school buildings in the earthquake affected areas. Evaluation of this survey showed
that over 13000 classrooms in more than 2100 schools had also been severely affected by the
earthquake and needed to be rebuilt! Thus, implementation of this school reconstruction effort
was initiated by the Schools Reconstruction Unit (SRU) which was additionally set up within the
EAARRP structure and which was mainly funded by another IDA credit (Credit 2047-NEP) of
17.6 million SDR.
THE SCHOOLS RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAMME
1.    The Tartget: Reconstruction of 13354 classrooms in 29 districts in 31/2 years.
2.    Eligible Schools: The schools eligible for assistance under this programme are only those
that sustained earthquake damage in 1988 and are listed as such. This list (by district) was



Appendix B
Page 2 of 13
prepared after analysis of school survey data of the affected districts for the extent of damage and
application of an uniform set of criteria to determine of the names of eligible schools and the
number of modular two-classroom blocks allocated to each.
3.    Institutional Capacity: In addition to the existing EAARRP structure, (with the SRU at
the central office, two semi-autonomous regional offices and 29 district offices) eleven storage
depots with necessary staffing were established at judiciously selected locations to facilitate
distribution of centrally procured materials to eligible schools of related districts. All offices
were provided their own budget. This method helped in making project activities highly
decentralised. Indeed, this decentralised approach was one of the key factors that contributed to
the success of the project. Except for a very small number of key posts held by permanent HMG
personnel, all other project staff were on project contract. To ensure that this temporary work
force took up and succeeded in completing this challenging task, incentives (in the form of
project allowances to all project staff and field allowances to district based staff) were provided
on top of the salaries and applicable remoteness allowances as per HMG rules.
4.    The Method: To ensure that beneficiary communities felt a sense of ownership for the
newly constructed classrooms, the project was designed to utilise local community participation
in the rebuilding effort. Keeping in view the emergency nature of the project, the urgent need to
restore the classrooms quickly, and the low financial capability of the communities (who already
had the burden of rebuilding their homes), a fast-track construction method was adopted in which
community contribution requirement would be kept minimal for the initial phase of construction.
This initial stage of construction targeted erection of an earthquake resistant steel skeleton (with
steel roofing, in-built door and window frames, and 'filler' walls to window sill level) which
could be put up quickly and be functional enough to allow classes to be conducted immediately
after erection. In the second stage of construction, the communities would complete the
construction with their own resources, at their own pace and to their own requirements.
Participation of affected communities in the construction effort was supplemented with
government assistance, through SRU, in the form of:
(i)   'imported' - i.e. locally unavailable construction materials (steel frame, cement,
reinforcement bars);
(ii)   subsidy for transportation/porterage of such 'imported' materials to the construction site;
(iii)  payment for skilled labour required in stage -1 construction;
(iv)   limited subsidy for local materials and unskilled labour provided by the community; and
(v)   technical advice.
5.    Steel Frame Design: The design developed, adopted and continuously refined by the
SRU (and successfully accepted by the beneficiary communities) is the result of considering
many options and taking into account the following parameters:



Appendix B
Page 3 of 13
(i)    very large numbers to be built within a short time-frame;
(ii)   ease and speed of construction ( frame and roof erection and masonry infill up to sill level
in 21 days);
(iii)   minimum community contribution specially for first stage of construction;
(iv)   ease of porterage (no component weighing more than 40 kg.);
(v)   minimise use of timber (by providing steel skeleton and steel door and window frames
and cement);
(vi)  strong and safe structure (earthquake resistant);
(vii)  simple erection and construction techniques that would reduce the need for sophisticated
training of local masons and be easily understood by beneficiaries (parts bolted together
to make skeleton);
(viii)  minimum site supervision time;
(ix)   minimum and simple maintenance;
(x)   easily identifiable components which can also be interchanged;
(xi)  easy to ensure quality control at fabrication plant; and
(xii)  non-perishable and easy to store.
6.    Determination and Implementation of Annual Targets:
(i)    After discussions with and approval by the National Planning Commission (NPC) and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) regarding the overall annual target and budget allocation for
each fiscal year (FY), annual targets for each affected district (i.e. the number of blocks to
be implemented in any certain fiscal year) was determined by the central office based on
the district's total construction target, its capability and the number of blocks remaining to
be implemented.
(ii)   Annual programme and budgetary allocation (under applicable budget headings such as
administrative costs, cement procurement costs, subsidies to schools, salaries and
allowances etc.) for each regional office, district and depot was made based on the annual
work target and this was transmitted to each office at the beginning of each FY.
(iii)   Upon receipt of the annual program and budget allocation, the district offices themselves
select the names of listed schools and the number of blocks to be allocated in that FY to
each of them based on district-wise conditions and priorities. The district offices also
procure their annual requirement of cement and reinforcement steel.
(iv)   At the same time, the central office estimates the number of blocks required at each
storage depot to fulfill needs for that FY and then initiates bid processes for procurement
(both LCB and ICB) of the required number of steel frames and roofing materials,
conducts bid evaluation and work awards to successful firms, organises inspection of
fabricated materials and their dispatch to project depots.



Appendix B
Page 4 of 13
7.    Construction. Supervision, Reporting And Monitoring:
(a)    At District Level: After their selection, eligible schools that will be catered to in a
particular FY are informed by the district office of their inclusion. They are also instructed to
start preparing for the construction by having the necessary land available and by collecting and
storing the required quantities of local materials (stone or brick for masonry work; sand and
aggregate for column footings, reinforced DPC and sill bands) which would be their contribution
for construction to sill level. Project technicians (overseers and sub-overseers) of each district are
allocated their work areas and construction sites. These technicians then visit the concerned
school and meet the school reconstruction committees (that represent the concerned community
of beneficiary schools), verify their preparedness for the construction and report the status to the
district engineer.
Consequently, the engineer enters into an agreement with the school reconstruction
committee spelling out the responsibilities of each party, the quantities of 'imported' materials
that will be provided by the project and the local inputs to be provided by the community,
subsidies the school will receive at the end of construction (up to stage 1 - i.e. sill level only as
per project mandate) . He then requisitions for the required steelworks from the most convenient
storage depot.
The reconstruction committee then mobilises community participation required for
porterage of steelworks from the relevant storage depot and cement/reinforcement steel from the
district office to the construction site. Once all required materials are at site, masons that have
been trained in steelworks erection and basic construction techniques accompany the project
technician to start the stage I construction (to sill level). Unskilled labour is provided by the
concerned community.
The project technician rotates his work sites such that he is present to supervise critical
phases of stage 1 construction - such as building layout, concreting works etc. Reports on
construction status at each site are submitted to the district engineer. Problems, if any, are
normally resolved locally or at the district level - sometimes with the help of local administrative
and other HMG offices.
Once construction is complete, the project technician reports the same to the district
engineer and prepares documents calculating the total subsidies to be given (based on quantities
stipulated in the agreement, the official distance of school site from district headquarters and
concerned storage depots, official district rates for labour and local materials etc.). The engineer
in turn pays the total subsidy amount into the school's bank account and formally hands over the
constructed building to the reconstruction committee.
(b)    At Regional Level. The district office sends copies of regular monthly reports to the
concerned regional office and the central office. An unit of the regional office makes regular
visits to monitor work progress in districts under its jurisdiction and also work as a trouble -
shooting team. Any problems that cannot be resolved at the district level are sorted out by the



Appendix B
Page 5 of 13
regional office or, if solution of such matters require higher authority or policy
amendments/formulations, routed to the central office.
The regional office also has a small quota of 'reserve' blocks which supplement district-
wise allocations based on additional demand received during the course of any FY (after
determination of annual targets by central office). Such blocks are allocated both to eligible
schools (whose needs are found to be greater than the number of blocks determined in the master
list of eligible schools) as well as other non-listed schools due to the fact that these schools were
missed in the original survey and as such eligible for inclusion in the master list, or due to
demand from local/political sources. Implementation of these blocks is undertaken by the
concerned districts, with funds being provided by the regional office from its annual budget
allocation under the heading of 'reserve' blocks. From FY 94/95, the regional office has also been
involved in the construction of new blocks and completion of those which remained incomplete,
in the 16 "non-core " districts, where closure of project offices and programmes were ceased
from that FY.
The regional office is also responsible for monitoring and coordinating material
distribution from depots under its jurisdiction to concerned districts. It mobilises project trucks to
transport materials to most convenient roadheads in order to facilitate onward porterage to school
sites and to transfer materials from one depot to another to make up transient shortfalls or to
fulfill additional requirements.
(c)     At Depot Level: The central office informs each depot of the number of blocks to be
received by it out of the total quantity being procured and about the annual block allocations for
districts serviced by it. Materials received from fabrication firms are systematically stored and
distributed to communities based on requisition forms given by district engineers of concerned
districts. Similarly, based on requests from district offices and the regional office, it uses the
project trucks to transport materials to roadheads deemed to be convenient for concerned schools
or to other depots. Its stock reports (receipts and outflow) are regularly sent to the regional office
and central office.
(d)   At Central Level: Data from all reports received from the district, regional and depot
offices are collated and compiled by the monitoring and evaluation section of the central office.
Problems and matters for action are circulated to the concerned units. Need for additional policy
formulation or policy amendments for expediting project progress are identified and necessary
steps taken to obtain the decisions at appropriate levels. Progress - both physical and financial, is
closely monitored. Expenses incurred by all project offices are centralised and submitted for
audit before reimbursement claims are submitted to IDA. Annual plan and budgetary estimate for
ensuing FY is determined based on overall project progress.
8.     Project Progress and Achievements: (See Tables I & II):
(a)    Physical Progress: The project started its operations in 1989/90 with a modest target of
375 blocks. Progress was negligible during this first and the next year for the following reasons:



Appendix B
Page 6 of 13
(i)    An embargo by India severely affected supplies of basic raw materials necessary for the
fabrication of steel frames. Procurement was thus greatly hampered.
(ii)   Community response was poor as most of the affected communities were busy building
their own homes first and thus they could not contribute funds and resources necessary
for the construction.
(iii)   Knowledge of the project methodology and the fact that it did not place a great burden on
concerned communities had not yet percolated down to the people.
(iv)   Budgetary allocations were usually delayed, delaying start of construction.
(v)   Political unrest and consequent political changes in the country.
Due to the above reasons, the project was able to implement only 334 blocks in 1989/90
and 503 blocks in 1990/91. However, from 1991/92, implementation rate improved to well over
1500 blocks annually. The reasons for this satisfactory rate of implementation were:
(i)    Use of a decentralised approach which gave freedom and limited authority to district
engineers and heads of zonal offices enabling them to choose the best course of action for
maximum target fulfillment.
(ii)   Experience gained and utilised by project field technicians in successfully mobilising
public participation. Participation was more forthcoming because most communities had
been able to complete the highest priority task of rebuilding their homes and thus they
now could afford to turn their attention and resources towards the next important task of
rebuilding their schools.
(iii)   Communities were also better informed about facilities provided by the project and thus
attracted by the acceptable co-financing method used which allowed the steel skeleton to
be put up with their relatively small contribution. Demand for blocks increased greatly
with this knowledge.
(iv)   Continuous introduction of improvements in project methodology to make the
reconstruction task easier and thus acceptable for the affected communities. (such as
changes in the steel frame design, the use of project trucks to transport materials to
convenient roadheads which decreased overall porterage distance to school sites,
establishment of temporary depots at key locations in remote mountainous districts to
minimise porterage distance and finally, full subsidy for porterage etc.)
(v)   Streamlined and efficient logistics system to ensure that there was a steady inflow of
blocks to storage depots during the construction season.
(vi)   A sense of commitment by the project staff actively involved in the implementation effort
and the team spirit that prevailed among them.
(vii)  Continuity of project technical staff with negligible turnover.
During the course of the project, the original target of 6677 two classroom blocks was
revised upward to 7789 blocks due to the following reasons:



Appendix B
Page 7 of 13
(i)    Many affected schools had been missed in the original survey conducted by EAARRP
and most of these found eligible for inclusion in the reconstruction programme.
(ii)   To enable greater coverage, the criteria applied to initial survey results allocated the bare
minimum number of blocks to eligible schools. However, for many eligible schools, this
number was found to be less than the actual requirement and thus for such schools the
original block allocation was enhanced.
(iii) Many blocks were distributed to non-listed schools on the basis of demands from local
political groups.
As a result, out of the initial target of 6677 blocks, a significant number of blocks were
diverted to such schools reducing the amount available for the originally listed ones. To make up
this shortfall, IDA approved an upward revision in the original target subject to preparation of a
detailed record of blocks distributed to such non-listed schools and the subsequent endorsement
by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MoEC) of such blocks as well as any other such
blocks that may be distributed in the future. After discussions between MHPP and MoEC,
official endorsement of the required record prepared by SRU (of 1513 blocks in non-listed
schools implemented by it) was received. A method for endorsement by the concerned District
Education Office (DEO), of blocks which could be distributed later (to any other non-listed
schools) was discussed and agreed upon. At the same time, it was also agreed that the SRU
would:
(i)   disengage itself from certain "non-core" terai districts where the Basic and Primary
Education Project (being implemented by MoEC) was operative;
(ii)   close its offices and its implementation programme in other "non-core" project districts
where substantial progress had been achieved (70% or more of the target number of
blocks distributed); and
(iii) concentrate its activities in the remaining 13 "core" districts in the hilly and mountainous
regions where project progress needed expediting.
Due to the justified reasons for the cumulative delays incurred in project implementation
and the need to ensure substantial completion of the reconstruction work remaining in the core
districts, IDA extended the project period, for the third and final time, to 29th February 1996.
(b)   Financial Progress and Cost Benefit: In comparison to its significant success in physical
implementation (116% of the initial target achieved) and despite time overrun of about 3.5 years,
great economy was achieved in project expenditure with I million SDR or approximately 6% of
the credit amount remaining unspent at the end of the project. (Necessary requests have been sent
to IDA for formal cancellation of this amount). This economy was the result of continuous
design improvements in the steelworks resulting in significant weight reduction of components
without sacrificing strength and durability.



Appendix B
Page 8 of 13
In addition, the reimbursement status of this project has been exemplary - and probably
can boast of as being one of the best of among IDA funded projects in Nepal.
(c)   Other Achievements
(i)    Training: With the help of funds provided through UNCHS grant, project engineers gave
regular on-the job training to about 240 field technicians (overseers and sub-overseers) on
such subjects as building layout, concreting work, correct brick and stone laying, steel
frame erection and the laying of roofing sheets. In turn, these technicians trained the
local, semi-skilled masons that were employed in schools construction on the basics of
good construction practices specially in brickwork, stone laying and on the correct
method of laying roofing sheets. About 1000 local masons in the 29 project districts
benefited from this training which, upon completion of project activities, they are
expected to apply to the construction of better and safer homes in their localities. UJNCHS
also provided two 4WD vehicles to support the monitoring and training activities.
(ii)   Product development and technology transfer: Excepting a small amount that was
procured through local competitive bidding, the bulk of the components of the steel
skeleton used in the construction were procured through international bidding procedures
conducted according to IDA guidelines. Nepali firms, benefiting from the margin of
preference applicable for domestic bidders, succeeded in securing many of the contracts.
To be able to mass produce components that would pass the acceptance tests laid down
by the project, these local firms had to learn and incorporate improved production and
quality control techniques in their otherwise old fashioned methods. Steel fabrication
industry in Nepal has come more of age because of this. Similarly, because of the
project's search for and use of improved roofing materials, Nepali manufacturers
introduced colour coated galvanised steel roofing materials which were used in the
construction of about 4000 blocks. This kind of roofing material, though thinner and
lighter than traditional CGI sheets, has a longer life, is almost glare free and is definitely
more attractive. After their widespread use by this project, these sheets are now very
popular with communities in villages and towns alike.
(iii)   HABITAT Award : The efforts and achievements of the project staff in the initial
Housing Rehabilitation Project were recognised by UNCHS/Habitat which awarded the
project its Scroll of Honour in 1993.
9.    Lessons Learnt And Implications for Future Projects:
The success of any project is measured by its ability to fulfill its targets within a pre-
decided time and budget. Overlooking the delay in project completion due to numerous and
unforeseen circumstances, the schools reconstruction project can be said to be successful -
specially in comparasion to other IDA funded projects. But it was not all smooth sailing. There
were many aspects of project design and implementation methodology that needed to be
continually rethought and modified based on external conditions and events.



Appendix B
Page 9 of 13
(a)    Project Design. The project was well conceptualised and well designed to achieve its
objectives. However, the project period of 31/2 years was not adequate considering the fact that
another emergency rehabilitation project was running concurrently in the same project area,
drawing on the resources of the same communities. As a result, community response and thus
project progress was understandably slow in the initial years. Projects in which construction is
the main aspect must be allowed enough startup time to achieve adequate momentum.
Extraneous factors, which affect Nepal in more ways than other neighbouring countries and the
state of political flux the country is currently in, also tend to delay projects. Thus, it is felt that
determination of future project periods should also consider these aspects and should be more
realistic.
Beneficiary communities were expected to achieve completion of schools blocks (beyond
sill level) using their own resources and at their own pace. However, it has been found that many
schools, and especially primary schools, which were allocated materials in the early years of the
project, still have not managed to complete their part of construction. This inability is largely the
result of insufficient funds. With suggestions from IDA and appropriate approvals, a provision of
additional completion grant (up to NRs. 10,000) to such incomplete primary schools has now
been made. However, it is felt that this possibility of some schools remaining incomplete and the
method of addressing this issue could have been considered initially in the project design -
allowing early identification of such schools and early remedy of the situation.
(b)   Decentralisation and Autonomy.  The geographical nature of the affected districts,
inherent difficulties and delays in communication and the need to continually monitor and
sustain activities over a widespread area demanded a semi-decentralised approach for project
operations. This approach, together with a limited degree of autonomy given to the regional and
district offices, was a distinctive feature of the project design. The overall success of the project
demonstrated that for projects where community participation is an integral part and where the
area of operations is widespread, this approach is the right one.
(c)    Staffing and Personnel:  A well thought out project structure must be manned and
supported by a sufficient number of the right kind of personnel. Being an government project, it
was necessary that a senior HMG technical officer of the concerned ministry with planning,
managerial and administrative skills, knowledge and experience of government regulations as
well as be appointed as the Director. MHPP ensured that this was always the case. Being a
predominantly technical project, it was also necessary to support the director with capable and
dedicated technical staff for central, regional and district office operations backed up by the
necessary administrative support. The project made the right choice of selecting and employing
non-HMG engineers, technicians and administrative staff for this purpose. Provision of a certain
amount of authority and autonomy to regional chiefs and district engineers, supplemented by
incentives in the form of allowances totalling 93% of the basic pay-scale for field based staff and
33% for others (in addition to other applicable HMG allowances) boosted their motivation and
commitment. The assurance of employment for the full project period also helped morale.
Regular progress seminars attended by district engineers and other key personnel were organised



Appendix B
Page 10 of 13
to help maintain regular contact between them. In such seminars experiences were shared, valid
suggestions for improvements in project implementation methods and policy offered and
accepted, problems discussed and optimal solutions arrived at, helped develop a sense of unity
and a strong team spirit among the project staff. This was enhanced by regular
monitoring/troubleshooting visits by key personnel from central and regional offices.
(d)   Project Boards and the Needfor Fast Policy Decisions: The Project Central Committee
initially comprised of many cabinet members including ministers from MHPP, MoEC, MOF,
Ministry of Local Development, Home Ministry and key members of the National Planning
Commission, project Director etc. This high powered committee was chaired by the Minister,
MHPP and was instrumental in making important policy decisions necessary to expedite project
progress. However, as the project picked up speed, it became necessary to restructure the
committee by replacing all but the Minister, MHPP with the secretaries of corresponding
ministries to allow meetings to take place more frequently and decisions to be made as soon as
the need arose. Existence of such a high-powered committee responsible for discussing and
deciding key policy matters and issues brought up by the project with no other intermediate
boards and/or committees ensured that project operations were streamlined. Further, with all
other authority being vested to the project chief, there was minimal or no external imposition
which could affect progress functioning.
(e)   Support from HMG Institutions, Sustainability.  Due to the structuring of the project
central committee, various ministries and HMG institutions were directly or indirectly associated
with its activities and involved in ensuring successful project implementation. Because of this,
the project received their continued cooperation and support resulting in satisfactory target
achievement and completion. Continued involvement of these agencies ( and the concerned
communities), even after project completion, will ensure its sustainability.
(f)   Priorities andfacilities must remain constant: The initial priority given to short duration
projects, especially those which contribute towards the development of infrastructure in Nepal,
must remain unaltered for the duration of the project. A case in point is the field allowance
(which was 60% of basic salary) that was given to the project's field based staff and which was
removed midway due to changes in policy. This removal meant that staff morale, and
consequently project progress, declined significantly just when it was reaching its maximum! A
sympathetic project management and the project central committee's approval of alternative
methods of providing incentives helped, to some extent, in remedying the situation.
(g)    Budget Release: Annual programmes were planned to optimise the construction season
which starts from around September each year. Delayed budgetary releases, specially in the
critical initial years of the project, delayed the start of material procurement to as late as
December and this meant that construction only started from February onwards. Changes in
policy and budget release mechanisms have now greatly reduced this problem. As a further step,
the government is currently considering the introduction of a rolling programme and budget
system which would prevent "freezing" of budgets - specially of development projects, at the end



Appendix B
Page 11 of 13
of each fiscal year. This would greatly help in allowing project activities to continue
uninterrupted.
(h)   Role of IDA: The understanding of project problems, as well as the timely advice and
support given by IDA was also instrumental in maintaining project momentum. Detailed
discussions with the frequent IDA missions helped identify possible problems, find optimal
solutions and expedite critical project activities. Such positive interaction between donor and
borrower is seen as a necessary ingredient for the success of future projects.
10.   Conclusion:
His Majesty's Government of Nepal has initiated many steps and policy decisions
towards the establishment and improvement of educational facilities. The achievements of this
project will contribute in a large way in supporting the government's goal of providing quality
education to the children of Nepal. Children will now be able to study in safe buildings that their
parents and guardians have helped to build. This has been possible with the support and
cooperation of all the government institutions that were directly or indirectly involved in the
project, the concern shown and the continual advice and guidance given by IDA, and the sincere
and committed efforts of the project staff.



EARTHQUAKE AFFECTED AREAS SCHOOLS RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
OVERALL BLOCK DISTRI-BUTION ANDCOSTUCIO    ST-ATUS-REPORT
CHART I                                         __________________________Progress Report upto  15 June '96
___________      ~~F/N  046/47 (89190  F/Y 047/48 (90/91)1 F/Y 048/49 (9i/92)    Fl  049/50 (92/93)                  F/N  050/51 (93/94)        FNV 051/52 (94195)    FIY 052/53 (959)                    TOTA
I.                                  0                            0                         0                                                                         00
6         0                                                                                                  ,                          ,n                                             
z  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ .~0-                                                               0                       2.6                   d
-     0      0             a0                                           -                            0
o,       01 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rv .,                                  2                        2 r                                           0                        0         2 
- ~~~~    15r    V  ~~~~~~~  ~ ~                    V        ~     ~      ~     ~                        V ~~!                       V                                     
o    o        c  oC   0 0        0 C 0             0      0CC         0      0     0  0          0     0  0    0 .          0             0    0      a 0    0   C  0                         
ISANKHUWA             362    4    4  0  0    4   10  10  0  01 101  45    45  0, 01  45    601  60, 0  01  60   110   108   21 01  93    86,  59   18  9  58   15    1i  21 12    0   3301 287  22   21  270
2 BHOJPUR              347 10   1000o    91010  0 0                   7    35    35 00    22    45    45  0  0    40   1-03    85 18101  83   1271  27 1001027    4   0    410    0 33421212 12    0 188
3 PAANCHTHAR           372   -0   0  0  0    0   11   11  0  0   11    50    50  0  0          50    67    57  0  0    67   102   100  21 01  99    81    79    2  0   78    6            1   0   5   0   317   308    4    5  305
4 TERATHUM              330  4  4 00  420 20 0 020  55  55 0055 606000  60 120 120 0101120 100  94  15 94 14   0140  0 373353 15  5 353
5 TAPLEJUNG            102    4    4  00    4   0    0  00            0    21    21 00    21    30    3000    30    45    45  001  44    23                      6    98    5    8 0    26    0 131   106   11 14   104
61KH-OTANG             325   .0    0  00 0<0   00   0   0    27    27 00    27    60    60  00    60   120   120  0  0   116    34    33    0   1  33  21    0    021    0   262   240   -0  22   236
7OKHALDHUNGA    208   :.0oo0  0..O0 00   0  44  42 02   41  64  6202   61 130 109 174   9561 831 14   70  70   0 301 2303290
8SINDHULI              247  101  0 0101  02222  0 022                      55    55 010    55    55    5500              53    93    91 20    91    65    65    00  65    3              3   00    3 303 301    2    0 299
9SOLUKHUMBU             115    21  2  01 0    2 o 0          0  0    0    28    28  0  0      25    56    56  00    52    38    38  0  0    37    62    54    5  3  471  010    0  0    0   186   178    5    3   166
10 RAMECHHAAP            335    91  9  00    9    3    30 0            3    60    60 00    60    60    6000               56    63    5300           43 1001  87  -4979 151  0                  14    0 310 292    5  13   250
i11SINDHUPALCHOK    245   101 10 0010  2121 0 021    46    46 00    46                                601  6000 T         60   108   106   20   10         731  67    5  164 181  91  90    9  336319  16    1  316
12 KAVRE                 236   29   29  0  0  29   17   17  0  0   17    33    33  0  0    33            40 14 01 0    401  80    78  20    72   1041  93   11  0   70 1616    9   1   6   319   296   22    I  26
IDOLAKH-A              256io10100010 2929 0 029   54  54 00  546   641010  641 83  83 00   83 61 60  01 604239   03 39 343339  0  4 339
SUBTOIITAL (Core)        348u   92   92  00  91 143 14                 140  *~3      1025                1    1 0  2        0    1     164       41          '2    4   6   86419=9 473                               411,   2 
14 SUNSARI               352 43 43 004368 68 0068109 1090 01095126 12600 126   1 3  13 00   13  18  18  00 1713   71 42   7 3903841 4  2 383
15 MORANG                230  41  4 1004195050 00  50                       81    81 00    81    82    8200    82                 2     2  00         2    1 5    15    00  1525  16    91010   29    2871  9    0 281
16 JHAPA                 348   13   1 1  2  0   1 1 19  19  0  0   1 764  -64  0  0             64    91    91  00    91   166   166  0  0   166    59    59    0  0  50    6              2   410    2  418   4121  6    0  401
17 DHANKuTTA             369  22   22  0  0  22   25   25  0  0   25    87    87  0  0          87    91    91  00    91   139   136   3  0   134           8      8   0  0   8    8       2    1  5    0   380   3711  4    5   367
iB IL-AM'                  0  0  0 00   00  00 0   0   3   3 00    3   7   700    7  23  23 00   23   0   0  010 0 00   00 0   33  331 0  0  33
19 SAPTARI               487- 22- 22  0  0  22  42  42  0  0  42   130   130  0  0   130   141   141  00   141   127   107 20  0   105    21    20    1 10   17  18    0   18  0    0   50 1   462   39    0  457
20 SIRAHA                394  291 26  3  0  26  401 39  1  0  351 1291 125  4  0 1251 135. 127  3  5   1241  25    23   1  1    23    12    1 1    1  0   1 1                         3   0    3  0    0   373   351   16    6. 344
21 UOAYAPUR              340  221 22  0  0  22   351 35  0  0  35    51    50  0  1 49    191  19  0  0    181 145   138  5  2   137                        0      0    0  0    0    2 0    2  0   0  274   264    7    3  261
22 SARLAHI                87    61  6  0  0    6   15   15  0  0   15    45    43  2  0         43   624    64   00    641   2          2  0  0       2      1     0    0   1   0   15    0  15  0    0   148   130   17    1  130
23 RAUTAHAT"                00        0000o      o     0    00a0          0     0   00 0    00               000           0    25    23  20    23          3      0    30    0    2 0    20    0    30    23    7    0    23
24 DHANUSHA              161    9    9 00    913  13  0 013                 55    55 00    55    74    73101  69.0                      000o          0     9      9    00    9    1 0    10    0  161 159    2    0 155
24 MAHOTTARI             108    5    5 00        515  15 0 015              47    47 00    47    67    67001  66    12                  4  17         4     3      0    03    0    7 0    70    0  150  138    8  10  137
26 LALITPUR              196    4    4  0  0   4  22  22  0  0  21    25    25  0  0            25    41    41  001  39    14           9   1  4      4     7      5   0  2    4    9      5   0  4    51 122   111    1   10   102
27 NUWAKOT               106   15   14 0 1  14    0   0  00Q    0    25    25 001  24    42    41   1  0    41    29    26  3  0    26    20    18    2  0   18  41  32    7  2  23   172   156   13    3   146
28 BARA                   32    8    8 00    613   3  00               3    23    23 00         211  24    2031 114    29   115122                    6    42    25  170  13    8 6    20    2   135    98 34    3    65
29 CHITWAN                  8< 0.000  0< i0    0 00                   0      8      8 00         8    16    14021  14  _0               0  00         0    18    18    00  15    2        0    20    0    44    40    2    2    37
30 MAKWANPUR-              0<  0A00 0~0Qo  0000   0la0 00    0   0   000   0  12   9 30   5  61  53  80 4615  5    4  4  88  67 17 455
31 KATHMANDU              26  2  2 00   2  9  9 00   9  36  36 00   36  37  3151   27   9   7 20    5  0  000   025  8  611  0 118  93 13 12  79
328IBHAKTAPUR             43    3    3  00    1   3    3  00           2    37    36 01    35    15    1401               114    0      0  00         0     2      0    20    0    2       0    20    0    62    56    4   2    52 
33 DHADING                 00         00000000,0 0  o                               00   0o             0     000          0      0l    000o          0    1           001           5 I 5s    00    5    161  16    0   0    16 
34 JAJARKOT- 0...                           0    0            0        0     0         0               0     0  00               10    10  0  0    10             a    0  0    0  i0      0 0 0         0     10     0    0    0    10t
RUKUM"'         0~~~ ~~ 0 a0  00    0~ ; 0      000         0     0      000          0     0     000           080   0              0     60  0   0            0        00*' o  0                       10l      0    0  60
51Lh. 1LALInon-core)  3151  24   13   b  II4 39  51 1   13I9!l9f    i2    41lti141  13"                                                         18     4*Tff    8                         8                                  
I    I TALN3343281 5  11 3251 5021 5011 11 0 4901 15081 14981 61 41 14791 17931 17681 13                                  1      198   16651981 201 1770  121049=28 . 3 :8 1s57- 139 8 0 15 73 728491911 6838                                    0 
*Earthquake affected distnict where reconstruction work was undertaken by Lutheran World Service initially.
Flood affected districts.



EARTHQUAKE AFFECTED AREAS SCHOOLS RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CHART 11
BLOCK DISTRIBUTION AND CONSTRUCTION  STATUS
S.                 "~~~~asIel                                                                Di5V5striuton s5tatu                                                                         COnlstrscthon status   :            Percentages             ML
No1     DISTRICT         ILost        46747       1      4~7/481II  M       48/49 Toa 9ML        I/50~Tta{M    5D/5511T4   LI ~52-  II                   52I/53~   1  Overall Total~s    Comp~ On- ItNot IHanded  ML distrib  Complee    Lv    Remn-
b      c     d       a                              bfa'100    eld'100  bid"100  (a-b)
A. CORE DISTRICTS:
ISANKHUWASABHA            382    41    01 4   10           01  101   39        61   451 491   11    60   881   221 110   80              6    8616         9    151   276    54   3301   2871   22           211    2701        76 2       87 0     636      86
2BHOJPUR                  347 10         01  10  10        0    tO    35       01   35137         8     45531   So0103 107              2012        0      4      41   252    82 334        212    122  __0          180      -72 6        63-5 75 4 95
3PAANCHTHAR               372    0l   .00611    _ 11    50                     01   50163         4     687   871   15   102   78        3    81   2       4   6     680    37317   30804                     5      305         75 3      97 2     863    92
4TEHRATHUM                330    41    0       4   20      0    20    55 _   0    551 56          4    60  1031   17   t20    64        16   100   6       6    14    330    43   373    353         15   _   5      353       1000        646      88 5      0
5TAPLEJUNG                102    4       0     A4 0        0     0)   16       5    211  15       IS    30    91   36    45    9        14    23   0       8      0      53    78   131    100       11      14      104        52 0       8069    40 5    49-
6KHOTANG                  325    0  __0             0      0      0    25      2    271 51        9    60   861   34   120   30          4    34  10    I11    21    202    60   262    240           a      22      236        62 2       91 6     77 1   123
7OKHALDHUNGA              208    0       0     0    0    .0      0    36       8    441 36       28    64   66       64   130   51       5    56   3       4      7    192   109   301    230       32       39      205        92 3       76 4     6368    16
SINDHULI                247 10    0-  -10 22             0,22        55      0    55 55          0    55.18        75    93158          7    650          3     3    218    851303        301       2  __0         299         8831      99 31 71 9 29
9SLKHUMBU             115    2       0    2   0    _   00 25    3                28 22       3d    56    6    323L  36 44           168    6210     0        0      99   687   186    1761    51          3      160        86 1       95 7     53 2     16
IORAMECHHAAP               335    9       0     9    3      0      3    60      0    60   39      2 1    60   51      1 2   63   93       7   100   4      1 1    IS5   259    51   310    2921    5          13      250        7731       94 2     83 5    76 
1 1SINDHUPALCHOK           245   10       01  10   21       0    2 21    43     3    46   32      28    60   70       38   108   36      37    73   0      1 8    18    22 14 336    319    16  __                    316        86 5       94 9     63 1    33
12 KAVREPALANCHOK 12361 29,    0,  29   Is                  2    17    33       0    33   14      26    40   28       52    8      4     40   104   4      12    16    17       32 319    296        22        1      267        7921       92 8     58 6    49
I  0AKA258   10                           0    t    25      0    29      0      4     54 36       28    64   38    45       8      6     15    61  IS      27    42      24 19 343    339             0f       4      33         85288               65I
B. NON-CORE (AND ADDITIONAL) DISTRICTS:
1 SUNSARI                 32 40         3    43   61       7 1681   86        23   tOO   48      78   126     0      13__13    0        18    18   0      1 3    1 3    235   155   390    384       4        2      383        66 8       98 5     60 3   117
21MORANG                  230   18    23    41   23       27    501   31      50    81   16      64    821 0          2     23    0     '15    iS   0    25    25       90   2061 290    287         9        0      281        39 1       97 0     30 4   140
31JHAPA                   348   13       0    13   19      0    19    62       2    64   42      49    911  63    103   166    0        59    59   0       6      6    199   2191 418    412         6        0      401        57 2       98 6     4706   149
41DHANKUTTA               369 22         8    22 25        0  25       84_  3    87 80           Il    91  65        74  139      0      8      80         8      8    276   104   380    3 71        4       5      307        74 8      97 6      726E    93
511LAM                                                         _        0      3      3    0      7      7     0    23    23 _         _                                 0    33    33       33      0        0       33      NA          100 0    NA
6SAPTARI                  487   22       0    22   42      0    42   130      10   130   75    66   141  112         IS   127    2      19    211    1 17    18    374   127   501    462           39        0      457        76 8       92 2     74 7   113
7SIRAHA                   394   28       3    29   32      8    40   119      10   129   50      80   135      3    22    25    5        7    12   0       3     3    240   133   3 73    35-1   16           6      344        60 9       94 1     64 3 15
8UDAYAPUR                340   221    0    22   35        0    35    47       4    51    3      16    19   37    1081 145    0          0     0a 0        21   2    144   130   2 74    284         7        3      261        42 4      96 4      52 6   190
9SARLAHI                   87    61    0       68  IS      0    IS    30      15    45    3    61    64       0,    2       2    0       I  1  1 0        15   IS       54    94   1481   130       17        I      130        62 1       878      36 5    33
10 RAUTAHAT"                                                                                                   0    25    25    0         3      30         2     21      0    30    30       23      7        0       23     NA            76 7    NA
IlIOHANUSHA                161    8                 13      0l  13    54        I    551  19    55    741 0  _ 0             0     0      9     9 0 0          11   95         661 161       155 2             0      155        59 0       988a     5850    66
12 MAHOTTARI               108    5       0     5   IS      0    IS    32      IS    47   22      45    67    8      12    12    0        3     3   0       7     7      7     82 IO          38      8       50      137        65         80       44      3
131LALITPUR                W06    4       0     4   21      1   22    la        7    25    8      33    41    2       12    14    0       7     7   0       9     9      53    69   122      I'll     I       tO      102        5000       91 0     43 4    53
1I4NUWAKOT                 106   15       0    IS    0      0     0    25       0    25   10      32    42     5    24    29       I    19    20   0    41    41         56   116   172    156       131       3      146        52 8      90 7      32 6    50
I51BARA                     32    6       0     6    3      0      3    17      61  23    0    24    24    0    29    29    0            43    42 3 0             6      26   109   135       96     34        3       65        8131      72 6   -193        6
1I1CHITWAN                   8    0       0     0    0      0     0      8      0I    8    0      16   16          00           00       18    180          2     2       8    36    44       40    2        2 3       37       100 0      90 9      1821    01
17 MAKVVANPUR                                                                     ~~~~~~~01   12    12    0    611   610       15.  IS        0    88    881    67       17        4       55     NA           76 1    NA
ig KATHMANDU                26    2       0     2    9      0     9    36       0    36    1    36    37    0f    9         9    0     0O       0   0    25    25        48    70   1181    93       13       12       79       184 6      78 8 40 71(22)
i9 BHAKTAPUR                43    3      0      3    31    0      3      8    29    37,  01   151   151   0           0      0    0      2      20          2     21    14    48    62        56      4       2        52       32 6       903      2361   29
20 DHADING                                                                                                                         0     II    110          5  5          0     16     6 16           0        0       16     NA          100 0    NA I
0   10       I ~~~~~~~    1   0    S 0    0f   10                                                A          10   NA
21 JAJARKOT                                                                                                                                                                   -oI
22 RUKUM                                                  II01  6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                            6          60                 6         NA          100NA
-SUBTOTAL B              31              9  24136         413         T76B   0227 51    8                                                 ul:1111zbzl                      96   97   93         67 203      63    340          6211        1.6      f87
OVERALL TOTAL  6677  305  29   334  446  56   502  1298    209  1508  889~   9041 17931 9901  9931 19831 7881  4941 12821 531  323   376   47701 30081 77781  71261  4591    1911   6839               71.41      20     165 18
I                                                                                                                                                         Pro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~igress Report upIv  1 J..  1
NOTE:                  ther -OTHER INCLUDES RESERVE BLOCK SOURCE AND MAY COVER SOME LISTED SCHOOLS
THAT HAVE OBTAINED MORE THAN THE NUMBER OF BLOCK INITIALLY ALLOCATED
51192 -THOUGH DATA IS POSTED IN JUNE 1996. SOME HAS YET TO BE CROSS VERIFIEDI.
Other districts 1  ILAM, RAUTAHAT. MAKWNANPUR, RUKUM  JAJARKOT AND DHADING                                                                                                                                                                                 w    t



Post Earthquake Schools Rehabilitation Project
Organizational Chart
Figure I
FProject E)rector]
F Deputy Pro ject Directo        |             
| Accounts/Financel |              .Procurement Documents                                                                          Engineering
| & Reimbursement      - |& Tendering                                                                                                   Unit
|Adminiiistration      & E                                                                         Fabrication Quality
|    Personnel    [                                                                         0        Control
Stores                                                     RegionalOC                                      R
l         l                                  M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kobile                               .        Mtrials
Mlaterials                                                  |Coord ination CellIs                                          .Storag Depots
Storage Depots             District Engineers                                                                                  Banp
Total 16 districts                                                        District Enigineers       Ranigunj
Basantapur                   One Engineer per                                                          Total I I Districts       Jiri
Beltat                            District                                                         One Engineer per District     Sindhuli
I)haran                                                                                                                                                       C
Katari                        _     ICommiiuiiity Buildin                                                       l                                         b 
Lalhan                           Overseers                          G,roups and                           Overseers                                          f 
I'hidini                       Nine O/S per                      Workers (Masons)                       Nine O/S per
District                                                                District                                         x












IMAGING
Report No.:          16480
Type:     ICR



