Document of
The World Bank
IOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5063-NEP
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 17.6 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 31, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURNICY BQUIVALWnTS
(As of March 01, 1989)
Currency Unit       -      Nepalese Rupee (NR)
US$1.00             -      NRe 26.5
NR 1.00             -      US$  0.038
NRs 1 million       -      US$37,736
EIGHSS AND NEASURES
Metric                     BritishJUS Equivalent
1 meter (m)                    3.28 feet (Yt)
1 kilometer (km)               0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (kmZ)       247 acres (ac)
LIST OF ABBR8VIkTIONS
EAARRP       -   Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction
and Rehabilitation Project
HMG          -   His Majesty's Government
MOEC         -  Ministry of Education and Culture
HHPP         -  Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
SRU          -   Schools Rehabilitation Unit (under EAARRP)
Fiscal Year
July 16 - July 15



FOR OMCAL UUE ONLY
NEPAL
EARTEOUAU mIRON          SCHOOLS             PROJECT
Credit nd Project Sumnary
Borrowers                   The Xingdom of Nepal
Amonut:                     SDR 17.6 million (US$22.8 million equivalent)
Tenus:                      Standard, vith 40 years maturity
Financing Plans
US$ Millions
Government                3.7
Local Communities         3.7
IDA                      22.8
Total                    30.2
Economic Rate of leturu:   Not applicable
Staff APpraisal Report:   None. Technical Annex attached in lieu.
MaP:                        IBRD No. 21552
This document has a mrtc  distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUH AND RECOMOENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TME INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN EARTHQUAIE EMERGENCY SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for SDR 17.6 million
(US$22.8 million equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed
credit would be on standard IDA terms -with a maturity of 40 years. It
would help finance the rehabilitation and reconstruction of schools
affected by the August 1988 earthquake.
2.       Background.  An earthquake measuring 6.7 on the Richter scale
struck parts of Eastern and Central Nepal on August 21, 1988. Over 720
persons died and widespread damage, estimated at that time at NRs 4.2
billion (US$170 million), occurred to housing, schools, hospitals, public
buildings, roads and bridges. More than 2,000 schools were destroyed or
seriously damaged and a further 350 affected to varying degrees, some
districts reportedly losing all of their schools. Overall, at least
400,000 school children have lost access to regular classroom
accommodations. Damage to schools was extensive, attributable largely to
poor, mostly traditional standards of construction. Much of the damage
sustained could have been avoided through relatively simple improvements in
construction techniques.
3.       His Majesty's Government (HHG) quickly mounted an initial relief
operation for the affected areas, coordinated by the Ministry of Housing
and Physical Planning (MHPP). This relief included care for the injured,
financial compensation to individuals and communities, and some materials
for emergency shelter. HMG's next priority was, understandably, to
rehabilitate housing and this is being supported by IDA through a major
component attached to the Municipal Development and Earthquake Emergency
Housing Reconstruction Project (Credit 1988-NEP). In December 1988, HMG
took up IDA's earlier offer of assistance for schools reconstruction. An
IDA mission followed shortly thereafter in January-February 1989 to assess
damages. The mission found chat the cost of schools reconstruction greatly
exceeded both the earlier estimates and the potential savings from the
ongoing Primary Education Project (Credit 1463-NEP), which had been
considered as a likely option for funding schools rehabilitation. As a
donors' meeting arranged by IDA in February 1989 failed to elicit any
substantial funding for schools rehabilitation, IDA began development of a
separate project to meet the emergency short and medium-term schools
reconstruction needs.
4.       Rationale for IDA's Involvement.  IDA has had a long-standing
development role in Nepal in the education sector and this has included
financing for four education projects. Significant progress in enrollment
has been achieved since the 1950's, but about two-thirds of the population
remains illiterate. In recent years HKG has been allocating an increasing
share of the education budget te the expansion and quality improvement of
basic education. Nevertheless, ;ince the share of GDP devoted to education
is very low (about 2Z), the resources are inadequate to meet HMG's goal of



universal primary education by the year 2000, and basic education will
continue to require substantial external assistance for the foreseeable
future. Diversion of scarce local funding for education to the
rehabilitation of schools in the affected areas would disrupt ongoing
education programs in other areas of Nepal, and EMG therefore turned to IDA
for ass0stance. Although valuable time has been lost, in assessing the
full extent of the earthquake damage, the need remains great and the
emergency real. To minimize the period of disruption to schooling, it is
now even more important that a major effort be mounted to achieve the
greatest possible reconstruction effect during the next 12 months before
the start of the 1990 monsoon season. Through its emergency lending
procedures, IDA is well placed to rapidly provide this assistance and to
allow EMG to focus on the short/medium term reconstruction of damaged
schools while maintaining the momentum of longer term programs for
providing basic education. A basic education project in support of EMG's
longer term efforts is planned for FY91.
5.       Project Objectives.  The proposed project aims tot (a) provide
immediate assistance to 1MG in support of its program to reconstruct/
rehabilitate about 2,350 schools in the earthquake affected areas of the
Eastern and Central Development Regions of Nepal; and (b) introduce
earthquake resistant design features into reconstructed school buildings
and significantly improve the durability of these facilities.
6.       Project Description.  The proposed project (US$30.2 Pillion
equivalent) would assist EMG with the reconstruction of about 2,000
destroyed or seriously damaged schools and the repair of a further 350
earthquake affected schools in Eastern and Central Nepal. It would also
provide technical assistance to HKG for the engineering design of
earthquake resistance measures in the school buildings, for management
assistance and for auditing and evaluation. The credit would finances the
provision of basic school structures comprising a roof, permanent floor and
sill height perimeter walls; building elements not readily available in
communities plus skilled labour and technical supervision for the
construction; equipment and supplies for field staff; vehicles for
transportation and for selected staff; consultant services; and operating
costs associated with project administration. The credit would also
finance an estimated 252 of the cost of transporting construction materials
from designated depots to building sites and of construction works
undertaken by the communities. Community inputs would be in the form of
labour for porterage, for stock-piling of locally available materials and
for labour during construction.
7.       Imulenntation.  The proposed project would be executed over a
3-year period by the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning (MHPP) which
has overall responsibility for coordinating the national earthquake relief
response. It will benefit from the extensive, functioning, committee
structure established shortly after the disaster, by HEPP, at the Central,
Regional, District and Lccal Levels. These committees include
representatives from the education sector and meet regularly for
reconstruction coordination and monitoring. To oversee project
implementation, the proposed project will expand the HHPP's existing



- 3 -
Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
(EAARRP) implementation organization established for housing
reconstruction, through the establishment of a separate Schools
Rehabilitation Unit (SRU) and including the recruitment of about 500
skilled masons/carpenters to supplement EAARRP field staff of engineers and
overseers. Designs for typical school buildings are being prepared by the
architectural section of the EAARRP implementation unit.  The community
participation tradition on which Nepal depends greatly for basic school
financing and construction would be maintained in the proposed project.
Construction would be undertaken on the basis of agreements vith the
respective Village Panchayats or School Reconstruction Committees.
Technical supervision and lead construction skills would be provided by th-
SRU.   Project management, organization and implementation arrangements
have been incorporated into an operational action plan.
8.       A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule
A. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 17.6 million (US$22.8 million
equivalent) would finance about 812 of the project net of taxes and duties.
HMG will provide US$3.7 million as counterpart funds plus $0.4 million
which has already been distributed to communities during the immediate post
earthquake phase. The community contribution in terms of porterage,
construction labour and the supply of locally available materials is
estimated at US$3.7 million equivalent, about 122 of total project costs.
9.       The Guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits
would be followed for the procurement of goods and works. The Guidelines
for the use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers would be followed for
retaining consultants. Amounts and methods of procurement and of
disbursements and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A
timetable of key processing events and the status of Bank-Group operations
in Nepal are given in Schedules C and D. A Technical Annex and a map are
also attached.
10.      Agreements Reached.  At negotiations, HMG submitted a
comprehensive action plan for project implementation, which was reviewed
and agreed. HKG further agreed to take the following actions: (a) the
submission to IDA of semi-annual revisions cf the action plan for the
duration of the project; (b) the appointment of consultants by October 15,
1989 to: review management and operating procedures and undertake annual
evaluations of project performance, review the earthquake engineering of
school designs, and establish the project accounting system and prepare
quarterly financial statements; (c) the submission of a model agreement
with the Village Panchayats or School Reconstruction Codmittees for IDA
review by October 15, 1989; and, (d) making administrative arrangements for
the expeditious release of the proceeds of the credit to the SRU.
11.      Credit effectiveness conditions would be the establishment of the
Schools Rehabilitation Unit and the appointment of a Project Manager
acceptable to IDA.



- 4 -
12.      Benefits.  The major benefits of the project would be the
normalization of education services to over 400,000 students in the
affected areas and regained momen..um of HMG's basic educatin program.
Since rehabilitated schools would incorporate earthquake resistance
features, further benefits would be the reduced danger from earthquakes as
well as the improved durability of the strengthened buildings. Lessons
learned during project implementation would be applied to the formulation
of future education projects, with possible continuation of the
organizational framework for future projects.
13.      Rsks. Th  major risk is associated with possible d^ays in the
implementation of the project in a large, geographically difficult area
over a relatively short (3-year) period. Satisfactory performance is
highly dependent on human factors, such as the willingness of mountain and
hill communities to provide porterage for construction materials and on the
motivation of field staff for technical supervision of construction in
isolated areas. The risk will be mitigated through close attention to
management and organization, by entering into prior agreements with the
school communities and by maintaining appropriate salary incentives and
working conditions for field staff. A recent development, the trade and
transit dispute between Nepal and India, could adversely affect
construction materials delivery and delay implementation. However, aMG is
making every effort to resolve this matter, and the financial contingencies
provided in the cost estimates for the project are expected to cover cost
increases that may be caused by delays.
14.      Recomuendatloa.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 1989



Schedule A
RANU       namo3c C  rIOOL8 U L l
Estimated Costs end Fimanci   Plan
Estimated Costs: a/
Local         Foreign      Total
-^--_---(USS million)------
Civil 'Jorks                             7.8           0.0          7.8
Building Materials, Equipment,
and Vehicles                          5.2           13.2         18.4
Consultants Services                    0.1            0.0          0.1
Project Administration                  1.0            0.2          1.2
Base Cost                      14.1           13.4         27.5
Physical Coatingencies                  0.9            0.9          1.8
Price Contingencies                     0.5            0.4          0.9
Total Project Costs            15.5           14.7         30.2
a/ Including taxes and duties of about US$2.0 million.
Financing Plan                         Local          Foreign      Total
--------(US$ Million)------
Gcvernment                              3.7            -            3.7
Local Communities                        3.7           -            3.7
IDA                                     8.1           14.7         22.8
Total                  15.5          14.7          30.2



Project  mponent                _                                       Tot" I
IC0   LC  u        ".As       Cost
mII oilon)
Civl I Works                    -         0.9        2.0      4.9g/      7.0
Bullding Materirl.             14.0       0.4        0.7      -         21.1
Equlpmet and V hicle          (12.6)     (5.0)      (0.5)               (16.0)
Consultants Sorvics             -         -          -        0.1        0.1
(0.1)      (0.1)
Project Admilnlatraton          -         0.1        0.2      0.9        1.2
_          (0.1)       0.      (0.7)      (0.0)
Totsl                14.0        7.4       2.9       5.9       0. 2
Note: Flgures In parenthels are the aount. finonced by the IDA.
s/   Inacludes skilled labour and c_aunity participation In the form of labour
and local aterlals.
s of exvondtures
8 teoory                          Amount                   to b   itunnes
(U MIIMIon)
Civil Works
(a)  By contract                         0.7           75S
(b)  By communities                      1.0           751      of the Borrower's
contribution
(c)  By direct labour                    1.5           7SX
Building gaterials                      10.2            1O00    foreign
Equir-Aet and VehIcIls                                  10#X    local (ox-factory)
75X     of local expendl-
tures for other
locally procured
ltame
Consultants  Services                    0.1            1O0X
Project Administration                   0.9             75S
Unallocated                              2
Wrn
Estinated IDA Disbursme nt.                          IDA Fiscal Year
90             91             92
-(UsS In UTIlion)
Annual                                    7.0             8.v           7.8
CumulatIve                                7.0            15.0          22.8



-7
Schedule C
IPAL
EARUGUZA  Demos=  SCHOOLS                     PRUIL O  SOJWT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)     Time taker  to prepares        Two months (January/February 1989)
(b)     Prepared by:                   Government in collaboration with IDA
(c)     First IDA Mission/Appraisal
Mission departures            January 25, 1988
(d)     Negotiationst                  may 11-16, 1989
(e)     Planned Date of Effec-
tiveness:                    August 1989
(f)     List of Relevant PCRSs
and PPARss                   Not applicable



Sc*ulo 
EARMH EERECY SCL8   ABITATZON MRJECT
Tho Status of lonk Group 0pratiene In NMoIl
A. mu=            OF =1D! a/ k/
Amount
i ocnc ml Ilono-
No.       Yer    Borrower                    Purpoe                   IDA Undlobisrod
Twenty-sevn credlto fully dleureed                                       203.4        -
1055      1060   Kingom of Nepal Ilrrlptlon (Mhakall)                     17.0       4.
100       1 1961    Kinodom of Nepol   AorIcultural Ext.   Reserch        17.S       4.4
1101 S/  1981    Klngdoo  of Nepal    N II Food Productlon                 8.0        8.7
1i19 ve  102    Kingdom of Nopal    Second Education                     14.8       6.1
1260 2/   1032    Kingdo"  of Nepal    Petro. Exploration Promotion        7.9        2.4
1810 2s   10198   Kindom of Nepal    Irrlg. VI-Ihairawa Lumbini           16.0        5.5
1J89        s 108    Kingdom of Nepal    Cash Crop Development             6.0        1.7
1s "I  1088    Kngdom of Nop I   Tehnleal Assistance 11                    6.0        2.4
1400 SI  1904    Klngdo  of NopaI   Second Forestry                       10.0        .0.9
1452 1/  1904    Klngdom of Nep l   Karnall Prparatlon                    11.0        3.6
1408 2J   1904   Kingdom of Nep l    Prlimry Educatlon                    12.6       10.7
1473 SI  19B4   Kingdom of Nepal   Marsyangd  Nyrdoelectrie Powr         107.0      01.2
1615 Si   1085    Kingo  of Nepal    Thrd    hayI                        n47.5      40.6
1s84 2S 1965    Kngo  of Nepal   Agricultural Manpower De.                 6.4        9.0
1585 SI  10W0    Kingom of Nepal    Industrial D.evlopmentr76                        5.2
1570 Sn 1066   Kngdm of Nepal   Agricult ral Extenalon U                   7.2        6.0
i150 S    1065    Kingdo  of Nep l   Telecommunication TV                 22.0      20.9
1003 SI  1066    Kingdo ot Nepal    Cotege and Small ad. U1              10.0       8.1
1716      10      Kingo of Nepal   Nersyanl II Irrigation                 24.5      27.0
1627 SI  1906    Kingdo" of Nepal    Third Rural Cowevloent.It            19.1      20.1
101421    1907   Klngdom of Nepal    Sunmarl Morang Irrl Ipon             40.0      87.2
1902 2/  19# 8    Kingdom of Nepl    Third Technleal Assistance           14.4      18.7
1922   1006    Klngdom of Nepl    Road Fl^o Reh  bil tation              15.5       12.6
1924     o106    Kindo  of Nepl    Mahakali Irrigation II                 41.8      $1.1
10ow p1989   Klngdom of Nepal    Municipal Dev. A Housing Recon.          41.5      89.9
Total                                                          6856.     420.1
of which has be  repald                                      4.7
Total now outetandinW k/                                       681.1
Amount sold
Tol now hold bk  IDA
lotl |undl bur d                                                801.1    420.1
tI  No Bank loans have ben made to Nepal.
y   Prior to oxchange adjustments.
s/   IDA 6th and 7th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown In US Dollar
equivalent at dato of negotiations as shown In Prlsdent's Reports, and
undlsbursed amounts shown In US Dollar equlvalents are valued at the excWnsg
rat* applicablo on the date of this  batementu.  In som  COae, therfore, the
undinbursed balance Indicates  dollar amount greater than the original
principal credit amount expressed tn dollars.
OJ Not yet effective.



-9-
Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
NEPAL
EBaSQCAX ImuR==CY SCBOOLS UHA3ILITATIOE PRO=?CT
9. STATEMENT OF IZC INVESTHMENTS
(As of March 31, 1989)
Investment                                         Type of   Amount (USS million)
No.      Year       Obliger                     Business   Loan   Equity  Total
312      1975   Soaltee Hotel (Private) Ltd.  Hotel         2.7      0.4    3.1
624      1982   Nepal Orind Magnesite           Mine and
(Private) Ltd.                process
magnesite
ore         5.0       -     5.0
Total gross commitments                                        7.7      0.4    8.1
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales           -       -      -
Total commitments now held by IPC                              7.7 a/  0.4    8.1
Total undisbursed (including participants' portion)             -        -      -
a/   Exchange adjustment  account for variance in total gross commitments, less
cancellations, etc., and total commitments now held by IPC.



- 10 -
TECHNCAL ANEXU
NMPAL
ZATSEOUWX  EHZRsNC     H SCHOOLS UBIAILITATION PROJCT
A. 5ACMDROU
1.       Although Nepal is a small country (145,391 square kilometers) it
contains the greatest altitude variation on earth, and more than a quarter
of the land area is above 3,000 meters (9,984 ft.). The topography of
Nepal is characterised by its steep-sided mountains, deep river gorges and
turbulent Himalayan rivers. Despite a concerted road building program
which has been under way for some years, much of the country can only be
reached on foot, and coumunications vith outlying districts are generally
difficult. Nepal also s'tt astride one of the world's major earthquake
zones called the Himalayan Alpine Belt and several major earthquakes have
been ezperienced In various parts of the country during this century.
2.       Though moderate in its intensity (6.7 on the Richter scale), the
earthquake of August 21, 1988 inflicted extensive damage (estimated at over
NRe 4.2 billion, US$170 million) on private housing as well as schools,
hospitals, public buildings and other infrastructure in 31 districts of
Eastern and Central Nepal. Measured in terms of persons affected, the most
severe effect was oa private housing followed by school buildings. About
66,000 houses were damaged beyond repair and the results of a technical
damage survey undertaken in March 1989 showed more than 2,000 schools were
destroyed and over 350 affected to a lesser degree. Some districts
reportedly lost all of their schools and well over 400,000 students are
without regular classrooms. Painful as all such disasters are, they also
provide important opportunities for learning. Observation has shown that
the bulk of the damage was sustained by traditional, poorly bonded,
stonewalled buildings; where sound construction techniques were employed
damage was generally minor and reparable.
3.       Government's ResDonse to the Earthquake.  His Majesty's Government
(HMG) quickly mounted an initial relief operation coordinated by the
Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning (MHPP). It included care for the
injured and financial compensation to individuals and communities for the
damage suffered; -NRs 2,000 for a death, NRs 1,000 for loss of a house,
plastic sheets for emergency shelter, cloth and 40 kg. of rice per family.
Compensation for badly affected schools totaled NRs 9.3 million
(US$370,000) enough to provide for some limited temporary shelter and
repairs equivalent to about 12 of the estimated cost of damages (US$30.2
million equivalent). This phase has been completed although many affected
schools, not originally included on damage lists, did not receive
assistance. HMG at this stage also requested support from the donor
community including IDA for housing and the Asian Development Bank for road
reconstruction.
4.       After the largely successful completion of the initial relief
operation, HMG launched a comprehensive program of reconstruction and
rehabilitation on September 22, 1988. This program includes targets for



- 11 -
reconstruction in the various sectors, and operates under the aegis of a
high-level Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
Central Committee (EAARRCC) under the chairmanship of the MHPP. Four
layers of committees have been organized at the Regional, District, and
Local (Elaka and Village Penchayat) levels. Through an executive order a
special project unit (EAARRP) was established to act as the central
technical coordinating agency for all earthquake related matters.
5.       HHG's early reconstruction strategy for the education sector was
unfortunately based upon the best available but incomplete information that
seriously under-represented the magnitude of the problem and misled Govern-
ment's approach to schools rehabilitation. On the basis of low initial
estimates, HMG also expected that an ongoing Primary Education Project
(Credit 1463-NEP) would have sufficient potential savings to finance the
schools rehabilitation efforts. HMG, therefore, gave its immediate
priority to the pressing needs for housing reconstruction, for which an IDA
emergency credit of US$31 million was approved and signed on March 14,
1989. HKG requested IDA assistance for schools reconstruction in mid-
December 1988, about three months after IDA's initial general assistance
offer.
D.  IDA'S  ESPONSE AND STRATEY
6.       In response to HMG's request, IDA fielded a mission in January-
February 1989 to assess damages and prepare recommendations for an IDA
response. A more complete picture of the extent of the disaster was by
then available to the mission. Potential savings from ongoing projects in
the sector were small and sufficient to finance only a minor portion of the
required rehabilitation. In the absence of any substantial indication on
the part of other donors of interest in financing reconstruction in the
sector, it was decided that an emergency IDA credit coupled with a reallo-
cation of available funds from the ongoing Primary Education Project
(1463-NEP) represented the best course of action to ensure an isuediate
st&rt to the rehabilitation effort.
7.       The proposed project is the first in the education sector in Nepal
geared towards disaster relief and IDA's response and strategy has been to:
(i) help HKG to prepare an affordable, implementable schools rehabilitation
program; (ii) ensure that within the schools rehabilitation program
priority is given to resumption of full-time education in the affected
areas at the earliest possible date; and, (iii) coordinate the overall
response from the donor commnmity.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
8.       Objectives.  The project would aim to: (i) rehabilitate about
2,350 schools including total or substantial reconstruction of about 2,000;
(ii) ensure that those schools not included in the first year's
construction program have temporary accommodation sufficient to permit
education through the 1990 monsoon season; (iii) continue the tradition of
substantial community responsibility for financing and construction of



- 12 -
schools on which Nepal heavily depends, but at a reduced rate in view of
the other earthquake related burdens on the communities5 and, (iv) develop
and introduce an appropriate level of cost-effective earthquake resistance
technology into reconstructed school buildings.
9.       Comwnnents.  The proposed project, estimated at $30.2 million
Including community participation, would comprises
(a) Schools Rehabilitation. lncludina reconstruction (US$28.6
million). These works would encompases (i) the storage and sapply to
communities of lightweight steel trusses and tubular columns, roofing
sheets, and cement for floors and mortar, doors and windows, plus skilled
labour for construction and technical supervision by MHPP; (ii) community
inputs including the provision of local sand, gravel, stones, and
additional labour for construction and the transportation (porterage) of
construction materials to the respective sites; and, (iii) construction
associated with establishment of materials distribution centers.
(b) Construction Implements. Euiument and Vehicles ($0.3
million). This would include vehicles for project administration; trucks
for delivery of materials to secondary and tertiary depots; motorcycles for
supervision at the district level; and basic surveying tools, construction
implements, travel packs, plus medical kits for overseers and skilled
labour recruited by the project.
{c) Consultants Services ($0.1 million). Consultants would be
retained by MHPP tot (i) assist with the establishment of monitoring,
supervision and accounting systems for the project; (1l) prepare quarterly
financial statements and undertake annual reviews of management performance
and implementation progress; and, (iii) review schools designs for
earthquake resistance measures.
(d)  Prolect Administration ($1.2 million). Project administration
vould include incremental salaries of project implementation unit staff
including staff recruited for materials storage depots; office and storage
facilities rentals; and computer equipment, operational expenses and
vehicle maintenance over a three-year period.
D.  PROJECT IMPLDEENTION AND INSTITUTIONAL RRAU9EENTS
10.     HMG has already mobilized two parallel networks to oversee imple-
mentation of the national earthquake response as follows:
(a) Earthquake Affected Areas neconstruction and Rehabilitation
(ZAARR) Committees. A high-level Central Committee (EAARRCC) has been
constituted under the chairmanship of the Minister of Housing and Physical
Planning and has cabinet level representation from all relevant ministries,
including education. Under the Central Committee, four layers of commit-
tees have been established at the Regional, District, Elaka, and Village
Penchayat level. For development administration purposes, Nepal is divided
into 5 Regions which in turn are divided into 9 to 19 Districts. Each
district contains 9 Elakas (or areas) and each Elaka contains S to 6
Village Panchayats (Units). Each Village Penchayat is further divided into
9 wards. At each of the four levels the education sector is represented by



- 13 -
the appropriate education official. In addition, sub-committees will be
established for the schools rehabilitation program at the District Level
chaired by the District Education Officer (DEO), and at the village level,
for each school to be rehabilitated, the sub-committee would be ch .ired by
the chairman of the established school steering committee. Although the
structure appears complex, it is functioning and represents a valuable
monitoring and feedback channel to the rural areas.
(b) ESARR Project (EAARRP). By virtue of an executive order of
Government establishing a special Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction
*          and Rehabilitation Project (EAARRP), the Ministry of Housing and Physical
Planning (MHPP) has been assigned overall responsibility for coordination
of the national reconstructionlrehabilitation effort. A Central Unit
established under the EAARRP would implement all components of the project
except: (i) disaster management; (ii) epicentral and seismic mapping; and
(iii) house reconstruction loans. Disaster management, and epicentral and
seismic mapping would be implemented by the Ministry of Home and the
Department of Mines and Geology, respectively, while house reconstruction
loans would be implemented by the three major Nepalese Banks. The Central
Unit -- already functional and consists of 4 administrative sections, viz.
general administration, information and monitoring, technical, and program
and budgeting. This Central Unit has already contracted the services of 27
engineers and 254 overseers (technical officers) for the housing
reconstruction program in the affected districts. They were all given
initial training in basic earthquake resistance technology for housing.
11.      Proiect Unit.  For rehabilitation of schools damaged by the
earthquake, a Schools Rehabilitation Unit (SRU) would be established under
the EAARRP Central Unit.  It would have a Project Manager who would report
directly to the Central Unit Special Coordinator. The unit would be
structured and staffed to perform the following project functions: (i)
Procurement; (ii) Technical/Engineering; (iii) Internal Management; (iv)
Accounting; (v) Program Monitoring. The staffing arrangements proposed by
HMG are acceptable to IDA and have been incorporated in an action plan
which will be updated semi-annually. Establishment of the SRU and
appointment of a Project Manager acceptable tC IDA will be conditions of
effectiveness.
12.      Action Plan.  Although the Project will benefit greatly from the
umbrella committee structure which is already functioning, project imple-
mentation is nevertheless expected to present a formidable staff management
and logistic challenge due to the remoteness of construction sites and the
dependence on human factors. Careful planning and scheduling of project
inputs and organization of SRU field personnel, construction materials
distribution, as well as community mobilization and participation will be
required. Procedures for monitoring the appropriate use of project
supplied building materials will be developed. HKG formulated a
comprehensive action plan for project implementation covering all aspects
of staffing (headquarters and field), construction scheduling,
expenditures, auditing, and community inputs. The project would include
consultants services of an organization and management specialist to assist
the SRU in finalizing the action plan, for semi-annual updating, and for
annual evaluations of project performance. As requested by IDA, EAAMRP
have undertaken a comprehensive technical survey of damages to schools in
the affected areas. This information formed the basis for cost estimation



- 14 -
and for detailed planning of project implementation. The findings of the
survey and updated cost estimates yere submitted by negotiations. EMG
agreed tot ti) submit to IDA semi-annual revisions of the action plan for
the duration of the project: and (ii) appoint an organization and
management consultant by October 15, 1989.
13.      Construction Comonent.
(a) Objective. A principal objective will be to ensure that in
the shortest time possible, all affected commuities will be provided vith
a basic, permanent structure consisting of 5-13 classrooms. Por those
communities unlikely to be provided permanent facilities by the end of the
first construction season, appropriate measures will also be taken to
ensure adequate temporary protection and avoid further disruption of
eAucation from monsoon rains.
(b) Oraaiwation. Construction is being planned in two distinct
phases. Phase I will cover community mobilization, including agreement to
transport construction materials and to provide stones, sand, gravel and
labour for construction. Erection of about 85Z the basic building shall be
by SRU teams assisted by communities. Phase II will comprise the
completion of walling and finishes by the local communities by sub-contract
agreement under the technical supervision of the SRU. Previous experience
in Nepal has shown that due to the remoteness of most sites, regular
contracting procedures are costly and often bids are not forthcoming.
Construction under the project will depend upon the traditional willingness
of the communities to undertake a significant portion of construction
related activities. In about 15Z of the sites where access is
straightforward regular construction contracts would be entered into, with
the SRU supplying imported materials.  The MHPP vill conclude contract
agreements with Village Panchayats or school reconstruction committees to
rehabilitate affected schools in their respective areas. The agreements
will specify the extent and type of construction works to be undertaken, as
well as the roles and responsibilities of the Village Panchayats and the
SRU. A model agreement will be submitted to IDA for review by October 15,
1989. The Ministry of Zducation and Culture would be fully consulted on
the preparation of school designs and on scheduling of the rehabilitation
program.
(c) Technical Aporoach. To minimize porterage and speed up the
Phase I construction process, MHPP have opted for a technical solution
based, as far as possible, on lightweight steel trusses and columns, metal
roofing sheets, and a minimum requirement of heavy materials such as
cement. Construction materials not available in the villages will be
supplied by the project, as well as skilled labour for construction and
technical supervision. Communities will contribute local construction
materials as well as labour for materials transportation to site and part
of the labour during construction. For school reconstruction, prototype
designs have been prepared by the MHPP and were reviewed during
negotiations. These incorporate earthquake resistance measures with
particular attention being paid to the bonding of corners, crosswalls, and



- 15 -
avoidance of long unrestrained sections of walling. Measures to strengthen
new construction against earthquake forces would represent cost effective
improvements to current traditional Nepalese building techniques and would
be based on UNESCO suggestians for Protection of Educational Buildings
against Earthquakes'. These could be expected to provide appropriate
protection against serious damages up to force 7 on to Richter Scale (only
32 of the world's earthquakes are of greater intensity). For protection
beyond this point, special more costly engineering *echniques must be
employed. During negotiations, HMG agreed to appoint a consulting engineer
by October 15, 1989 to review the appropriateness of earthquake features of
school designs prepared by the MHPP.  For repairs to buildings, where
appropriate, structural strengthening will also be undertaken.
(d) Construction Materials Distribution. Implementation of the
project will depend greatly on the effective delivery of construction
materials to more than 2,000 project sites over a 2-3 year period and this
requires an effective distribution system. The SRU plans to establish a
total of about 18 temporary storage and distribution centers in the
affected areas through construction and, where possible, rental. Four or
five of these will be primary centers, establisbed for stockpiling of bulk-
procured construction materials following delivery from various suppliers.
Materials will be further transported to smaller secondary/tertiary storage
points strategically placed to minimize porterage distances. These will
include some off-road points in remote areas where supply can be by air
only. Communities will transport materials to final locations. Materials
*          delivery to the distribution points will be according to the construction
schedule that the SRU will develop and which will be incorporated in the
action plan for the project. To minimize personnel recruitment under the
*          project, the EAARRP will investigate the feasibility of inviting major
suppliers to establish and operate the larger depots.
14.      Project Costs and Financint.  The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$30.2 million with a foreign exchange component of
US$14.7 million or 492 of total cost. Identifiable taxes and duties are
US$2.0 million and the total project cost, net of taxes and duties is
US$28.2 million equivalent. The proposed IDA credit of US$22.8 million
equivalent would finance 812 of the total project cost, net of taxes and
duties.  HMG will provide US$3.7 million as counterpart funds.  EMG would
also provide adequate funding to enable MHPP to implement all construction
under the project. The project would include financing of $1.0 million,
equivalent to about 25Z of: (i) the estimated cost of community porterage
of building materials; and (ii) construction works undertaken by the
communities. The amounts to be financed will be stipulated in agreements
to be concluded with the Village Panchayats (para. 13(b)). The balance,
US$3.7 million equivalent, about 122 of project costs, would represent the
approximate value of the community inputs in terms of labour for
transportation and construction and for local construction materials.
15.      Procurement.  Goods and works would be procured in accordance with
World Bank Group Guidelines. The principal contracts would be for: steel
supply and fabrication of lightweight steel trusses and pipe columns; metal
roofing sheets, doors and windows. As far as possible, these would be bulk



- 16 -
procured in quantities corresponding to the annual school construction pro-
gram and according to a schedule acceptable to IDA. Contracts for building
materials, vehicles and equipment above US$250,000 would be appropriate for
international competitive bidding CBCI) and it is expected that contracts
totalling about US$14.0 million would be awarded following ICB procedures.
In view of the need to adhere closely to delivary schedules, MMG intends to
prequalify prospective construction materials suppliers/fabricators, to
ensure adequate financial and production capacity to undertake the proposed
contracts. Local competitive bidding (LCB) acceptable to ID would be
followed for goods and works contracts under $250,000 except that contracts
under US$25,000 (up to an aggregate of US$0.7 million) may be procured
through prudent local shopping with price quotations from at least three
suppliers. Review and approval by IDA, prior to award, will be required
for all contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent. This
would result in the review by IDA of about 802 by value of contracts
awarded. Cement supplies estimated at about US$300,000 equivalent over the
three year implementation period would be procured through LCB on a regular
basis in order to minimize the risk of deterioration of supplies during
etorage. Skilled labour for construction and supervision will be employed
directly by SRU and the value of this and project financed community inputs
is estimated at about US$2.5 million.
16.      Disbursement.  The project would be implemented over three years
with disbursements extending over 3 1/2 years, closing on February 28,
1993. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against eligible
expenditures as follows:  752 of expenditures on civil works undertaken
through regular contracts, by direct labour, and by community agreements
1002 of foreign and local ex-factory expenditures and 752 for other
purchases of building materials, equipment (including vehicles,
construction implements, field equipment for staff, office equipment); 1002
of ezpenditures incurred for consultants services: and 752 of project
administration costs excluding rental expenditures. Full documentation
would be sent to IrA in support of all civil works, equipment and building
material contracts above $100,000 equivalent and all consultant services
contracts. Itemized statements of expenditure (SOB) certified by the SRU
would be used for all civil works, equipment and building material
contracts less than $100,000 equivalent, all Village Penchayat and School
Reconstruction Comittee construction agreements and project administration
costs. The documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by 8RU and
made available to IDA representatives on request. This documentation would
be subject to audit. Disbursements against project administration
expenditures would be at a fixed rate in view of the fact that the
implementation period is short and the administrative structure disbands
upon completion of the project.
17.      To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account of US$2.6 million
equivalent, equal to 4 months disbursements, would be established at the
Nepal Rastra Bank. An assurance was received from HMG at negotiations that
in view of the emergency nature of the project, appropriate arrangements
would be made for the expeditious release of the proceeds of the credit to
SRU.
18.      Accounts and Audit.  SRU would maintain separate accounts and
records for the project. For all expenditures for which withdrawals would
be made on the basis of SOEs, SRU would arrange to maintain separate



- 17 -
records and accounts. Independent consultants acceptable to IDA would be
appointed by October 15, 1989 to establish the project accounting system
and prepare quarterly financial statements. Independent auditors
acceptable to IDA would audit the project accounts each year. Copies of
the unaudited accounts would be sent to IDA as soon as available, but not
later than six-months after the close of each fiscal year, and a certified
copy of the final report, complete with the auditor's comments would be
sent within 12 months. Audit reports would include a separate opinion as
to whether the funds disbursed against SOEs have been used for the purposes
for which they were provided. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the accounting and auditing requirements outlined above will be met.
19.      Environmental Impact.  Since the project would finance
reconstruction/rehabilitation, construction would be mostly on the original
sites and no significant additional impact on the environment would be
expected. The use of steel for the replacement roof structures, and
probably for doors and windows, would minimize the use of timber and help
to avoid deforestation.
20.      Reportina and Evaluation.  The normal semi-annual progress
reporting requirement would be waived due to the short implementation
period and instead the project action plan, revised at least semi-annually,
together with contract awards, disbursement documents and IDA missions
would form the basis for routine monitoring of progress. Due to the
relatively complex organizational arrangewmnts required for project
implementation, after the first six months and at the end of each year
thereafter, an independent evaluation of progress and problems encountered
would be undertaken by consultants acceptable to IDA.



C  it                          St                                 St              NEPAL                    IBiD 2455~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ND2,
s 8b  #                                "                                  e              ~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N E P A L   tjR25
EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
SCHOOLS REHABILITATION PROJECT
IDA'at1 /% r.n All W"oh Hgorx ;i
* wo.0 Affre   oo             Denopfloio., to-nt..
<44..>P  a&PA /
,                       -                                   Su            \                    #j.                              ]   qi.   APRL198,!  - 
~~~2   ~~~~~  , 5/~ ~ ~ ~~ -
tt~~~~~~~~s  G>~~~~~ Y P1Aw
C                                                                                  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -H.a
WAIP" ~ ~   ~    A
0  40  IF  1?0   1460                            --     U 
ol ~~~~D  4)   4D  ibo ~       ~       ...      - 
N.1    A
Ojootojo b.o,ooo.odhn                                            I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



