Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2047 NEP
       (Earthquake Emergency Schools Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                         KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 8, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2047 NEP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  8,  1989,  between  KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "SRU"  means  the  Schools  Rehabilitation  Unit  of the
Earthquake Affected Areas to  be established pursuant to paragraph
1 of Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement within the Borrower's Ministry
of Housing and Physical Planning;
     (c)  "Nepal Rastra Bank"  means  the Borrower's central bank,
established and operating under  the  Borrower's Nepal Rastra Bank
Act, 2012 (1955);
     (d)  "Project Area"  means  the  31  Administrative Districts
affected by the  August  21,  1988  earthquake  and located in the
Borrower's Eastern and Central Development Regions; and
     (e)  "School   Reconstruction    Sub-Committee"   means   the
committees established  in  the  Project  Area  by  the Borrower's
Earthquake  Affected   Areas   Reconstruction  and  Rehabilitation
Village Panchayat Committee.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  seventeen  million  six  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,600,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Nepal Rastra
Bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date  shall be February 28, 1993 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
Page  3
such other rates as may be  set  from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The  rate  set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  April 15 and October 15
commencing October  15,  1999  and  ending  April  15,  2029. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on April 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
the SRU with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate earthquake  engineering,  administrative and financial
standards and  practices,  and  shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds,  staffing,  facilities,  services  and  other resources
required for the Project.
Page  4
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request, including without limitation on
               the foregoing unaudited Project accounts and finan-
               cial statements for each  fiscal year, certified as
               to their accuracy  and  authenticity by an indepen-
               dent auditor acceptable to the Association, as soon
               as available, but not  later  than six months after
               the end of each such year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
Page  5
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  l2.Ol (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the  SRU  has been established, headed by
an officer with  qualifications  and  experience acceptable to the
Association, and staffed in adequate numbers.
     Section 5.02. The date forty five (45) days after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  Secretary,  Ministry  of  Finance  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          His Majesty's Government
          Kathmandu
          Nepal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ARTHA                           2249-NP
                Kathmandu, Nepal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                          By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
Page  6
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Amnon Golan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category             SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  by Contract           540,000          75%
     (b)  by Community          770,000          75% of the
          Agreement                              Borrower's
                                                 contribution
     (c)  by direct          1,160,000           75%
          contracting
          of labor and
          force account
(2)  Equipment,              12,470,000          100% of foreign
     vehicles and                                expenditures;
     building                                    100% of local
     materials                                   expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost); and
                                                 75% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                80,000          100%
     services
(4)  Salaries and               700,000          75%
     allowances of
     incremental
     Project staff
     and other
     Project
     operating and
     maintenance costs
     (excluding
     rentals)
(5)  Unallocated              1,880,000
Page  7
                            ___________
         TOTAL               17,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the  currency  of  any  country  other  than  that of the
Borrower for goods or  services  supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term  "local  expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of  the  Borrower  or  for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  Community Agreement  means  the  Agreements  to be
entered into pursuant to paragraph  4  of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made  in  respect  of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                         SCHEDULE 2
                 Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project  is to assist the Borrower
in  the  reconstruction  and  rehabilitation  of  the school
facilities damaged in the August 21, 1988 earthquake.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as  the Borrower and the Associa-
tion may  agree  upon  from  time  to  time  to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:   Reconstruction or  rehabilitation  of  about 2,400
school facilities in the Project Area, damaged in the August
21, 1988 earthquake, including  provision of required build-
ing materials and equipment.
Part B:   Provision of  technical  assistance  for:  (i) the
establishment of monitoring  and evaluation, supervision and
accounting systems for  the  Project; (ii) the establishment
of  quarterly  financial  standards   and  records  for  the
Project; (iii) the  establishment  of management performance
and Project implementation  progress  reviews;  and (iv) the
review  of  the  earthquake  engineering  standards  for the
school facilities under Part A of the Project.
                        *     *     *
     The Project is expected  to  be completed by August 31,
1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
Page  8
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   All bidders for the  fabrication  and  supply of steel struc-
tures shall be pre-qualified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Nepal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A 1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for civil  works,  building materials, vehicles and
equipment estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of $250,000 each or
less, may be awarded on  the  basis of competitive bidding, adver-
tised locally, in accordance  with  procedures satisfactory to the
Association; provided, however,  that  all  contracts estimated to
cost $25,000 each  or  less  and  in  the  aggregate not to exceed
$700,000 equivalent, may  be  procured  under contracts awarded on
the basis of  comparison  of  price  quotations  solicited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided further,
that: (a) an aggregate  amount  of $1,500,000 equivalent for civil
works may be carried  out  through  force  account and direct con-
tracting of  labor;  and  (b)  an  aggregate  amount of $1,000,000
equivalent for civil  works,  including transportation of building
materials and equipment, may be  carried out through direct agree-
ments with the  concerned  Town  and  Village  Panchayat or School
Reconstruction  Sub-Committee   utilizing   the   model  agreement
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  all  contracts  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
Page  9
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to carry  out  Part  B  of the Project, the Borrower
shall, by October  15,  1989,  employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.   The  Borrower  shall,  within  its  Ministry  of  Housing and
Physical Planning,  establish  and  thereafter  maintain until the
completion of the  Project,  a  unit  headed  by  an officer, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, and
assigned with  such  functions,  responsibilities, staffing, funds
and other resources as  shall  be  required  to  enable it to ade-
quately carry out the various activities under the Project.
2.   The Borrower shall, and shall cause the SRU to, carry out the
Project in accordance  with  semi-annual action plans satisfactory
to the Association, such plan to include scheduling, organization,
and deployment of  field  personnel,  building materials distribu-
tion, procurement arrangements and scheduling, community mobiliza-
tion, and monitoring  and  evaluation  reporting time-periods. For
such purposes, on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing
on February 1, 1990, the  Borrower shall, through the SRU, prepare
and furnish  to  the  Association,  for  its  approval, a proposed
action plan for  the  following  semi-annual period and thereafter
carry out the Project  in  accordance with such semi-annual action
plans, as so approved.
3.   The Borrower shall carry out the selection, planning, design,
construction and maintenance  of  the  works  under  Part A of the
Project in accordance with  standards and criteria satisfactory to
the Association.
4.   Prior to  commencement  of  the  works  under  Part  A of the
Project, the Borrower shall enter into agreements, satisfactory to
the Association, with each concerned Town and Village Panchayat or
School Reconstruction Committee in the Project Area for the carry-
ing out of required work  for the reconstruction or rehabilitation
of school facilities damaged  by  the  August 21, 1988 earthquake.
Such agreements shall include: (a)  an estimated total cost of the
works; (b) the obligation of the  Borrower to provide, in cash, up
to 25% of such estimated  total  costs;  (c) the roles and respon-
sibilities of the respective  Town  or Village Panchayat or School
Reconstruction Committee, and the  SRU;  and (d) the obligation of
the respective Town or  Village Panchayat or School Reconstruction
Committee to carry out the  works in accordance with standards and
criteria satisfactory to  the  Association.  For  purposes of this
paragraph, by October  15,  1989,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association,  for  its  approval, a model agreement
with  a  Town  and  Village  Panchayat  or  School  Reconstruction
Page  10
Committee  and  thereafter,  apply  such  model  agreement,  as so
approved.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $2,600,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit  Account  under the respective eligible Cate-
gories, and in the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall have
been justified by  the  evidence  supporting  the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
Page  11
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after  and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special  Account  as  of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished to  the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  No  further deposit by the Associa-
tion into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
