Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16641
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FIRST MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2920-AR)
May 30, 1997
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
Arg$1 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCU          -      Central Coordinating Unit
(Unidad de Coordinaci6n Central)
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IFC          -      International Finance Coorporation
MDF          -      Municipal Development Fund
NIDP-I       -      First Municipal Development Project
MDP-II       -      Second Municipal Development Project
PEU          -     Provincial Executing Unit
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:     Shahid Javed Burki
Director:           Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief:    Paul Meo
Task Manager:      Miguel A. Mercado-Diaz



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIRST MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2920-AR)
Contents
Preface .....i
Evaluation Summary  ......................
Part  I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.           Statement of Objectives .1
B.           Achievement of Objectives.                      3
C.           Major Factors Affecting the Project.            5
D.           Project Sustainability.                         7
E.           Bank Performance.                               8
F.           Borrower Performance.                           9
G.           Assessment of Outcome .10
H.           Future Operations .11
I.           Key Lessons Leamed .13
Part  II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:     Summary of Assessment .16
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits .18
Table 3:   Project Timetable .19
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual .19
Table 5A:  Project Costs .20
Table 5B:  Project Financing .20
Table 6:     Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 7:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .27
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Missions .28
Table 9:     Project Portfolio by Type of Subproject .29
Table 10:    Physical Investments by Type of Subproject      30
Table 11:    Purchases of Equipment by Type .31
Table 12:    Rate of Provincial Participation .32
Table 13:    Rate of Municipal Participation .33
Table 14:    Repayment of Municipal Subloans .34
Table 15:    Cost Recovery from Direct Beneficiaries .35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendixes:
A.          Borrower's Contribution to ICR ...................... 36
B.          Map ...................... 40



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FIRST MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2920-AR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Municipal
Development Project in Argentina, for which Loan 2920-AR in the amount of US$120
million equivalent was approved March 22, 1988, and became effective March 3, 1989.
The loan was closed March 31, 1996. Final disbursement took place June 5, 1996, when a
balance of US$205,344 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), under the supervision of
Miguel Mercado-Diaz, Task Manager (LAIPS), and reviewed by Paul Meo, Division
Manager (LAIPS), Orville Grimes, Project Advisor (LA1DR), Tim Campbell (LATAD),
Jim Hicks (AFTUl), David Vetter (LAIPS) and Mario Rothschild (consultant).
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and
completion mission in December 1996. It is based on information in the project files,
discussions with implementation units at the national and provincial levels, and with
elected officials and technical staff of participating municipalities.  The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
ini:ial pre1,armtion and es ecution, and by contributing its views, providing background
material, and ample support whenever needed.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FIRST MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2920-AR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The First Municipal Development Project (MDP-I) was primarily designed to
contribute to more effective public sector management at the provincial and municipal
levels through improved financial mechanisms for municipal investments. In this way, the
project effectively supported two critical national objectives: a) the mobilization of
resources in a non-deficit, non-inflationary manner; and (b) increased public sector
efficiency. These objectives were quite ambitious given the macroeconomic conditions
prevailing during 1987-88.  Argentina's economy was crippled by high inflation,
widespread stagnation and massive public sector deficits after decades of economic
strategies characterized by heavy state interventionism, inward-looking trade orientation,
and disregard for macroeconomic equilibrium. Capitalizing on the growing awareness of
the need to introduce drastic reforms at all levels of government, the project laid the
foundations for municipal reform by enhancing municipal practices and putting in place
sustainable mechanisms for the financing of needed municipal investments. With its
emphasis on fiscal responsibility and improved efficiency of municipalities, the project fully
supported the objectives of the reform program that was later implemented by the
Argentine Government.
Project Objectives
2.    The specific objectives of the project were to: a) mobilize external and internal
resources in a non-deficit, non-inflationary way to finance municipal investments that
would have positive economic and social impacts; b) strengthen municipalities' capacity
to plan, finance and execute cost-effective capital investment programs; and c) promote
structured, periodic consultations between municipal and provincial authorities for the
formulation and evaluation of investment plans.
3.    To accomplish these objectives, the project was structured as a portfolio loan that
onlent project funds to municipalities for subprojects in accordance with eligibility criteria
set for the provinces, the municipalities, and the subprojects themselves. These eligibility
criteria were designed to guarantee adequate revenue-sharing transfers to municipalities,
municipal creditworthiness, and recovery of the cost of physical investments from direct
beneficiaries.  The project financed subprojects under two components:  a) physical



iii
investments, including public infrastructure, community facilities, and the purchase of
equipment; and b) technical assistance and training.
4.    The project's design adequately supported the project's objectives. It combined a
few, well-defined eligibility criteria that ensured the achievement of the project's main
objectives, with a high degree of flexibility in terms of eligible subprojects that maximized
the project's attractiveness among potential sub-borrowers. Municipalities were assigned
an important role, including responsibilities for the assessment of their needs, subproject
selection, preparation and implementation, and the adoption and implementation of cost
recovery arrangements.  Strong municipal responsibilities fostered their ownership of
individual subprojects and maximized the potential for "hands-on" capacity building. As
individual subprojects were selected by municipalities according to their own needs, the
portfolio of subprojects was to be built over time following a "demand-driven" approach.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Project Objectives: As a whole, the project widely promoted
reform among participating municipalities and achieved substantial results in the area of
sector policy, institutional development and physical objectives. Specifically, it improved
sector policy by fostering the dialogue between provinces and municipalities, and by
deepening understanding of the need and the concepts underlying municipal reform. It
effectively improved public management at the municipal level by disseminating
responsible municipal practices and enhancing municipalities' ability to plan, finance, and
execute physical investments. The project also contributed to the rehabilitation and
expansion of the country's deteriorated infrastructure stock by financing a large number of
small physical investments estimated to have benefited more than 2 million people in 322
municipalities. However, the project attained only partial achievement of its financial
objectives. Although it established sustainable mechanisms for the financing of municipal
investments, based on cost recovery from direct beneficiaries and the capitalization of
Municipal Development Funds, the actual performance of these mechanisms was less than
expected.
6.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The implementation of the project was
characterized by very slow disbursements for the first three years. The initial delays were
caused by unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, the complex institutional framework of
subnational governments,  and the complexity of implementation that characterizes
portfolio loans. Once the macroeconomic environment stabilized, subsidiary agreements
were approved by provincial legislatures and a substantial number of subprojects were in
the pipeline, the project picked up momentum and disbursed almost fully over the next
three years.
7.    Project Sustainability: The sustainability of the reform process fostered by the
project in participating provinces and municipalities is somewhat uncertain over the long
term. On the one hand, the enhanced municipal management practices introduced by the
project have been incorporated into the routine operation of many municipalities;
moreover, the concept of cost recovery from direct beneficiaries is now an accepted



iv
objective among elected officials. The physical infrastructure and equipment financed
under the project generally have improved the delivery of services, and have frequently
resulted in considerable savings in operation and maintenance costs. Also, the PEUs have
effectively filled the gap between the provincial governments and the highly autonomous
municipalities, providing a venue for dialogue and consultation with regard to municipal
physical investments.  On the other hand, it less less certain whether the changes
introduced as a result of this operation could be sustained if: a) the macroeconomic
conditions worsen; b) an adequate system of incentive is not in place (see paragraphs 9
and 35 of the main report); and c) additional financing is made available to the
municipalities on softer terms. Also, it remains to be tested whether the interface between
municipalities and provincial governments in relation to investments will be maintained
once the Bank's projects are over and the PEUs are dismantled.
8.    Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance: The Bank's performance
was satisfactory with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of project identification
preparation. However, from a macroeconomic standpoint the Bank's performance at
appraissal was deficient, as the project was allowed to move forward despite the chaotic
macroeconomic conditions prevailing at the time. During the supervision stage, the Bank's
performance was satisfactory, although a more direct supervision of the provincial
executing units would have been desirable given the decentralized approach of the project
and its strong emphasis on provincial autonomy. The Borrower's performance was highly
satisfactory regarding project preparation and satisfactory regarding implementation and
less than satisfactory with regard to compliance with loan covenants.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The outcome of the project has been satisfactory. Municipal participation was
very high, the main objectives of the project were attained and the project contributed
considerably towards the advancement of municipal reform. It is important to note,
however, that the municipalities that participated in the project were those more prone to
reform.  Eligibility criteria stressing municipal creditworthiness and other project
conditionalities are likely to have operated as a self-selection mechanism promoting the
participation of the best-performing municipalities. Far from this being a shortcoming, the
project provided a framework consistent with the main lesson learned from lending for
reform worldwide: willingness to reform on the part of subnational governments is a pre-
condition for success.  As participating municipalities continue to demonstrate the
feasibility of cost recovery and the benefits from sound municipal practices, reform is
likely to extend to other municipalities.
10.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future municipal projects beyond
Argentina, can be learned from the implementation of this Municipal Development
Project:
11.   Portfolio loans can be effective tools in lending for reform. This project
demonstrates that portfolio loans can effectively combine wholesale lending and lending
for reform. By combining a set of a few clearly-defined eligibility criteria with a high level



v
of flexibility in terms of specific subprojects, the project effectively balanced the need to
guarantee the achievement of its reform objectives while maximizing its attractiveness
among potential sub-borrowers.
12.   Do not lend into macroeconomic chaos. An important lesson from Argentina is
not to lend under highly unstable macroeconomic conditions like the ones prevailing in
Argentina during 1987-88, which eventually led to hyperinflation and macroeconomic
chaos. The low level of disbursements over the first years of the project suggests that the
loan would not have performed well if the Convertibility Law had not been passed and
macroeconomic stability restored.
13.   Physical investment loans cannot be a substitute for adequate policy
incentives.  The funding made available through physical investment loans does not
provide per se sufficient incentives for municipalities to reform. An adequate system of
incentives, both at the provincial and municipal levels, are prerequisites for broader
municipal reform. At the provincial level, discretionary grants need to be removed and the
revenue-sharing transfer system needs to reward fiscally responsible behavior and
efficiency. At the municipal level, incentives should come from local constituencies that
hold elected officials accountable for their management of public funds.
14.   An important role for subnational governments is critical to the success of
the project.  Although the lack of adequate provincial and municipal technical and
institutional capacity may result in initial project bottlenecks, their enhanced
responsibilities within the project contribute to strong "hands-on" capacity building, both
at the provincial and municipal levels.
15.   Keep subproject requirements within reasonable bounds. Since individual
subprojects are generally small, it is important not to overdimension preparation and
evaluation requirements. Excessive requirements unduly increase the cost of borrowing
and promote the unnecessary use of private consultants, which diminishes the potential for
"in-house" capacity building.
16.   Simplify as much as possible all review, procurement, and disbursement
procedures. To effectively conduct a wholesale lending operation, it is critical to rely on
agile review, procurement, and implementation procedures. Given the large number of
subprojects --over 700 subprojects in the case of MDP-I-- and the vast number of related
documents, such as bidding documents, contracts, and terms of reference, that
characterize portfolio projects, simplified procedures are critical to avoid potential
administrative bottlenecks and undue burdens on both the Borrower and Bank staff. Bank
requirements for procurement and disbursement usually reflect practices that are more
appropriate for traditional projects than portfolio loans.
17.   Some supervision functions can be successfully privatized. In the case of
MDP-I, some of the supervision of the project executing units and the supervision of some
works were contracted to the private sector.  The experience was successful and
significantly reduced the supervision burden on the Borrower and the Bank.



vi
18.   Do not expect municipal portfolio projects to disburse quickly and easily at
first.   Municipal portfolio projects like MDP-I need to be designed with longer
implementation periods to account for the complex institutional framework of subnational
governments and the complexity in implementation characteristic of portfolio loans.






Part I
Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement of Objectives
1.    Towards the end of the 1 980s, Argentina was experiencing high inflation,
widespread economic stagnation, and massive public sector deficits as the result of over
five decades of heavy state interventionism, inward-looking trade orientation, and
disregard for macroeconomic equilibrium. As in most other countries in Latin America
and the Caribbean, there was growing awareness of the need to drastically redefine the
role of the government in the economy, reducing state intervention, tackling chronic fiscal
imbalances, and increasing efficiency at all levels of government.
2.    In its first steps towards reform, the Government sought Bank support to promote
two key national objectives, namely, to enhance resource mobilization and increase public
sector efficiency. Among the challenges faced by the Argentine Government was the need
to mobilize the resources needed for public investment and recurrent costs in a way that
would reduce deficit financing and inflationary pressures. At the same time, basic public
management skills that had been lost over years of high inflation had to be rebuilt. The
First Municipal Development Project (MDP-I) was designed to support these national
objectives by contributing to more effective public sector management at the provincial
and municipal levels through improved financial mechanisms for municipal investments.
Specifically, the project sought to promote financing mechanisms for justified municipal
investments that transferred, to the maximum extent possible, the full financial burden of
public investments and recurrent costs to direct beneficiaries. In addition, the project
sought to increase the efficiency of municipal governments in the delivery of services by
enhancing their capacity to plan, program, and budget for capital improvements programs,
as well as for the operation and management of existing and proposed facilities. Finally,
the project sought to provide an interface for municipalities and provincial governments in
relation to physical investments.
3.    The project's specific objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR,
Feb. 26, 1988), were to:
a)    mobilize external and internal resources in a non-deficit, non-inflationary
way to finance municipal investments with positive economic and social
impacts;
b)    strengthen municipalities' capacity to plan, finance, and execute cost-
effective capital investment programs; and
c)    promote  structured, periodic  consultations between  municipal and
provincial authorities for the formulation and evaluation of investment
plans.



2
4.     To accomplish these objectives, the project was structured as a portfolio loan that
onlent project funds to municipalities for subprojects based on eligibility criteria set for the
provinces, the municipalities, and the subprojects themselves. Provincial eligibility criteria
focused on resource mobilization, guaranteeing that shared revenues transferred to
municipalities were adequate, both in terms of the level of fiscal transfers and the
redistributive criteria. Municipal eligibility criteria focused on creditworthiness, requiring
that municipalities meet adequate current-account surplus and debt-servicing capacity
requirements to be eligible for physical investments.! Subproject eligibility criteria focused
on cost recovery, guaranteeing that a minimum percentage of the cost of physical
investments would be recovered from direct beneficiaries.2
5.     The project financed subprojects under two components: a) physical investments,
which included the construction and rehabilitation of public infrastructure, community
facilities, and the purchase of equipment; and b) technical assistance and training, which
included financial management, accounting procedures, computers, and maintenance
procedures. The project followed the "demand-driven" approach that is characteristic of
portfolio loans, as opposed to the "supply-driven" approach of traditional loans in which
subprojects are determined a priori. Municipalities were responsible for identifying and
selecting individual subprojects according to their own needs assessment. Thus, the
portfolio of specific subprojects was not defined at appraisal but evolved over time.
6.     The proceeds of the loan (US$120 million) were onlent from  the Central
Government to the five provinces participating in the project under the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. In turn, the provinces onlent to municipalities on "harder"
terms to capitalize a Municipal Development Fund set up to ensure project replicability
within each province. Each province was assigned an initial allocation of funds for the
first three years of the project's implementation. After that period, the provinces lost
guaranteed access to their initial allocation and those funds that had not been utilized were
reallocated based on performance of the province in project implementation.
7.     The project as designed, with its emphasis on flexibility, was highly effective in
addressing the wide range of needs and capacities among municipalities and the general
lack of data on municipal finances at the time. While eligibility criteria ensured that the
overall objectives of the program were met, the MDP-I provided a flexible framework that
allowed municipalities to assess their individual needs over time, prepare and implement
specific subprojects, and adopt cost-recovery arrangements tailored to these needs. Also,
I      Municipal creditworthiness criteria for physical investments required that municipalities had: a)
current revenues (excluding discretionary grants) that exceeded current expenditures; b) debt obligations
within adequate limits as defined by the following criteria: i) total debt not to exceed 60 percent of total
municipal revenues; and ii) total debt service of outstanding and proposed loans not to exceed 15 percent
of total budgeted revenues for the year of the proposed project.
2      Cost recovery criteria required that each annual investment plan presented by each municipality
had at least 65 percent of total proposed physical investments allocated to components for which 100
percent of total investment costs would be fully recovered from final beneficiaries.



3
by allocating resources based on performance, the project fostered competition for loan
funds among both provinces and municipalities and provided incentives for the agile
preparation and presentation of subprojects.  Finally, the municipal and subproject
eligibility criteria introduced through the project provided a good approximation of market
conditions, thus serving as an intermediate step toward the long term goal of municipal
governments' access to private financial markets.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
8.    The project was highly successful in terms of municipal participation. A total of
322 municipalities, accounting for more than a third of all municipalities in the five
provinces, participated in the project (see Table 13).  This high participation rate shows
that the incentives built into the project were indeed attractive to municipalities. Overall,
the project was an effective tool in promoting reform within participating municipalities
and achieved substantial results with regard to sector policy, institutional development,
and physical objectives, but only partial results with regard to financial objectives.
9.    Sector Policies:  Substantial Achievement.  The project sought to promote
reform within the municipal sector and dialogue between municipal and provincial
authorities. With its emphasis on creditworthiness, cost recovery and capacity building, the
project has been successful in complementing Argentina's overall reform program, which
increasingly has placed a strong emphasis on fiscal responsibility and management
efficiency of subnational governments. Together with other Bank operations aimed at
promoting provincial reform3, the MDP-I has been central in supporting the Argentine
Government's strategy for the reform of subnational governments. Although it is clear
that the MDP-I could not be a substitute for an adequate system of incentives in inducing
reform, it has been an effective tool in promoting municipal reform by rewarding fiscal
responsibility and supporting reform efforts of reform-minded municipalities. As softer
sources of financing to municipalities, such as discretionary grants from provincial
governments,   continue to  disappear as the result of tight provincial budgets,
municipalities are increasingly expected to subscribe to the concepts of creditworthiness
and cost recovery that were introduced by the project. The project also has increased the
dialogue between provincial governments and municipalities through the planning,
implementation, and follow-up actions associated with subprojects, including review of
annual investment plans, supervision of works, verification of cost recovery, and
repayment of municipal loans. It also has contributed to the collection of data on
municipal finances at the provincial level. Most importantly, it has deepened awareness of
the need for municipal reform, among both provinces and municipalities.
10.   Financial Objectives: Partial Achievement. The project sought to introduce
financing mechanisms to mobilize resources in a non-deficit, non-inflationary manner. To
achieve this goal, the project required that at least 65 percent of the financial burden of the
investment and recurrent costs of all subprojects in the municipal portfolio be recovered
3     These operations are the Provincial Development Project (Ln. 3280-AR), the Second Provincial
Development Project (Ln. 3877-AR), and the Provincial Reform Project (Ln. 3836-AR).



4
from direct beneficiaries through instruments such as betterment levies, connection fees,
and user charges. Although participating municipalities subscribed to the concept and
devised appropriate mechanisms in accordance with the project's requirements, they failed
to fully implement them. In Santa Fe, which was the only province that stressed the
implementation and monitoring of cost-recovery measures, the levels of cost recovery
have been those required by the project.4 Cost recovery is reportedly lagging in the
remaining provinces, with very few reliable data available to adequately assess it (see
Table 15). Thus, although municipalities eventually might recover some of the unpaid
debt when properties are sold or connections to municipal services are requested, the
failure to recover costs at higher levels has been a source of municipal deficit, at least in
the short run. It is also important to note that the Loan Agreement did not reflect the
importance that cost recovery was given in the SAR, thus limiting the Bank's ability to
legally enforce its compliance.
11.     At the provincial level, the project has not been a source of deficit, except in the
case of one participating province. Municipal debt has been repaid at a rate of almost 80
percent or more in four of the five participating provinces (see Table 14). In La Pampa,
however, more than half of the issued municipal debt is still outstanding. As the municipal
repayment of subloans was guaranteed through the provinces' revenue-sharing system, the
sluggish repayment of municipal obligations in La Pampa reflects the lack of willingness to
enforce the guarantee on the part of the province, suggesting that provincial authorities
have a weak commitment towards promoting fiscal responsibility within the province.
12.   Institutional Development: Substantial Achievement. The project sought to
promote the dissemination of responsible municipal practices, including the use of sound
bidding and contracting mechanisms, and to improve municipalities' technical capacity to
plan, finance, and execute investments. Although specific technical assistance components
were not widely implemented or stressed, the project has been highly effective in
increasing institutional capacity, particularly financial and managerial, through a "hands-
on" informal approach.  This informal institutional strengthening was accomplished
through the project's participation requirements, which made municipalities directly
responsible for: (i) devising and implementing cost recovery mechanisms; (ii) capital
budgeting of investments and management of cash flows; and (iii) subproject management,
including design, bidding, and supervision. Most municipalities, particularly those of small
and medium size, have improved significantly their technical capacity, and have
incorporated the improved practices introduced by the project, such as financial analysis
and bidding and contracting procedures, into routine municipal activities.  Although
municipalities that were not eligible for physical investments could still get financing for
technical assistance and training, almost no municipality took advantage of this option.
One of the contributing factors to the low demand for training and technical assistance
subprojects was the period of hyperinflation prior to 1991, during which financial
"wizardry" was far more important to municipalities than any structural reform.
4     Approximately 70 percent of the cost of all subprojects are expected to be recovered in Santa Fe,
with at least 65 percent of the cost of all subprojects being recovered from direct beneficiaries.



5
13.   Physical Objectives: Substantial Achievement.  The achievement of physical
objectives was substantially met. There was a higher demand for physical investment
subprojects than anticipated (79 percent compared to 59 percent of the total project cost).
More than 650 physical investment subprojects were implemented, with infrastructure
works alone benefiting more than 2 million people (see Table 9). The largest demand was
for pavement and related infrastructure (curbs, sidewalks, etc.), which accounted for
roughly half of all project costs. In the case of C6rdoba and Buenos Aires, pavement
subprojects constituted the bulk of their portfolios, accounting for 78 percent and 57
percent of all physical investments, respectively (see Table 10). A distant second was
sewage disposal, with about 10% of all project costs. However, sewage disposal was a
priority in Santa Fe, where it accounted for 31 percent of total physical investments. The
purchase of equipment, mostly for road maintenance and garbage collection, came in third
in terms of overall priorities, accounting for about 8% of all project costs (see Tables 10
and 11). Neuquen strongly favored the purchase of equipment, which accounted for 47%
of its portfolio of physical investments. There were considerable differences among
provinces in the composition of their investment portfolios, reflecting the wide differences
between provinces in terms of physical endowments, institutional frameworks, and
demographic, social, and economic indicators. Since municipalities were responsible for
establishing investment selection and prioritization, and, since it is mandated to
municipalities in some provinces, residents had the opportunity to oppose specific
subprojects, individual subprojects financed under the project are expected to have
responded to the needs of the recipients. Also, although not explicitly sought by the
project, some municipalities required contractors to spend a minimum percentage of the
cost of the investment locally, both in labor and purchase of materials, thus generating
multiplier effects on the local economy.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.   The implementation of the project was characterized by very slow disbursements
until 1991, or three years into the project. These initial delays were the result of several
factors, including unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, the complex institutional
framework of subnational governments, and the complexity of implementation that
characterizes portfolio loans. Once the macroeconomic environment stabilized, subsidiary
agreements were approved by provincial legislatures, and a substantial number of
subprojects were in the pipeline, the project picked up momentum and disbursed at an
annual rate of 27 percent over the next three years. Given the good performance of the
project, its closing date was extended from June 1995 to March 1996 to allow for its full
disbursement.
15.   Macroeconomic Conditions. The period following the approval of the project
was one of macroeconomic chaos, with inflation reaching up to 200 percent per month in
1989. Under these macroeconomic conditions, the project provided no incentives for
municipalities to participate, except for a handful of reform-oriented local officials. Being
fiscally responsible was not a rational behavior given the lack of accountability allowed by
the macroeconomic chaos, and financial planning and cost recovery of physical
investments made no sense in an environment of total uncertainty. This all changed in



6
April 1991, when the Convertibility Law was passed and price stability was finally
achieved. At that time the Government also implemented a swift set of reforms aimed at
tackling fiscal imbalances and deregulating the economy. Argentina's drastic reform
program not only resulted in significant improvements in the country's economic
performance but it also restored macroeconomic conditions that induced fiscal
responsibility and public management efficiency at all levels of government. With the right
system of incentives now in place, the demand for municipal subprojects to be financed
under MDP-I flourished.
16.   Complex institutional framework.   Under Argentina's federal system  of
government, subnational governments --i.e., both provinces and municipalities-- are highly
autonomous. In the case of provinces, they are govemed by their own constitutions,
executive, and legislative branches, which requires that each province signs an individual
subsidiary agreement that needs to be approved by the provincial legislature. This process
was very cumbersome and time consuming, particularly because MDP-I was the first Bank
project of this type in Argentina. It took provinces between one and two years to pass
legislation ratifying these subsidiary agreements.
17.   Complex implementation of portfolio loans. Portfolio projects like MDP-I are
significantly more complex to implement than standard investment loans, such as for dams
or roads. This is the result of several factors, including: (i) the large number of potential
sub-borrowers --in this case there was a total of 322 participating municipalities within the
five participating provinces; (ii) the great diversity among sub-borrowers in terms of most
relevant indicators, especially institutional and technical capacity; (iii) the high number of
subprojects --approximately 700 subprojects under MDP-I; (iv) the high diversity across
subprojects, which covered many sectors; and (v) the majority of the subprojects were
selected after appraisal. Thus, it is unreasonable to expect that a portfolio loan would
follow the disbursement profile of a traditional loan, and that the administrative costs
would be the same.  The disbursement profile initially included in the SAR was too
optimistic, and later had to be adjusted to better reflect the dynamics of portfolio loans.
Also, portfolio projects tend to be more expensive to execute and supervise than
traditional loans as a result of their increased complexity and the labor intensity required to
support the high level of municipal involvement sought by the project.
18.   Project Costs.  Actual project costs differed from  the ones anticipated at
appraisal, as follows: (i) there were more physical investments and fewer technical
assistance subprojects; (ii) higher project administrative and supervision costs; and (iii)
lower percentages of municipal counterpart funds and overall project costs (see Tables 5A
and B). In terms of the relative proportion of physical and technical assistance subprojects
in the portfolio, the period of macroeconomic chaos prior to 1991 may have discouraged
any serious efforts at reform on the part of municipalities, contributing to the low demand
for institutional development subprojects --2 percent of total project costs compared to
the 4 percent that was anticipated at appraisal. In terms of project administration and
execution costs, the cost of the central unit, the five Provincial Executing Units (PEUs)
and external auditing accounted for 9.7 percent of total project costs compared to the 4.6
percent initially budgeted. However, a high proportion of these costs -- all of which were



7
provincial counterpart funds -- was spent on informal technical assistance to municipalities
provided by the PEUs' technical staff. Finally, IBRD share of the project's financing was
increased from its original 50 percent to 75 percent in 1992, as the lack of municipal
counterpart funds was identified as one of the bottlenecks contributing to the slow
disbursements of the project. This action resulted in a lower total project cost (US$189
million compared to the initial US$240 million), with an overall 63.3 percent, 8.5 percent,
and 28.3 percent of IBRD, provincial and municipal financing, respectively. As the
project financed a time slice of investments, there were no price contingencies.
D.    Project Sustainability
19.   Sustainability: Uncertain. The project objectives have been met and important
administration reforms were made in many of the municipalities that participated in this
operation. However, the sustainability of the reform process fostered by the project in the
participating provinces and municipalities is somewhat uncertain, although there are signs
that the many of the changes introduced might be sustained over the long term.
20.   It was evidenced from visits to participating municipalities and reports from local
officials that the project, through the introduction of enhanced management practices and
sustainable financing mechanisms for municipal investments, has considerably improved
municipalities' technical capacity and has set in place mechanisms for the mobilization of
resources in a non-inflationary, non-deficit way that are likely to be sustained over the
long term. With regard to management practices, the project helped rebuild basic skills in
terms of budgeting, economic analysis, and programming of municipal investments that
had been lost over years of high inflation. Despite the lower level of cost recovery, the
concept has been successful, and it is no longer perceived by most local officials as having
high political costs. Interestingly, the municipalities in Santa Fe, where the PEU had
imposed the most strict monitoring of cost recovery by municipalities, are actively
developing innovative mechanisms to increase cost recovery in other municipal physical
investments and services.  With regard to the large number of physical investment
subprojects financed under the projects, they are likely to continue to work well and be
adequately maintained as a result of good technical design and supervision of works, as
well as the provisions made for maintenance and operation costs. Finally, with regard to
the interface for municipalities and provincial governments in relation to investments, it is
uncertain whether it will be maintained once the project is over and the PEUs are
dismantled. The PEUs have effectively filled the gap between the provincial governments
and the highly autonomous municipalities, providing a venue for dialogue and
consultations with regard to municipal physical investments.
21.   However, it less certain whether the changes introduced as a result of this
operation could be sustained if: a) the macroeconomic conditions worsen; b) an adequate
system of incentive is not present (see paragraphs 9 and 35 in the main report); and c)
additional financing is made available to the municipalities on softer terms. Also, it
remains to be tested whether the interface between municipalities and provincial
governments in relation to investments will be maintained once the Bank's projects are
over and the PEUs are dismantled



8
22.   Replicability: Less than Expected. The project also has set in place mechanisms
for project replicability, although its actual replicability has been less than anticipated.
Replicability within each municipality has been weakened by the lower level of cost
recovery and because, in most cases, the municipalities fully passed on to direct
beneficiaries the favorable conditions of their subloans thus, missing an opportunity to
capitalize and reach other beneficiaries. Replicability across municipalities was weakened
by the slow capitalization of the Municipal Development Funds. These Municipal Funds
were conceived as a sustainable financing mechanism to be established in each province to
lend to municipalities under the same conditions as the project. Their capitalization was
based on: (a) the spread between the rate charged to the province and that charged to
municipalities; and (b) the shorter maturity of the loans given to the municipalities
compared to that of the provincial subsidiary loan. However, these Funds failed to be
capitalized as expected due to overly conservative management, in terms both of the
conditions applied to municipal subloans and of the use of the Funds. With the exception
of C6rdoba, the provinces have limited the use of these Funds to repayment of the
provincial subsidiary loans. With the inflow of significant provincial revenue-sharing
funds, C6rdoba instead has effectively used its Municipal Fund to finance a parallel
portfolio of municipal subprojects as large as the Bank project itself
E.    Bank Performance
23.   Project Identification: Satisfactory.   The Bank correctly diagnosed and
identified the need for institutional strengthening and sustainable financing mechanisms at
the municipal level as a way of supporting the larger national objectives of improved
public management and enhanced resource mobilization. It also managed to capitalize on
the Government's increasing awareness of the need to reform at all levels of government.
However, it is unlikely that these two national objectives would have been considerably
advanced with a project like the MDP-I if the highly unstable macroeconomic conditions
prevailing at the time had not changed.
24.   Project Preparation: Satisfactory. During preparation, the Bank identified some
of the key issues to be addressed to achieve project success. The main objectives of the
project were to be achieved by a clearly defined set of eligibility criteria. The Bank also
allowed for a high level of flexibility in terms of the specific investments to be financed as
a way of maximizing the project's attractiveness to municipalities, and envisioned an
active role for the participating municipalities. The Bank worked in close partnership with
each participating province in the preparation of the project, which resulted in a high level
of provincial "ownership" of the project. However, the low demand for project funds
during the years prior to the Convertibility Law suggests that the project would not have
performed well in the absence of the drastic set of reforms that were later implemented by
the Argentine Government.
25.   Project Appraisal: During appraisal, the Bank took into account the various
risks that could affect the project and set up mechanisms within the project to mitigate
them. The Bank also set up agile and innovative mechanisms to facilitate the supervision
of the project, relying on private auditing firms and enhancing provincial autonomy and



9
responsibilities. However, from a macroeconomic standpoint the Bank's performance at
appraissal was deficient, as the project was allowed to move forward despite the chaotic
macroeconomic conditions prevailing at the time. In addition, the Bank was somewhat
too optimistic about the pace at which the project could be implemented, including the
time required to pass the required provincial legislation, build up the capacity of the
Provincial Executing Units (PEUs) to the level required to implement such a complex
project, and put in place a pipeline of subprojects.  More importantly, the Bank
underestimated the importance of a stable macroeconomic environment in making the
incentives built into the project attractive among sub-borrowers.
26.   Project Supervision:  Satisfactory.   The Bank worked closely with the
Borrower to overcome the initial sluggishness in the implementation of the project. It
actively adopted corrective measures when necessary, such as increasing the share of Bank
financing, adopting more flexible creditworthiness criteria, and extending the closing date
of the project. Given the decentralized approach of the project and its strong emphasis on
provincial autonomy, a more direct supervision of the PEUs' activities would have been
necessary, including placing more emphasis on the timely submission of provincial
performance reports. It appears that the Bank relied on the Central Coordinating Unit
(CCU) to carry out the supervision of the PEUs, a strategy that proved to be wrong, given
the limited role the CCU had been assigned. While the performance of individual
supervision missions was satisfactory, these missions were not as frequent as warranted.
A set of project monitoring indicators would have facilitated project supervision as well as
early identification of deviations from the project's objectives, such as in the area of cost
recovery.
F.    Borrower Performance
27.   Preparation of the Project: Highly Satisfactory. Participating provinces played
a very active role in the preparation of the project. Each province was responsible not
only for contributing its views to the project design but for drafting its own Project
Manual, bidding, and contracting documents. The strong involvement of the provinces at
this stage of preparation helped to enhance project design.
28.   Project Implementation: Satisfactory. The project had a Central Coordinating
Unit at the central level and a Provincial Executing Unit at each of the five participating
provinces. The CCU acted as the liaison between the provinces, the Federal Government,
and the Bank, in accordance to the role that originally had been envisaged. Performance
of the CCU was highly effective in the negotiation of subsidiary loan agreements with
participating provinces and in controlling reimbursements to the project's special account.
It also complied with the submission of the annual independent audits, although this was
typically completed only after significant delays. The CCU produced consolidated
performance reports until March 1993, with a decline in the performance of its reporting
functions subsequently. It appears that reporting requirements had been loosened up by
the Bank based on the outstanding performance up to that time, although the agreement
was never formalized.



10
29.   The performance of the PEUs has been critical to the success of the project. They
were directly responsible for the design, implementation and supervision of the project, as
well as for providing guidance and technical assistance to municipalities. In general, the
PEUs fulfilled their responsibilities as defined under the project agreement and the project
operation manual. They also complied with their requirement to produce semi-annual
performance reports, although, as in the case of the CCU, this compliance weakened after
1993.  Overall, the PEUs were staffed with competent and dedicated staff who were
strongly committed to the principles of the project. They implemented and supervised the
project according to the operation manuals with very little supervision on the part of the
CCU or the Bank, and were the primary agents of institutional strengthening at the
municipal level. Their main shortcoming has been the lack of monitoring of cost recovery,
with the exception of Santa Fe. As could be expected, strong provincial support was
critical to the performance of the PEUs, as it influenced both the resources available and
their political leverage. However, the PEUs with strong political support were more
vulnerable to changes in the political environment, generally experiencing isolation or
considerable staff changes under the next administration.
30.   Compliance with Covenants:  Less than Satisfactory.  On the whole,
compliance with legal covenants was satisfactory. Over the life of the project, compliance
was met, but with significant delays. Although there are some covenants with a poor
record of compliance. This non-compliance, in some cases, was apparently due to
informal agreements with the Bank, whereby several items to be submitted to the Bank
were judged to be unnecessary in the latter part of the project implementation. This was
the case with some of the bi-annual provincial performance audits, the CCU's
consolidated reports of such audits, and the Annual Investment Programs after all the loan
proceeds had been committed. These agreements, of course, should have been formalized.
All other covenants were satisfactorily met.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
31.   Overall Rating: Satisfactory. On the whole, the project objectives have been
satisfactorily met. The project widely promoted reform among the many participating
municipalities.  Confirming the expectations underlying the project's design, local
authorities have been willing to respond to most of the requirements and participation
criteria of the project, including subproject design, evaluation and bidding processes, to
obtain financing for physical investments. In this way, the project has built considerable
institutional capacity through the adoption of more sound and efficient practices, as well
as strengthened   municipal capacity to identify, evaluate, and implement physical
investments. There is already evidence that these practices are being expanded to other
municipal activities outside the project, including alternative cost-recovery initiatives and
the use of the same bidding documents in other investments. The project also has
supported municipalities in devising adequate mechanisms for cost recovery among direct
beneficiaries. It also established a financing mechanism (Municipal Development Funds)
in each of the participating provinces that, if adequately managed, can ensure the sustained
replicability of the project over the long run.



11
32.   It is important to note that the project was likely to be most effective in
introducing and extending reforms in those municipalities that already were most fiscally
responsible and prone to reform. Eligibility criteria stressing municipal creditworthiness
and other project conditionalities are likely to have operated as a self-selection mechanism,
promoting the participation of the best performing municipalities. Far from this being a
shortcoming, the project provided a framework that is consistent with the main lesson
learned from  lending for reform  worldwide:  willingness to reform  on the part of
subnational governments is a pre-condition for success. As these municipalities continue
to demonstrate the feasibility of cost recovery and the benefits from sound municipal
practices, reform is likely to extend to other municipalities.
33.   With regard to promoting structured consultations between municipal and
provincial authorities in relation to investment plans, the PEUs successfully served as
interfaces. While respecting the high level of autonomy that municipalities are conferred
under Argentina's Constitution, the PEUs have helped municipal authorities and technical
staff in the selection of investment subprojects within the framework of technical and
financial requirements imposed by the project's eligibility criteria. Over the life of the
project, participating municipalities have developed a close working relationship with the
PEUs, relying on them for technical assistance. In this way, municipal authorities have
enhanced the way in which they select specific investments, complementing their intuition,
political wit, and first-hand knowledge of the needs of their municipalities with sound
technical criteria, such as financial feasibility.
H.    Future Operations
34.   Based on the experience from this project, there are several relevant lessons to be
learned.  Most of these lessons have already been or are in the process of being
incorporated into the Second Municipal Development Project (MDP-II, Ln. 3836-AR):
a)    Greater emphasis should  be placed  on  cost-recovery  design  and
implementation. The PEUs should evaluate not only the design of cost
recovery  measures  but  also  their  implementation.    Successful
implementation of cost recovery mechanisms should be made a condition
for subsequent borrowing by municipalities. Also, components aimed at
improving collection rates of other municipal revenues should be at the
core of institutional strengthening subprojects. It is important to note that
in the case of MDP-I, the Loan Agreement did not reflect the importance
that cost recovery was given in the SAR, thus limiting the Bank's ability to
legally enforce its compliance. This deficiency was corrected for MDP-II.
b)    Any agreement affecting project covenants should be formally recorded.
This is particularly important as task managers, on the part of both the
Borrower and the Bank, may change over the life of the project.
c)    An interim  financing mechanism between payment to contractors and
actual disbursement should be devised to relieve some of the financial



12
pressure on the municipalities.  Currently, disbursement arrangements
require municipalities to present SOEs.  This requirement resulted in
considerable financial stress on municipalities, since most of them do not
have the cash flow required to finance payments to contractors until the
receipt of disbursed funds, particularly in the case of the purchase of
equipment. This introduced irregularities in the payment to contractors,
and, in one case, a municipality had to delay the payment of its own payroll
to meet its obligations to a contractor.
d)    Greater emphasis must be placed on technical assistance and training
subprojects under institutional strengthening components. Municipalities
should also be encouraged to carry out institutional diagnosis and prepare
financial action plans to improve their fiscal situation, possibly with the
support of institutional strengthening subprojects. The PEUs could also
capitalize on potential economies of scale and explore alternative solutions
to problems that are common to many municipalities.
e)    The role of the CCU and PEUs as information clearinghouses should be
emphasized. In general, executing units have not capitalized on their
competitive advantage to promote cross-fertilization and the dissemination
of best practices among provinces and municipalities.
f)    A set of performance indicators should be developed to monitor the
achievement of the project's objectives.  Performance indicators are
particularly important in this type of project, which takes a long time to
implement and whose impact is highly related to other variables, especially
macroeconomic ones.
g)    The role of the CCU has been strengthened. Given the high number of
participating provinces under MDP-11, the CCU was assigned a stronger
management role and a more direct supervision of the PEUs activities. A
stronger CCU was necessary also to provide needed technical assistance to
the PEUs of the newly incorporated provinces.
h)    Operation manuals and other project documents have been normalized
across provinces. There is a tradeoff between provincial autonomy and
consequent ownership and implementation efficiency. With only five
participating provinces, it was possible under MDP-I to have each province
draft its own operation manual and other project documents. This was no
longer possible with the 13 provinces participating in MDP-11.
i)    Potential synergies with other entities, such as the International Finance
Corporation (IFC), should be maximized. IFC's strategy for Latin America
and the Caribbean includes the promotion of private sector participation in
the delivery of services. Among other municipal investments worldwide,
IFC co-financed the privatization of municipal water and sewerage services



13
in Limeira, Brazil, in 1996. IFC's strategy is highly consistent with the
objectives of MDP-I and II, for which there is the potential for increased
synergies between the Bank and IFC through the M[DP-II, possibly by
simply increasing awareness of IFC financing instruments and requirements
among the CCU and PEU staff.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
35.   Portfolio loans can be effective tools in lending for reform.  This project
demonstrates that portfolio loans can effectively combine wholesale lending and lending
for reform. By combining a few, clearly-defined eligibility criteria with a high level of
flexibility in terms of specific subprojects, the project effectively balanced the need to
guarantee the achievement of its reform objectives while maximizing its attractiveness
among potential sub-borrowers.
36.   Do not lend into macroeconomic chaos. An important lesson from Argentina is
not to lend under highly unstable macroeconomic conditions like the ones prevailing in
Argentina during 1987-88, which eventually led to hyperinflation and macroeconomic
chaos. The low level of disbursements over the first years of the project suggests that the
loan would not have performed well if the Convertibility Law had not been passed and
macroeconomic stability restored.
37.   Physical investment loans cannot substitute for adequate policy incentives.
The funding available through physical investment loans does not provide sufficient
incentives for municipalities to reform in and of itself This project was highly effective in
rewarding and supporting the reform efforts of reform-minded municipalities, rather than
in inducing reforms in unreceptive municipalities. An adequate system of incentives, both
at the provincial and municipal levels, are prerequisites for broader municipal reform. At
the provincial level, discretionary grants need to be removed and the revenue-sharing
transfer system needs to reward fiscally responsible behavior and efficiency.  At the
municipal level, incentives should come from local constituencies that hold elected officials
accountable for management of their public resources. In the case of Argentina, adequate
incentives are slowly developing, as discretionary grants are increasingly being reduced
because of tight provincial budgets, and democratic mechanisms continue to mature.
38.   An important role for subnational governments is critical to the success of
the project.   Although the lack of adequate provincial and municipal technical and
institutional capacity may result in initial project bottlenecks, their enhanced
responsibilities within the project contribute to strong "hands-on" capacity-building, both
at the provincial and municipal levels, and fosters their sense of ownership of the project.
39.   Keep subproject requirements within reasonable bounds.  Since individual
subprojects are generally small, it is important not to overdimension preparation and
evaluation requirements. Excessive requirements unduly increase the cost of borrowing
and promote the unnecessary use of private consultants, which diminishes the potential for
"in-house" capacity-building.



14
40.   Simplify as much as possible all review, procurement, and disbursement
procedures. To effectively conduct a wholesale lending operation, it is critical to rely on
agile review, procurement, and implementation procedures. Given the large number of
subprojects --over 700 subprojects in the case of MDP-I-- and the vast number of related
documents, such as bidding documents, contracts, and terms of reference, that are
characteristic of portfolio subprojects, simplified procedures are critical to avoid potential
administrative bottlenecks and undue burdens on both the Borrower and the Bank staff.
Bank requirements for procurement and disbursement usually reflect practices that are
more appropriate for traditional projects than for portfolio loans.
41.   Some supervision functions can be privatized successfully. In the case of
MDP-I, some of the supervision of the project executing units and the supervision of some
works was contracted out to the private sector. The experience was quite successful and
significantly reduced the supervision burden on the Borrower and the Bank
42.   Do not expect municipal portfolio projects to disburse quickly and easily at
first.   Municipal portfolio projects like MDP-I need to be designed with longer
implementation periods to take into consideration the complex institutional framework of
subnational governments and the complexity of implementation characteristic of portfolio
loans.



15
Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1:             Summary of Assessment ....................                   ........... 16
Table 2:             Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............................                 18
Table 3:             Project Timetable ...............................                         19
Table 4:            Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................. 19
Table 5A:            Project Costs ............................... 20
Table 5B:            Project Financing ............................... 20
Table 6:             Status of Legal Covenants ...............................                  21
Table 7:             Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ............................... 27
Table 8:             BankResources: Missions.....- ....                                        28
Table 9:            Project Portfolio by Type of Subproject    ................... 29
Table 10:            Physical Investments by Type of Subproject ............. 30
Table 11:            Purchases of Equipment by Type .............................  31
Table  12:           Rate of Provincial Participation ............................... 32
Table  13:           Rate of Municipal Participation  ............................... 33
Table 14:            Repayment of Municipal Subloans   ........................... 34
Table 15:            Cost Recovery from  Direct Beneficiaries .................. 35



16
Table 1
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives         Substantial     Partial      Negligible       Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                   Q
Sector Policies                                              _    _ _
Financial Objectives                                1X1
Institutional Development             Q
Physical Objectives                   I1    __
Poverty Reduction                                            . _     _ _
Gender Issues                                                             _      I
Other Social Objectives                                                          Q
Environmental Objectives                           __
Public Sector Management                       ___
Private Sector Development                     _             _
O ther__ _ _ _ _ _                                                         _ _ _ _   _ _
B. Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability                Likely      |    Unlikely           Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                      Highly          Satisfactory         Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                              1__
Preparation Assistance
Appraisals
Sectoral-Technical Aspects
Macroeconomic Aspects         ___
Supervision                                                la
5      The Bank's performance was satisfactory with respect to the sector design and technical aspects
of project identification and preparation. However, from a macroeconomic standpoint, the Bank's
performance at appraisal was deficient, as the project was allowed to move forward despite the chaotic
macroeconomic conditions prevailing at the time.



17
D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory |    Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                          III
Implementation                                             19
Covenant Compliance         __                              _6
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of Outcome         Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
6      Although the borrower complied with all covenants, compliance with two important covenants
was always late: the submission of the Audit Reports and the submission of the Project Progress Reports.
In fact, the Borrower stopped submitting Progress Reports for almost two years.



18
Table 2
Related Bank Loans/Credits
Ioan      Purpose                       1 Amount   Year of                      Status
Loan                        PurMse                           (US$ ND      Approval]        (As of March 9, 1997)
Preceding Operations
L     _        _   _        _       T                                       T____ _ ]   I  _     _ I   ____
Subsequent Operations                                                                                                                  l
Provincial Development I            To provide financial support and incentives  200.0     1990      Scheduled to close December 1997.
(Ln. 3280-AR)                       for provinces to undertake their own                             Undisbursed balance US$65.2 M.
adjustment programs (own-source revenue
enhancement and expenditure control)
consistent with the national adjustment
program.
Second Municipal Development        To contribute to more effective public sector    210.0  1995     Loan declared effective December
(Ln. 3860-AR)                       management at the provincial and municipal                       1995. Undisbursed balance
levels through improved financing                               US$202.8 M.
mechanisms for municipal investments; to
achieve more effective fiscal federalism by
strengthening the municipalities' capacity to
assume the responsibilities being transferred
to them.
Provincial Reform (Ln. 3836-AR)     Support the Federal Government's efforts to  300.0     1995      Undisbursed balance US$0.4 M.
promote the reform of provincial finances.
To deepen the fiscal reforms underlying
macroeconomic stability and enhance the
capacity of the provincial governments to
fulfill their increasingly important role as
providers of public goods and services.                                                            l
Provincial Development 11           To continue to provide financial support and  225.0    1995      Loan declared effective June 1996.
(Ln. 3877-AR)                       incentives for provinces to undertake their                      Undisbursed balance US$224.5M.
own public sector reform programs
consistent with the national program.



19
Table 3
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned        Actual Date/or
Duration
Identification (Initial Executive                      10/17186
Project Summary)
Preparation                                          Seven months
Appraisal                                              11/10/87
Negotiations                                          02/08/88
Board Presentation                                    03/22/88
Signing                                                11/29/88
Effectiveness                                         03/03/89
|Loan closing                     06/30/95            03/31/96
Table 4
Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94   FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate      5     14.7    33    58.8   81.8  100.8  116.9    120
Actual                  0      5       5     5.95   17.65  47.82  95.74   115.07   119.78
Actual as % of estimate       34%    15%    10%    22%    47%    82%       96%
Date of final disbursement: June 5, 1996



20
Table 5A
Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual (US$M)
Item                  Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Costs     Costs              Costs    Costs
A. Infrastructure                    98.3      42.0     140.3   104.4      44.6    149.0
B. Community Facilities              12.8       5.2      18.0      2.4      1.0      3.4
C. Project Design and Supervision     9.4       1.7      11.1    15.5       2.8     18.3
D. Equipment and Vehicles             4.8      18.8      23.6      3.0      11.8    14.8
E. Technical Assistance and Training  6.7       3.4      10.1      2.5      1.3      3.8
Contingencies                        24.0      12.9      36.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total                               156.0      84.0    240.0   127.8       61.5    189.3
'Bible 5B
Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual estimate (US$M)
Source        Local     Foreign     Total     Local      Foreign     Total
costs      costs                costs      costs
IBRD                36.0       84.0      120.0      58.2       61.5       119.7
Provinces          32.0         0         32.0      16.1        0.0       16.1
Municipalities      88.0        0         88.0      53.5       0.0.       53.5
Total              156.0       84.0      240.0      127.8      61.5       189.3



21
Table 6
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement         Section     Type of    Present                  Description of Covenant                        Comments
._______    Covenant    Status
Loan Agreement     Section           3          C       The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a  Complied.
2.02(b)                             special account.
Section          5          C       The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995.           Closing Date was extended to
2.03                                                                                   March 31, 1996. Complied.
Section          3          C       The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to  Complied.
3.01 (b) (c)                       the provinces under subsidiary loan agreements. After
three years from the date of this Agreement (March 1,
1992) the Borrower shall reallocate the undisbursed and
uncommitted amount of the Loan amount the provinces.
Section         5,4          C      The Borrower shall maintain a National Liaison Unit in    Complied.
3.03 (a) (b)                       the Secretariat of Housing and Environmental
Management of the Ministry of Public Works and Social
Affairs and provide the funds, facilities and resources
needed to carry out its functions efficiently.
Section          9          CD      Not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year,   Last progress report submitted
3.04                                the Borrower shall prepare and send to the Bank a report  12/22/95. Between 1993 and
on the execution of the project.                   1995 there were no progress
reports.
Section          10        NYD    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank    Due March 31, 1997.
3.05                                through the National Liaison Unit a consolidated
completion report.
Section         1,2         C       The Borrower shall maintain separate records and    Complied.
4.01 (a)                            accounts reflecting all deposits and payments made into
and from the Special Account and enable the Bank's
representative to examine such records.
Section          I          CD      The Borrower shall have all records and accounts for  Complied with delay. No major
4.01 (b)                            each fiscal year audited by independent auditors   observations.
acceptable to the Bank and send to the Bank, not later
than four months after the end of each year, the audit
reports.
Schedule 5       3          C       The amount of the loan shall be relent to the Provinces    Complied. Actual amounts by
as fbllowa:                                        Province:
Buenos Aires - 55 million                         Buenos Aires - 48.5 million
Cordoba - 21 million                              Cordoba - 31.3 million
La Pampa - 3.5 million                            La Pampa - 13 million
Neuquen - 9.5 million                             Neuquen - 5.2 million
Santa Fe - 31 million                             Santa Fe - 22 million
Total 120 million                                 Total 120 million
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/Audits                                     8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from         9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                       10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                    covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                                 11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 - Management aspects of the project                        budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                      allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                             12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                                 regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = Not complied with



22
Agreement         Section       TIpe of     Present                  Description of Covenant                          Comments
Covenant    Status
Santa Fe Project    Section           4           C       Santa Fe shall carry out the project with diligence and  Complied.
Agreement           2.01 (a)                              shall provide the funds. facilities, services and other
resources required for the project.
Section           3           C       Santa Fe shall select eligible municipalities and     Complied.
2.01 (b)                              subprojects, enter into sub-loan agreements and procure
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan, maintain records, approve annual investments
and carry out activities in accordance with this
agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
Section           3           C       Santa Fe shall make subloans to eligible municipalities to   Complied.
2.01 (d)                              finance the execution of sub-projects as set forth in the
Project Operations Manual.
Section           5           C       Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Buenos Aires   Complied.
2.01 (e)                              shall not amend, abrogate, waive, fail to enforce or
repeal the Project Operation Manual, the Sub-Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section          5,4          C       Santa Fe shall maintain the PEU for coordinating,     Complied.
2.02 (a)                              supervising the execution of the project and provide the
PEU with staff, funds and resources for carrying out its
.________________  functions until the final completion report.
Section           2          CP       On Sept. 30 of each year Santa Fe shall prepare and   No new investment programs
2.03 (a)                              furnish to the Bank an annual investment program for  were prepared for 1994 and
the following year which should include municipal     1995, as funds were fully
investment projects which meet the eligibility criteria set   committed with the 1993
forth in the Project Operation Manual.               Investment Program.
Section           2           C       Santa Fe shall maintain the Municipal Development     Complied.
2.04 (a)                              Fund and shall contribute into such fund all the proceeds
collected as principal, interest, and other charges on sub-
__________________  _ __________                loans.
Section           2           C       Santa Fe shall manage the loan proceeds in accordance    Complied.
2.04 (b)                              with appropriate financial and administrative practices
satisfactory to the Bank and use the proceeds to make
subsidiary loan payments, finance new investments,
including technical assistance and training programs.
Section           6           C       Santa Fe shall cause the eligible sub-projects to be  Complied.
2.05                                  carried out with due regard to ecological and
environmental concerns, as provided in the Project
Operations Manual.
Section           3           C       Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services  Complied.
2.06                                  required for the project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement.
Section           9          CD       (i) Santa Fe shall have the records and accounts for each   Complied with delay. No major
3.01 (b)                              fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to   observations made.
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank not later than four
months after the end of the fiscal year, the report of such
audits; (iii) furnish to the Bank that audit report, as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
Section           I          CP       Santa Fe shall ask auditors to issue every six months a  Bank received as part of the
3.02 (a)(i)                           performance report regarding the compliance by the    annual audit. Performance
municipalities and agencies responsible for carrying out   report satisfactory to the Bank.
the project and a report on the accounts and financial  However, this is received
situation of the Municipal Development fund. Santa Fe    annually, not bi-annually.
should send these reports to the Bank no later than 60
days from the date they are issued.



23
Agreement          Section      Type of     Present                   Description of Covenant                           Comments
Covenant    Status
Buenos Aires        Section            4           C       Buenos Aires shall carry out the project with diligence and    Complied.
Project Agreement   2.01 (a)                               shall provide the funds. facilities, services and other
resources required for the project.
Section           3           C       Buenos Aires shall select eligible municipalities and   Complied.
2.01 (b)                              subprojects, enter into sub-loan agreements and procure
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan, maintain records, approve annual investments and
carry out activities in accordance with this agreement and
the Project Operations Manual.
Section           3           C       Buenos Aires shall make subloans to eligible municipalities   Complied.
2.01 (d)                              to finance the execution of sub-projects as set forth in the
Project Operations Manual.
Section          5,4          C       Buenos Aires shall maintain the PEU for coordinating,   Complied.
2.02 (a)                              supervising the execution of the project and provide the
PEU with staff, funds and resources for carrying out its
functions until the final completion report.
Section           2          CP       On Sept. 30 of each year Buenos Aires shall prepare and  No new investment programs
2.03 (a)                              furnish to the Bank an annual investment program for the  were prepared for 1994 and
following year which should include municipal investment    1995, as funds were fully
projects which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the  committed with the 1993
Project Operation Manual.                               Investment Program.
Section           2           C       Buenos Aires shall maintain the Municipal Development   Complied.
2.04 (a)                              Fund and shall contribute into such fund all the proceeds
collected as principal, interest, and other charges on sub-
loans.
Section           2           C       Buenos Aires shall manage the loan proceeds in accordance   Complied.
2.04 (b)                              with appropriate financial and administrative practices
satisfactory to the Bank and use the proceeds to make
subsidiary loan payments, finance new investments,
including technical assistance and training programs.
Section           6           C       Buenos Aires shall cause the eligible sub-projects to be  Complied.
2.05                                  carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
concerns, as provided in the Project Operations Manual.
Section           3           C       Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services   Complied.
2.06                                  required for the project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
__________               XSchedule 6 of the Loan Agreement.
Section           5           C       Buenos Aires shall exchange views with the Bank with    Complied.
2.09 (a) (b)                          regard to the progress of the project and shall inform the
Bank of any condition which interferes with the
performance of the project.
Section           9          CD       (i) Buenos Aires shall have the records and accounts for  Complied with delay. No
3.01 (b)                              each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable    major observations made.
to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank not later than four
months after the end of the fiscal year, the report of such
audits; (iii) furnish to the Bank that audit report, as the
._______   __ Bank shall reasonably request.
Section           I          CP       Buenos Aires shall ask auditors to issue every six months a   Bank received as part of the
3.02 (a)(i)                           performance report regarding the compliance by the      annual audit. Performance
municipalities and agencies responsible for carrying out the   report satisfactory to the
project and a report on the accounts and financial situation    Bank. However, this is
of the Municipal Development fund. Buenos Aires should   received annually, not bi-
send these reports to the Bank no later than 60 days from  annually.
the date they are issued.                              I        _I



24
Agreement    Section       Type of     Present                        Description of Covenant                               Comments
Covenant      Status
La Pampa       Section         4           C        La Pampa shall carry out the project with diligence and shall provide   Complied.
Project        2.01 (a)                            the funds. facilities, services and other resources required for the
Agreement                                           project.
Section        3            C       La Pampa shall select eligible municipalities and subprojects, enter  Complied.
2.01 (b)                            into sub-loan agreements and procure goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the loan, maintain records, approve
annual investments and carry out activities in accordance with this
agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
Section        3            C       La Pampa shall make subloans to eligible municipalities to finance  Complied.
2.01 (d)                            the execution of sub-projects as set forth in the Project Operations
Manual.
Section        10           C       La Pampa shall not amend, abrogate, waive, fail to enforce or repeal    Complied.
2.01 (e)                            the Project Operations Manual, the Sub-Loan Agreements, or any
provision thereof.
Section       5,4           C       La Pampa shall maintain the PEU for coordinating, supervising the  Complied.
2.02 (a)                            execution of the project and provide the PEU with staff, funds and
resources for carrying out its functions until the final completion
report.
Section        2           CP       On Sept. 30 of each year La Pampa shall prepare and furnish to the  No new investment programs
2.03 (a)                            Bank an annual investment program for the following year which    were prepared for 1994 and
should include municipal investment projects which meet the      1995, as funds were fully
eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Operation Manual.  committed with the 1993
____________   l_______                                                                                              Investment Proiram.
Section        2            C       La Pampa shall maintain the Municipal Development Fund and shall   Complied.
2.04 (a)                            contribute into such fund all the proceeds collected as principal,
_________                            interest, and other charges on sub-loans.
Section        2            C       La Pampa shall manage the loan proceeds in accordance with        Complied.
2.04 (b)                            appropriate financial and administrative practices satisfactory to the
Bank and use the proceeds to make subsidiary loan payments, finance
new investments, including technical assistance and training
Drograms.                                              _
Section        2            C       La Pampa shall manage the Municipal Development Fund in           Complied.
2.04 (c)                            accordance with appropriate financial and administrtive practices.
Section        6            C       La Pampa shall cause the eligible sub-projects to be carried out with    Complied.
2.05                                due regard to ecological and environmental concerns, as provided in
the Project Operations Manual.
Section        3            C       Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for  Complied.
2.06                                the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, shall
I____________                        be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement.
Section        10           C       La Pampa shall inform the Bank of any condition which interferes  Complied.
2.09 (b)                            with the progress of the project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by La Pampa of its obligations under
this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section       3,2           C       La Pampa shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate to  Complied.
3.01 (a)                            reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect to the
PEU, the municipalities and other agencies responsible for carryirg
out the project.
Section        9           CD       (i) La Pampa shall have the records and accounts for each fiscal year   Complied with delay. No
3.01 (b)                            audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to   major observations made.
the Bank not later than four months after the end of the fiscal year,
the report of such audits; (iii) furnish to the Bank that audit report, as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section        1,9          C       For expenditures for which withdrawals from the Loan Account were
3.01 (c)                            made using SOE, La Pampa, through the PEU, shall (i) maintain
(i)&(ii)                            separate records and accounts of these expenses; (ii) retain all records
for these expenses for at least one year; (iii) enable the Bank to
examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records are included
in the annual audit report.
Section        1           CP       (a) Auditors shall issue every six months a performance report on  Bank received as part of the
3.02                                compliance by the Municipalities of La Pampa and its agencies and a   annual audit. However, this
(a)(b)                              report on the financial situation of the Municipal Development Fund;   is received annually, not bi-
(b) La Pampa shall furnish to the Bank copies of the reports     annually.
mentioned on (a) not later than 60 days from the date they are issued.



25
Agreement    Section      Type of     Present                      Description of Covenant                            Comments
Covenant     status
Cordoba        Section        3           C       Cordoba shall make subloans to eligible municipalities to finance    Complied.
Project        2.01 (d)                           the execution of sub-projects as set forth in the Project Operations
Agreement                                         Manual.
Section        5           C       (a) Cordoba shall maintain the PEU for purposes of coordinating,    Complied.
2.02 (a)                           supervision and participating in the execution of the project until
(b)                                the issuance of the final completion report. (b) Cordoba shall not
amend, repeal or abrogate the Law 7715, dated November 1, 1988
that established the PEU.
Section        3          CP       Cordoba, through PEU, shall fumish to the Bank for approval a  No new investment programs
2.03 (a)                           detailed annual investment program for the next calendar year not   were prepared for 1994 and
later than September 30 of each year.                        1995, as funds were fully
committed with the 1993
Investment Program.
Section       10,3         C       If significant deficiencies are noted by audit and management  Complied.
2.03 (b)                           reports or supervision of the project, Cordoba should include a
technical assistance plan designed by the PEU for these purposes.
Section        2           C       Cordoba shall maintain the Municipal Development Fund and shall  Complied.
2.04 (a)                           contribute into such fund all the proceeds collected as principal,
interest, and other charges on sub-loans.
Section        2           C       Cordoba shall manage the loan proceeds in accordance with    Complied.
2.04 (b)                           appropriate financial and administrative practices satisfactory to the
____________        =Bank.
Section        2           C       Cordoba shall manage the Municipal Development Fund in       Complied.
2.04 (c)                           accordance with appropriate financial and administrative practices.
Section        6           C       Cordoba shall cause the eligible sub-projects to be carried out with   Complied.
2.05                               due regard to ecological and environmental concerns, as provided
in the Project Operations Manual.
Section        3           C       Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for  Complied.
2.06                               the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 of the Loan
=___________           _Agreement.
Section        5           C       Cordoba shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary   Complied.
2.08                               Loan Agreement and shall not take or concur in any action that
would amend, abrogate, assign or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section       10           C       Cordoba shall inform the Bank of any condition which interferes    Complied.
2.09 (b)                           with the progress of the project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Cordoba of its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
.______   Agreement.
Section       3,2          C       Cordoba shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate to    Complied.
3.01 (a)                           reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect to the
PEU, the municipalities and other agencies responsible for
carryirg out the project.
Section        9          CD       (i) Cordoba shall have the records and accounts for each fiscal  Complied with delay. No
3.01 (b)                           year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)  major observations made.
furnish to the Bank not later than four months after the end of the
fiscal year, the report of such audits; (iii) furnish to the Bank that
audit report, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section       1,9          C       For expenditures for which withdrawals from the Loan Account
3.01 (c)                           were made using SOE, Cordoba, through the PEU, shall (i)
maintain separate records and accounts of these expenses; (ii)
retain all records for these expenses for at least one year; (iii)
enable the Bank to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such
.___________    _______   __________   ____ _  records are included  in the annual audit report.
Section        1          CP       (a) Auditors shall issue every six months a performance report on    Bank received as part of the
3.02                               compliance by the Municipalities of Cordoba and its agencies and    annual audit. However, this
(a)(b)                             a report on the financial situation of the Municipal Development    is received annually, not bi-
Fund; (b) Cordoba shall furnish to the Bank copies of the reports    annually.
mentioned on (a) not later than 60 days from the date they are
issued.



26
Agreement    Section       Type of     Present                       Description of Covenant                              Comments
Covenant      Status
Neuquen        Section         3           C        Neuquen shall make subloans to eligible municipalities to finance    Complied.
Project        2.01 (d)                             the execution of sub-projects as set forth in the Project Operations
Agreement                                           Manual.
Section       5,4           C       (a) Neuquen shall maintain the PEU for purposes of coordinating,   Complied.
2.02 (a)                            supervising and participating in the execution of the project until
(b)                                 the issuance of the final completion report.
(b) Neuquen shall not amend, repeal or abrogate the Law 7715,
dated November 1, 1998 that established the PEU.
Section        3           CP       Neuquen, through PEU, shall furnish to the Bank for approval a  No new investment programs
2.03 (a)                            detailed annual investment program for the next calendar year not   were prepared for 1994 and
later than September 30 of each year.                          1995, as funds were fully
committed with the 1993
Investment Program.
Section       10,3          C       If significant deficiencies are noted by audit and management  Complied.
2.03 (b)                            reports or supervision of the project, Neuquen should include a
technical assistance plan designed by the PEU for these purposes.
Section        2            C       Neuquen shall maintain the Municipal Development Fund and      Complied.
2.04 (a)                            shall contribute into such fund all the proceeds collected as
principal, interest, and other charges on sub-loans.
Section        2            C       Neuquen shall manage the loan proceeds in accordance with      Complied.
2.04 (b)                            appropriate financial and administrative practices satisfactory to the
Bank and use the proceeds to make subsidiary loan payments,
finance new investments, including technical assistance and
training programs.
Section        2            C       Neuquen shall manage the Municipal Development Fund in         Complied.
2.04 (c)                            accordance with appropriate financial and administrative practices.
Section        6            C       Neuquen shall cause the eligible sub-projects to be carried out with   Complied.
2.05                                due regard to ecological and environmental concems, as provided
in the Project Operations Manual.
Section        3            C       Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services required for  Complied.
2.06                                the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 of the Loan
Agreement.
Section        5            C       Neuquen shall dully perform all its obligations under the      Complied.
2.08                                Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or concur in any
action that would amend, abrogate, assign or waive the Subsidiary
_________     Loan Agreement.
Section        10           C       Neuquen shall inform the Bank of any condition which interferes    Complied.
2.09 (b)                            with the progress of the project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Neuquen of its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section        9           CD       (i) Neuquen shall have the records and accounts for each fiscal  Complied with delay. No
3.01 (b)                            year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)  major observations made.
furnish to the Bank not later than four months after the end of the
fiscal year, the report of such audits; (iii) furnish to the Bank that
audit report, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section        1,9          C       For expenditures for which withdrawals from the Loan Account
3.01 (c)                            were made using SOE, Neuquen, through the PEU, shall (i)
maintain separate records and accounts of these expenses; (ii)
retain all records for these expenses for at least one year; (iii)
enable the Bank to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such
records are included in the annual audit report.
Section        I           CP       (a) Auditors shall issue every six months a performance report on    Bank received as part of the
3.02 (a)                            compliance by the Municipalities of Neuquen and its agencies and    annual audit. However, this
a report on the financial situation of the Municipal Development    is received annually, not bi-
Fund; (b) Neuquen shall furnish to the Bank copies of the reports   annually.
mentioned on (a) not later than 60 days from the date they are
issued.



27
Table 7
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs /1
Stage of                       Actual
project cycle
Weeks        US$
Through appraisal             101.2        178.2
Appraisal-Board               11.4        22.0
Board-effectiveness            10.9         19.6
Supervision                128.0        367.2
Completion                  9.6          19.6
TOTAL                   261.1        610.0
' Includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.



28
Table 8
Missions
Stage of Project cycle    Month/         Number                 Specialized
year            of      Days in     staff skills           Performance rating
persons     field    represented 1/
Implementation     Development           Types of
Status          objectives          problemns
Through appraisal    October 1985           2          3           D,L
October 1986          4          7         A,B,L,M
March 1987            4         14         A,B,C,J
August 1987           4         14         A,B,C,J
Appraisal through    November 1987          1          5            A
Board approval
Board approval       August 1988            3         10           A,B
through effectiveness
Supervision          December 1988          2         10           AB                 1None
April 1991            3                     B,C,D               2                  1          None
July 1991             2          3           C,D                2                  1          None
May 1992              4          5         C,D,E,F              1                  2          None
November 1992         3         10          C,D,E               1                  1          None
September 1993        2          5           C,D                I                  I          None
May 1995              2          2           D,G                S                  S          None
June 1995             5         10         G,H,I,J,K            S                  S          None
December 1995         2         10           D,H                S                  S          None
Completion            December 1996         1         15            J                 -                  -
1/ Key to specialization:
A. Mission Leader
B. Institutional Specialist
C. Municipal Prov Specialist
D. Sr. Urban Specialist
E. Implementation Specialist
F. Procurement Specialist
G. Transport Specialist
H. Operations Analyst
1. Civil Engineer
J. Urban/Financial Specialist
K. Accountant/Financial Analyst
L. Principal Planner
M. Sr. Financial Planning Specialist
339933999



Table 9
Project Portfolio by Type of Subproject in All Participating Provinces
Type                            Number of              Total Amount                   IBRD Financing            Avg. Subproject        Beneficiaries
Subprojects    US$'000         %/ of Total        US$'000        %/ of Total           Size
ci-Il 1*1VOrs
Pavernent                             315          96,977         51.21%             66,768        55.74%                    308           1,362,607  *
Water                                   39          11,343         5.99%              7,291          6.09%                   291            369,164  *
Sewverage                               34         19,431         10.26%             13,220         11.04%                   572              83,470 
Drainage                                10          7,716          4.07%              5,430          4.53%                   772             131,779
Gas                                     19          12,132         6.41%              8,587          7.17%                   639              45,643  *
Street Lighting                          5           1,459         0.77%               983           0.82%                   292              28,341  *
Subtotal                              422         149,058         78.72%            102,279        85.38%                    353           2,021,003  *
Conmmldty Facilities
Subtotal                                25          3,353          1.77%              2,295         1.92%                    134              86,600
Equipment
Subtotal                              220          14,833          7.83%              9,812         8.19%                     67           1,808,461
Technical Assistance ***
NIunicipalities                         39           1,694         0.89%              1,385          1.16%                    43            623,553
PEUs                                   n.a.         2,073           1.09%             2,047          1.71%                   n.a.               n.a.
Subtotal                                39          3,767          1.99%              3,432         2.86%                    na.            623,553
Project Execution and Supervision
Auditing                               n.a.         2,063          1.09%              1,977          1.65%                   n.a.               n.a.
Provincial Executing Units             n.a.        16,050          8.48%                 0          0.00%                    n.a.               n.a.
Central Coordinating Unit              n.a.           240          0.13%                 0          0.00%                    n.a.               n.a.
Subtotal                              na.          18,353          9.69%              1,977         1.65%                    na.                iLa.
Grand Total                              706         189,363       100.00%            119,795       100.00%                    268           4,539,617
* Estimate based on average of other participating provinces.
** Does not include the Province of Buenos Aires
*" It includes only subprojects specifically designated as technical assistance. However, it is estimated that at least 50% of the costs of
the project executing units were used in providing technical assistance to the municipalities.



Table 10
Project Portfolio by Type of Subproject
All Participating Provinces
Physical Investments                                                                          Participating Provinces
by Type                             Buenos Aires                Cordoba                  La Pampa                  Neuquen                  Santa Fe                    All
US$'000   % of Total    US$'000   % of Total    US$'000   % of Total    US$'000   % of Total    USS'000   % of Total    US$'O0O    % of Total
Civil Works
Pavement                         39,011      56.6%        34,771      78.5%          5,894      33.6%         2,124      39.9%         15,177      48.8%        96,979       58.0%
Water                             7,134      10.3%         2,007       4.5%            118       0.7%           129       2.4%          1,955       6.3%        11,343        6.8%
Sewerage                          8,582      12.4%           860        1.9%           193       1.1 %          298       5.6%          9,498      30.5%/o      19,431       11.6%
Drainage                          1,752       2.5%           957        2.2%         4,884      27.8%             0        0.0%           123       0.4%         7,716        4.6%    U
Gas                               5,252       7.6%            80       0.2%          5,952      33.9%            97        1.8%          751        2.4o       12,132        7.3%     C
StreetLighting                     711        1.0%            94       0.2%              0       0.0%             0        0.0%          654        2.1 %        1,459        0.9%
Subtotal                         62,442      90.5%        38,769      87.5%         17,041      97.1%         2,648      49.7%         28,158     90.5%        149,061      89.1%
Conunuity Facilities
Subtotal                          1,830       2.7%           519       1.2%           104        0.6%           170       3.2%           730       2.3%          3,353       2.0%
Equipment
Subtotal                          4,687       6.8%         5,010      11.3%           409        2.3%         2,507      47.1%          2,220      7.1%         14,833       8.9%
All Physical Investments           68,959    100.0%          44,298    100.0%         17,554    100.0%           5,325    100.0%         31,107    100.0%        167,247    100.0%



Table 11
Purchase of Equipment by Type in All Participating Provinces
Province             Road Maintenance            Solid Waste                Hospital                 Vehicles          Other Equipment (*)              Total
and Construction            Collection               Equipment
US$000        %        USS000          /       US$'000        %         USs000        %         US$O000        %        USV000         %
Buenos Aires              762.5      16.3%           0.0       0.0%          51.4       1.1%          0.0       0.0%'o      3,872.7     82.6%       4,686.6    100.0%
Cordoba                  2,301.4     45.9%         277.5       5.5%         716.8      14.3%       1,457.0      29.1%        257.5       5.1%       5,010.2    100.0%
La Pampa                   23.8       5.8%/0        88.0      21.5%           0.0       0.0%           0.0       0.0%        297.3      72.7%         409.1     100.0%/e
Neuquen                  1,533.7     61.2%         552.7      22.0%           0.0       0.00/       281.9       11.2%        138.9       5.5%       2,507.2    100.00%
Santa Fe                 1,447.0     65.2%         422.3      19.0%         121.5       5.5%        228.8       10.3%          0.0       0.0%       2,219.6    100.0%
Total                    6,068.4     40.9%        1,340.5      9.0%         889.7      6.0%        1,967.7     13.3%        4,566.4     30.8%      14,832.7    100.0%
* The cost of some computer equipment is not included as it was counted as part of the institutional strengthening subprojects.



32
Table 12
Rate of Provincial Participation
Initial and Actual Share of Funds
Allocation of IBRD Financing
(US$ millions)
Province             Initial          Actual        Actual/Initial
Buenos Aires                 55.0             48.5            88.2%
Cordoba                      21.0             31.3           149.0%
LaPampa                       3.5             13.0           371.4%
Neuquen                       9.5              5.2            54.7%
SantaFe                      31.0             22.0            71.0%
Total                       120.0            120.0          100.0%



Table 13
Rate of Municipal Participation in All Participating Provinces
Number of Municipalities*                              Population                     Beneficiaries        Urban         %
Province          Participanting         All            %        Participating*-        All***          %                        Population*"
BuenosAires                    63              134       47.0%            5,329,101       12,595,000     42.3%          880,674    11,894,000       7.4%
Cordoba                       120              249       48.2%            2,030,877        2,767,000     73.4%          697,757    2,332,000       29.9%
LaPampa                        25               79       31.6%             178,300          260,000      68.6%          114,800      193,000       59.5%
Neuquen                         9               42       21.4%             281,300          389,000      72.3%           42,172      336,000       12.6%
Santa Fe                      105              662       15.9%            1,074,664        2,798,000    38.4%           285,600    2,391,000       11.9%
Total                         322             1,166      27.6%            8,894,242       18,809,000    47.3%          2,021,003    17,146,000     11.8%
* It includes both municipalities and "comunas".
** As reported by Provincial Executing Units
INDEC Census of Population 1991
* It does not include conmnunity facilities, equipment, and technical assistance components that benefit the entire population.



Table 14
Repayment of Municipal Subloans
(US$ as of Nov. 30, 1996)
Province              Issued            Paid          Outstanding    %  Outstanding         %  by Coparticipation
Buenos Aires *          15,824,179       14,247,825         1,576,354              10.0%                       20.7%
Cordoba                 11,025,370        8,701,921         2,323,449              21.1%                        3.0%
La Pampa *               6,148,533        2,916,476         3,232,057              52.6%                          n.a.
Neuquen                  4,609,931        4,221,980          387,951                8.4%                        6.2%
Santa Fe                16,737,190       15,878,900          858,290                5.1%                       15.2%
Total                  54,345,203       45,967,102        8,378,101              15.4%
* AsofOct 31, 1995.



Table 15
Cost Recovery from Direct Beneficiaries
(US$'000 as of March, 1996)
Province                      All                    Subprojects              %  of Subprojects                           Cost Recovery
Subprojects             With Cost Recovery   With Cost Recovery                    Issued              Paid             %  Paid
Buenos Aires                           69,569                      11,217                  16.1o                 8,633              4,950             57.3%
Cordoba                                44,480                      44,495                 100.0%                 44,495             23,803             53.50,o
La Pampa                               17,604                         n.a.                   n.a.                   n.a.               n.a.               n.a.                      or
Neuquen                                 5,345                       5,052                 94.50o                   3,835              1.285            33.5%6
Santa Fe                               31,939                      31,940                100.0o                 23,137             15,552             67.2.o
Total                                168,937                      92,704                 61.3%**                80,100             45,590             56.9%
* It includes the total cost of all physical investment subprojects (vorks, community facilities and equipment) and
technical assistance subprojects to municipalities.
** Assuming that the same cost recovery patterns of the Mlunicipality of Neuquen.
Excluding La Pampa.



36                                Appendix A
COMPLETION REPORT ON THE FIRST
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The purpose of this report is to set out some of the experience derived from
implementation of the first Municipal Development Project in Argentina between 1989
and 1995.
A.  BACKGROUND AND START-UP ENVIRONMENT
1.    The Project was identified at a time when the federal government was
beginning to consider the introduction of a series of policies to decentralize
the provision of public services.
2.    Since Argentina's institutional structure involves three levels of
government, each with its own jurisdiction, the decentralization process
entailed the transfer of services from the federal government to the
provincial governments, and from these to the municipalities.
3.    In this context, the Project provided two important elements: i) an
objective, and ii) an execution model.
4.    The objective of the Project was to support the municipalities, since they
would have to be capable of discharging their new responsibilities under
the decentralization option.
B.  MAIN FEA TURES OF THE IMPLEMENTA TION PHASE
5.    Given this objective, the main task of the Project was financing activities
for which the municipalities were clearly responsible, and which can be
divided into two categories (or groups of similar activities), namely: a)
investments, i.e. infrastructure works and the acquisition of equipment and
machinery, and b) institutional development, i.e. provision of consultants
and technical assistance to enhance municipal management.



37                                Appendix A
6.    Under the model selected for Project execution, coordination was handled
by the federal government while the provincial governments were
responsible for implementation. A Central Coordinating Unit (CCU) was
set up in the National Secretariat of Housing, and Provincial Executing
Units (PEUs) were established in the provincial governments of the five
participating provinces, viz.: Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Santa Fe, La Pampa
and Neuquen.
7.    With this structure in place, various estimates and projections were made
for purposes of Project execution. From the standpoint of the federal
government, the main issues were: i) the disbursement projections made
for the Project execution period, and ii) the desirability of using a resource
allocation system among the provinces, with a redistribution mechanism to
enable the initial allocations to be adjusted.
8.    One important issue that may not be explicitly reflected in the documents
signed at the time by the Argentine authorities and the Bank relates to the
flexibility needed by the Program management units, i.e. both the CCU and
the PEUs.
9.    On this point, the Bank was well aware of the fact that an operation of this
kind in Argentina would also call for flexible responses on the part of the
Bank itself.
10.   Flexibility was required of both parties in light of the need to coordinate the
three levels of government in an operation that broke new ground for the
provinces and municipalities, and involved machinery and procedures with
which the federal government and its officials were not familiar.
11.   For this reason, only five provinces participated in this first effort to
implement an externally financed project designed to strengthen local
governments. The five provinces contain about 650 municipalities and
communes; the aim was to work with about half of these.
12.   Consequently, the process of identifying the most rational tools, practices
and procedures for the analysis of investments was as important as the
investments themselves. This is the nature of a "pilot" project, and should
make it possible to refine the implementation of the Second Municipal
Development Project.



38                                 Appendix A
C.    PRINCIPAL LESSONS LEARNED
13.   The demand for financing tended to be concentrated in certain sectors of
priority interest to the municipalities, given their potential for short-term
results. A more strategic approach would take into account the possibility
of steering this demand, either through activities to make the local
authorities more aware of the issues involved, or through measures taken at
the federal level that would offset the tendency noted above.
14.   The demand for financing was concentrated on physical investments, such
as road rehabilitation, pavement works, curbs and gutters etc., to the
detriment of institutional development.
15.   Municipal leaders find the notion of institutional development harder to
grasp. It is assumed that such activities are slower to produce results, have
little impact at the neighborhood level, and that the rate of return is
uncertain at best. Changing these attitudes would require both an effort to
enlighten them and some demonstration experiences in this area.
16.   The Project tended to be regarded as a financing opportunity rather than as
what it should be, namely the start of the establishment of a permanent
process for the identification, preparation and implementation of projects,
and as a cycle of investment-recovery-investment.
17.   In this context, a major effort should be made to establish greater discipline
among municipal taxpayers, and this process should be extended to include
a more orderly financial relationship between the municipalities and the
provinces.
18.   The executing units should maintain permanent information systems on the
municipalities, both as regards their finances and their investment needs and
project pipeline.
D.  RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE WORLD BANK
19.   The execution of an internationally-financed project targeted at
municipalities in a federal state entails a complex institutional structure;
unless there is maximum flexibility in implementation procedures, a
successful outcome is very unlikely.
20.   The eligibility criteria governing the municipalities' access to the investment
component should be reviewed in cases where the project submitted is
clearly viable and is consistent with the project's policy guidelines.



39                                Appendix A
21.   The provinces' personnel resources leave much to be desired as regards the
execution of a complex program like the MDP. A solution should be
sought either through other programs targeting the provinces, or by
making some critical activities in the PEUs eligible for support.
22.   Bank missions should work closely with the project executing units, given
the complexities already referred to and the variety of situations that can
arise.
23.   Monitoring needs to be improved via the introduction of carefully selected
strategic indicators, so as to identify execution problems and any deviations
from policy guidelines.
NATIONAL COORDINATING UNIT
SECRETARIAT OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
May 26,1997






IBRD 20486
A 76'0\ I.e  i   7                           / I
0 . LI jV   I A-*  PARAGUAY
J'7       JUJUY          'i
AALAI              FORMOS                              BR        ZI.
ii N                                1~~~~~~~~~goz .80--ado d
(ATAMAC,:   TUCUMAN                                     d _lrigoyen
r  SANTIAGO   RESISTENCI                             NES
.                     _ Sont,ago del Estero mg.
CAA MARCA              L S-                    R         ..-'
ARIOJA~~~ ~                                                                3
( ~~S<e,t'"^ r ).>  FE t11
-30,                   /SANJUN' fi S  30-
J0        IN JUAN          t                           tDO  oncordiO
g~~~- N;it       ;/ >v       
C H  L E  /      SAN  _AF~E N            BAS  AIRES
Wj$.:PA M PA                          ^           .
o           *  *                      (_iROEDM   MUNICIPAL oDEEVcELOPMENT o
ENDO,R AT
d \         ~~~~Puerto Modrync
,  1   C;4U8|ur  /RAWSON                        ~~~~~~~~Pro;ect Provinces
i >   /                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Major Roads
f   /                                    4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~.t   Potts
' A.                                                            Rivers
-;        - tCOIMDORO                               _   -  Provinco Boundaries
-               RIVAAVI                                -  - International Boundaries
(1~~~~~~i
so.                                  RIt O  GALLEGOS                                                                    .
Tten, leeh b_e p,~ bv
17w I4,ldebo  1.  eob,e .
raL                  RAFS zn~Ncr hc  'TIERRA DUE L
,ds r_                               U  NFUEGO
00e hSg r.p de nd erSlr rn ne     US HAUAIAo
ra"fhr,~~~~~~~~1                                          KILOMETERS 0       200      400       600      800
dcnrw Ie.,#0V -                                                        MILES 0      100    200    300    400    500
JANUARY I1988









IMAGING
Report No.:         16641
Type:     ICR



