DeUmett of
The World Bank
FOR OQIICIAL USK ONLY
k                           ,a,~~~~~~1-4   ae    AZ.
ahpen No. 7093-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 26, 1988
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department 4
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Tids docmmet as a r1ested db.tim and my he used by reciW omy in the perfomsame of
tbeir odal dutes. Its _ntent my n_  oterws be disosed   _      .o d Wodank auc ho mon.



Currency Unit - Austral (A)
On October 14, 1987, * two-tiered exchange rate syst _ vas announced:
Co=ercial Fixed Rate (official):                   US$1.00 - A  3.50
A 1.00 - US$0.29
Free Market Rate (Appraisal: Novembr 14, 1987)s US$1.00 - A 4.03
A 1.00 - US$0.25
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The Metric System has been used throughout this report.
ABBREVIATIONS
AMBA     Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area
(Area Metropolitana de Buenos Aires)
FONAVI   National Housing Fund
(Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda)
INDEC    National Census Bureau
(Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos)
PEU      Project Execution Unit
POM      Project Operations Manual
SVOA     Secretariat of Housing and Environmental Management
(Secretaria de Vivienda y Ordenamiento Ambiental)



FM3 OFflICA UU ONdLY
I                       ~~~~MVICIPZL DIYtLPUl"  MMOI
table of Contoent
upb.
LOWM  CS    8     SUIIART   .................................    iLI
I.       THE                                                              I
Recent Urbanisotion Trends...............................        1
Oovernaet Structure for Provision of Public S.rvic......         2
Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental
Fiscal Relations ....................................       2
Sector Development Issues and Obj*ctives.................        5
Sector Lending Strategy and Rationale for Bank
Involv _ nt ................................. 5
II.      THE ........................................... ........         7
Project Origin .................................. .........      7
Project Objectives .......................................       7
Project Components.......................................        7
Criteria for Implementation of Project Objectives........        7
Project Costs and Allocation by Province.................       11
Financing Plan ............................                     13
Implementation Arrangements         5..........                 15
P r o c u   r    e     m    e    a     t       ~~~~~~~~~~~~16
Di bur  empat                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~18
Accounts and   A        uAs19
conomic ....Impa..........................................      21
Poverty Impt............        ..            .     .           21
Environmental Impact............                                22
Risks and Safeguards .....................................      22
III.     AGRE3MNTS REACHED ANDC REC O4NDATIONSD...      TI..O........    23
This report Is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission that
visited Argentina from August 10 to September 3, 1987. This mission was
comprised of Meosrs. James Hicks (Mission Loader, LAI4E), Mario Artasa-
Rousel (LA4IE), David Vettor and Lubomir Ficicski Dunin (Consultants). The
appraisal mission yes undertaken by Mr. Hicks during November 11-16, 1987.
Mrs. Marli Nikolov-Fernandes assisted in the production of this report.
Thistdocumnths astdrcted drbution ndouYbou   byrspbonlyIn dPfonn
of thdkofioWdudueL Its contents muynot oftnvinbebdisckFo witout Wodd Ban nsuhodudm



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
LIST OF AMINES                                                      P    nas Mo.
1.       Oeneral Demographic and Economic Trends and
Characteristics of Participating Provinces....                26
A.  Demographic Treds. ...................................    26
3. Economic Aspects ....                                      28
C. Int-r-Governmental Transfers and the Capacity
to Plan Capital Investments at the Municipal Level...    29
2.       Municipal Investment Plan Prof41 s                             52
A.  Physical Investments...                                    52
B.  Technical Assistance and Triining                          53
3.       Implementation Arrangementsr......                             56
4.       Project Impact on Provincial and Municipal Financess.... *    60
5.       Project Economic and Social Analysis.....................      64
6.       Provincial Project Operations Ma as        .ls                 72
7.       Major Cost Tables
1. Typical Investment Component Unit Costs ..............     74
2. Project Costs by Component...........................      75
3. Detailed Project Costs and Contingencies.............      76
4.  Investment Schedule by Major Component...............     77
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements..................      78
i 8.     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File....      79
MAP
IBRD 20486 -- Argentina: Municipal Development Project



ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SMtSKY
Argentine Republic.
Provinces  of Bueno   Aires,  Cordoba, La Papa,
Neuquen, and Santa Fat and eligible municipalities
of tbese province.
Amount:                US$ 120.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayment in  15 yes"s,  including three  years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable
rate.
Relendina T rms:       All proceeds of the  loan would be onlent from the
Central to Provincial Governments under the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan, except that
the Central Government would assume the cross-
currency exchange risk and pass on the US dollar
xchange risk to provinces, with the condition that
if the   periodic,   dollar-indexed   debt  service
adjustments exceed a band'   of plus or minus 102
deviation from the official inflation rate, then the
difference would be credited  to (or capitalixed in)
outstanding provincial debt. In addition, provinces
would pay a  service  charge  of  up  to  12 of loan
amounts disbursed. Except for on amount up to 51 of
the loan (or 101 in exceptional cases) that may be
used  by   the   provinces   to   finance  technical
assistance and training, all proceeds of the Bank
loan   would   be    onlent    from   provinces   to
municipalities  on  harder"  terms  (maxim4m  of 10
years repayment, including up to one year of grace,
with spread of at least 1.5 percentage points over
interest  rate   paid   by   provinces   to  Central
Government) necessary to capitalize a Municipal
Development Fund for project replication in each
province. Municipal repayment of subloans would be
guaranteed through the province's retention of the
mmnicipality's  debt   servicing   obligations  from
provincial revenue sharing.
Prolect Obiectives
and Description:    The main purpose  of the  proposed  project  is to
contribute   to  more   effective   public   sector
management at the provincial and municipal levels
through improved financing mechanisms for municipal
investments. The specific objectives of the project
would be to: (a) mobilize external and internal



- iv -
resources in a non-deficit and non-inflationary wsy
to finance justified municipal investmentsg (b)
strengthen municipalities' capacity to plan, finance
and  execute   cost-effective  capitol   mprovcmnts
progr_me   and  (c)   promote  structured,  periodic
consultations  between   municipal   and  provincial
authorities for the formulation and evaluation of
Investment  plans.     The   project would  provide
subloans  to  the  five  bcnefitting  provinces  for
financing  SO1  of  total  eligible  cost*  fort (a)
physical  Investments,  including  construction  and
rehabilitation   of    public   infrastructure   and
coinmity facilities, and  purchase  of vehicles and
equipments  and   (b)   technical   assistanco  and
training.  In  order  to  implement  effectively the
project's     objectives,       only     creditworthy
municipalities (having  a  balanced  current account
and debt obligations within acceptable limits) would
be  eligible  to   receive   subloans  for physical
investments, and each annual investment plan of each
eligible municipality must have at least 65. of
total proposed physical investments allocated to
components for which 1002 of total investment costs
will  be  fully  recovered   from  payments  to  the
municipality by direct beneficiaries (betterment
levies, connection fees, etc.).
Benefits:              There are  four main  categories  of  benefits: (a)
financial,  where  the   project's  design  criteria
(primarily  through   limitation   of  onlending  to
creditworthy municipalities  that  agree  to recover
costs substantially in excess of the loan amount)
would assure  that  incremental  resources mobilized
through the project would be used in a non-deficit
and non-inflationary way, and municipalities that
participate  in  the  project  would  be financially
strengthened to provide other services not financed
under the project; (b) poverty Imact, with long-
term financing making cost recovery affordable to
the poor, and with creation of approximately 58
thousand person/years of construction work; (c)
institutional,    through     providing    financial
predictability     necessary      for    sub-national
governments to plan and program investments; and (d)
economic,  with   an   average   IRR   of   382  for
infrastructure  investments.  In   addition,  it  is
anticipated that the lessons learned from the design
and implementation of this operation will make the
project's replication in other provinces relatively
easy.
Risks and Safetuards:  Possible   risks   include   ineffective  provincial
management  and  lack   of   continuity  in  project
support. The main safeguard for this would be to
spread the risk among the five provinces. This



imuld be  **meve   primzily  throuh the  o ditie
that It   im"matatia   delays   ownc   la
province. them the liitial losm ellocatdo. by
pr.viae ~msl be adjusted to allocate  or,e tumad. to
these    provinces    with    dommstrated   greater
impimetatie  capaity.
Katimated ProieUS Coastes
(in m   mild. of Ja     196)
A. Infrtructure                          98.3        42.0  140.3
S. comnity Facilitie                     12.8         5.2    18.0
C. Project Design and Supervision         9.4         1.7    11.1
D. Fquipmsnt and Vehilel                  4.8        18.8    23.6
E. Technical Assistanc- and Training      6.7         3.4   10.1
Total Base Cost                         132.0        7i.1   203.1
Physical Contingencies                 13.2         7.1    20.3
Price Contingencies                    10.8         3.8    16.6
Total Contingencies                      24.0        12.9    36.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      16084.0   240.0
Finramina Plan
Bank                                   36.0        84.0   120.0
Provinces                              32.0         0.0    32.0
Municipalities                         88.0         0.0    88.0
Estimatd Disbursemsents
(Bank Fiscal Year)
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual       5.0-    9.7   18.3   25.8   23.0   19.0  16.1b   3.ib
cumulative   5.0    14.7  33.0  58.8   81.8  100.8 116.9  120.0
Economic Rate of Returns  381c
* Including initial deposit of US$ 5 million Into the Special Account, and
retroactive financing.
b Rate of disbursement reduced to recover advance =ade for Special Account.
c Weighted average calculated for components comprising 581 of total
project costs.



I. THE SECTOR
Recent Urbanization Trends
1.01    Argentint  is one of the most urbanized countries in Latin America,
with the unique characteristic that urbanization vas well advanced before
World War I. In 1980, 832 of the total population lived in urban arsas,
defined as settlements of 2000 or more inhabitants. Although it has not
experienced the rapid urbanization in recent decades of some other
countries of the region, Argentins Is still experiencing a significant
Increase in the growth of its urban population. While the total population
grew at a rate of 1.82 per year from 1970 to 1980 (23.4 to 27.9 million),
the rural population decreased (losing almost 500 thousand from 5.1 million
in 1970), and the urban population grew at 2.4% per year, to 23 million
Inhabitants. Argentina's census bureau (INDEC) *stimates that the urban
population will reach 28 million by 1990.
1.02    Argentina also is one  of  the Latin American countries where the
urban population is most heavily concentrated in its capital: in 1970, the
Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area (AMBA), with 8.5 million inhabitants,
contsined 362 of the country's total population and 462 of its urban
population. The two largest urban agglomerations outside the AMM, with
1970 populations in the 0.5 to 1.0 million range (Cordoba and Rosario),
represented 72 of the total population  in  1970.    Over the 1970 to 1980
period, however, there has been a trend towards decentralization of growth
in urban population: the AMBA population decreased from 36% to 352 of total
population; urban agglomerations in the 0.5 to 1.0 million inhabitants
range increased in number from 2 to 5 (including Mendoza, La Plata, and San
Miguel de Tucuman), and accounted for 122 of the total population; and
cities of less than 100 thousand population proved to be dynamic,
increasing their share of total population from 23Z in 1970 to 262 in 1980.
In terms of absolute numerical growth of the country's urban population
over the 1970180 period, 2.2 million inhabitants were added to the capital
and five largest urban agglomerations, and cities of less than 500 thousand
grew by 2.7 million inhabitants.
1.03    These demographic trends  reflect  a decentralization of economic
activity. While the Gross Regional Product (GRP) of the country as a whole
grew by 28.5Z over 1970180, it only grew by 162 and 182 in the Federal
Capital and the Province of Buenos Aires, respectively. This contrasts
with growth rates over the  same period of  1232  for Neuquen and 432 for
Cordoba. This decentralization of economic activities is reflected in the
more recent data on manufacturing employment. Over 1975/85, the country's
manufacturing employment  decreased by  102,  representing  a  loss of 152
thousand jobs. In the AMBA alone, however, 166.6 thousand manufacturing
jobs were lost, while there was a net gain of 14.6 thousand jobs in the
rest of the country. In many cases, increases in manufacturing employment
have been significant, particularly in the "frontier' areas, such as
Neuquen and La Pampa, where manufacturing employment increased over 1975185
by 87.52 and 46.52, respectively.



Government Structurl for Provisino of Public 8rvye.
1.04     Tho Argentine State 1t organised to three political-admindstrative
and territorial jurisdictions: the contral, prowlacial and uanicipal
lev.l.. Within this federal orgaisatiom, all govwrrAnntal power formally
*mante from the  Province.    Province.  delegate  l mtod  powers to the
Cbetral  Oo-rommt  aNW  retain  for  thoselves  a11  other authority.
Province  are  autonomus  entitie   governed  by  their own Constitutions.
Municipalities  are organised  as part   of  each  Prowince's  system of
government.     Although   the  Natioal   Constitution  establishes  that
uniclpalitte  should be indepedet from  other  loev   of Goaverment, It
also requires  each  Prowc   to  establish  a Municipal Cod.,  In which
spocific responsibilitie antd authoritis are delegated from Prowlace to
Municipality.
1.05    The Central Government ti empowered to meet the main general needs
of the Argentina society and to provide for the comon Interest of the
different territorial subdivisions.    There  are  also "concurrent powers
entrusted by the Constitution to both the Central Governmnt and the
Provinces, and even to Municipalities by provincial delegation. Because of
the  diversity  of  Provincial  Constitutions,  and  a historically strong
Interpretation of the Central Government's authority in practice, there ia
provincial diversity, and significant areas of ambiguity, regarding service
delivery   authority   and   responsibility.       In   general,   however,
responsibilities for service provialon may be Illustrated as followst
exclusively Central Government -- defense, foreign affairs, inter-Province
transportation and trade regulation, mail and telecommunications; Central
and Provincial Governments -- secondary and higher education, preventive
health, justice, security, economic development, major passenger and cargo
terminals, housing, electric and gas energy; Provincial and Municipal
Governments -- elementary education, primary health care, water and
sewerage, regional and local roads, fire control; and predominantly
Municipal Governments -- solid waste collection and disposal, local streets
and dralnage, parks, markets, cemeteries and land use planning and control.
Public Sector Financln ond Interovernmental Fiscal Relations
1.06    During the 1960s and 1970s, the fiscal significance of Argentina's
23 provinces  and territories  grew  substantially.   Real expnditures
Increased rapidly, both in per cggita ters and relative to total economic
activity. Overall, lor capita provincll/municipal xpenditures grew twice
aS   fst   as   central   government   outlays.       In   terms   of  GDP,
provincial/municipal expenditures nearly doubled from 5.42 in 1960 to an
average of 10.2Z In 1977180. In the latter period, provincial expenditures
exceeded central government expenditures  by wide     rgins in the ares of
health  and  general  admnistrative  overhead.    For  the  area   broadly
classified as economic  developmnt,  the central government's expnditures
have been decreasng (from 6.12 of GDP In 1960 to 4.2Z In the latter 1970.)
relative to those of provincial and municipal governments (1.4S of GDP in
1960 to 2.42 in the latter 1970a). This trend has continued into the 1980.,
with provincial/municipal expenditures  representing  11 0%  of GDP for the
1984185 period, as compared to the Central Government's average of 8.82 of
GDP for the same period (excluding public enterprise. end social security,
which together averaged 32.22 of GDP for the period).



-3-
1.07    As provided in the  Ntional Constitution, the Central Goverument
has the following sources of revenues: (a) resources allocated to it
exclusively and on a pen ennt basi  (taxes  on foreign trade and profits
from  the  postal   service)I  (b)  resoures  allocated  permanently  in
conjunction  with  the  Prowines   (dousetic  taxes);  ad  (c)  resources
allocated temporarily and on a shared basis with the Provinces (direct
taxs in  cases  of national emergency).   Categories  (b)  and (c) bave
contributed approxinately 802 of total Central GoverrAsnt tax revenues, and
they bhav formed the base for Central/Provincial Goverrmants' revenue
sharing system.  It  *bould be  noted  that the formal central/provincial
revenue sharing systm ws suspended In 1985, an  new legislation currently
is being forulated. For 1985/86  and  util the new systm is formalised,
the shared revenue base for 1984 has been used, with adjustments for
inflation, for each province. Thus, the former revenue sharing alloc-tion
criteria described below (with details In Annex 1) are still b"alcally in
place.
1.08    Under this revenue *having system, 31 of the total collected went
to a Regional Development Fund (a special fund to promote regional
integration), with the rest divided equally between Provinces and the
Central Government, Including  1.81   of  the  total  for Buenos Aires
Municipality and 0.21 for the  Territories.  The formula for distribution
among the 22 Provinces was as  follows:  (a)  65Z in direct proportion to
population; (b) 251 In direct proportion to the development gap' (based on
indicators  of housing  quality  and   number  of  automobiles  per  1,000
Inhabitants) between each Province and the most developed area; and (c) 101
among Provinces that have population  densities below the national average,
In Inverse proportion to the difference between the density of each
eligible Province and the average.   The  impact of this formula has been
strongly rodistributive.  In  1980,  for  oxample,  the Province of Buenos
Airos, which was allocated only 28.31 of local total rovenue shared usiug
this formula, would have received 43.51 of this total if population were
used as the criterion.    The population  criterion  Itself, of course, is
generally redistributive, unless there is a strong, positive corrolation
between tax roceipts and population, which is rarely the case.
1.09     The preceeding paragraph briefly  describes the legally determined
system of revenue sharing botween Central and Provincial Governments
(conarticinacion federal), In place formally to 1984, and informally since
then. In recent years, particularly as domestic taxes have fallen with the
national recession, coparticipacion transfers have decreased in real terms.
To partially take up the slacks in budgetary resources at the Provincial
level, the Central Government ha Increased its support to Provinces
through ad hoc, discretionary transfers (acuerdos financieros). These
discretionary mechanisms have resulted, however, in total transfers to
Provinces that vary widely from year to year. For example, over the 1980-
84 period, total revenue sharing  and discretionary grants transferred from
the Federal Government ranged from US$3.5 billion in 1980 to US$1.9 billion
in 1982, and finished the period at US$2.7 billion. As the provinces share
the  amounts   transferred   from   the   Federal   goverament  with  their
municipalities,  this  temporal  instability   at   the  highest  lovel  is
transferred down to the local level, making it very difficult or impossible
to plan, especially for capital  expenditures.  The impact of this temporal



instabillty at the municipal level depends on the degree of provincial
dependence on revenues derived from Federal sourcea (including royalties
for extraction of natural resources).   This dependence varies greatly.  In
1985, for example, only 37.51 of the total revenue of the Province of
luenos Aires was from Federal sources, versus 56.21 for Santa Fe, 61.22 for
Cordoba, 77.62 for La Pampa and 82.32 for Neuquen.
1.10     Intergoverrmental  fiscal  relationships   between  provinces  and
municipalities  are  similar  to   those  between  central  and  provincial
goverements, although each Provincial Constitution provides for specific
arrangements. Fiscal transfers from provinces to municipalities may be
automatic (revenue  sharing,  or  copgrticl2acion)  or  discretionary.   In
principle, revenue sharing should provide resources in a sufficient amount
so that, combined with a reasonable municipal fiscal effort, municipalitles
would at least continue to maintain their current level of services, and
the need for discretionary transfers would be minimal. Further discussion
of the inter-governmental transfer system is presented in Annex 1.
1.11     In  general,   provincilX/municipal   revenue  sharing  allocation
criteria are predominately  redistributional.    Even  in  the two proposed
provinces that stress devolution (La Pampa and Neuquen), over a quarter of
the allocation criteria are redistributional.   In the Province of Cordoba,
for example, 10% of the provincial revenues from property and sales taxos,
as well as of Federal covarticipacion are transferred to municipalities.
Under the new (1987) Provincial constitution, 1% of this total amount will
be set aside for  a  Municipal Development  Fund.    The remainder is then
divided into three parts: municipalities receive 95Z; 32 goes to Comisiones
Vecinalesl  ; and the reserve fund  receives 22. The criteria used for the
allocation of the 952 share  to municipalities under the existing law2 are
highly redistributional: 76.8% is allocated among the municipalities
according to redistributional criteria (population, 40.32; equal shares
18.2Z; inverse of population growth, 3.32, and personnel costs, 15Z).3
Thus,    although  23.2%   of   the   total  coparticipacion  transfers  to
municipalities provide some incentive for municipal tax effort, the main
thrust is compensatory or redistributive, tending to allocate relatively
higher per capita transfers to municipalities with smaller populations,
slower growth and weaker fiscal bases.
1 12     The primary municipal  own-source  revenues  are: user charges for
public services (frequently tied to the property tax) such as street
lighting, solid waste collection and disposal, storm drainage, and street
maintenance; and betterment levies for public works that directly enhance
property values. The percentage of total municipal receipts originating
from fiscal transfers from provinces increased from 382 of total revenues
in 1980 to 511 in 1983, while their real value contracted and fluctuated
It Villages with insufficient population to become municipalities.
d cThe regulatory law establishing the new criteria for allocation after
the constitutional change has  not yet been enacted, but the proposed
law is practically the same as the existing one.
31 For more details, see Annex 1, especially Table 16.



-5-~~--
widely from yecr to year.   As in the Central/Provincial rclationship, the
Provinclal/Mlnicipal trasnfor  system  ha   tended  to  respond  to general
economic  conditions.   As  the  formal  revenue  sharing  transfers  have
decreased In the 1980s, Provinces have tried to compensate at least
partially  for  this   with   increases   in   discretionary  trnsfers  to
municipalities.  In the  Province of Cordoba, covartielDlones repreoeted
952 of total transfors to munlciplities in 1980; in 1983 theso decroesed
to 502 and in 1984, coparticivaciones were 702 of total transfors. Thus,
total provincial tranfore to municipalities  have varied greatly, not only
in amount, but also by type (legally mandated vs. discretionary). The
unpredictability of provincial transfer receipts, combined with unfavorable
tera and very limited access to borrowings, has made development of
longer-term municipal capitol improvements programs practically impossible.
Sector Development Issues and Obiectives
1.13     The Sector's development issues  and objectives are closely linked
to national issues and objectives, primarily those of enhanced resource
mobilization and  increased  public  sector  efficiency.    A  key national
objective is to mobilize resources for needed public investments and
recurrent costs in a manner that will reduce deficit financing and
inflationary pressures* An  effective way  to meet  this objective is to
tranfer, to the maximun extent possible, the full financing burden for
public investments and recurrent costs to their direct beneficiaries. The
central and provincial governments have limited potential to recover costs
directly from beneficiaries.   At  the municipal government level, however,
there is substantial potential, frequently underutilized, for direct cost
recovery from beneficiaries. Furthermore, as Government's decentralization
policy proceeds, this potential should increase. Instruments for improved
municipal direct cost recovery include betterment levies, connection fees,
user charges, concessions, rents,  etc*   To  the extent that these direct
cost  recovery mechanisms   may   be   improved  and  expanded,  municipal
governments may contribute substantially to national objectives of resource
mobilization in a non-deficit and non-inflationary manner.
1.14     The resource mobilization  objective  is  closely  linked  to the
objective of improved public  sector management.   To effectively mobilize
resources, municipal  governments  must  enhance  their  capacity  to plan,
program and budget for capital improvements programs, as well as for
operation and maintenance of existing and proposed facilities. Effective
decentralization and improvement of public sector management at the sub-
national level greatly depend on better financial and service delivery
responsibility relationships between Provinces and Municipalities. The
Argentinas: Economic Memorandum (1985, p. 95) identifies at least three key
issues for successful implementation of these improvementst (a) how to
achieve greater predictability of, and control over, the volume of annual
transfers to the provinces and municipalities; (b) how to achieve better
public accountability for the resources transferred; and (c) how to
encourage provincial and local government reforms in planning, budgeting,
financial programming, etc.
Sector Lending Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.15     Through  increasing  the   resource   base  and  service  delivery
efficiency of municipal governments, the Bank would support two of the



-6-
broad objectives  for which  the  Gbovernent he. solicited Bank supports
Increased public aector efficiency; and resource sobilisation. The lank's
support would focus on improving the financial managemont relationship
between Provinces and Hunicipalities, particularly In promoting effective
municipal capital Improvements progr _   that offer adequate cost recovery,
priuarily from  the  program's  direct benefelries.   Through promoting
fiscel disciplin    and   an  appropriat,  balance  betwee   expenditure
responsibility and revenue authority by level of governmnt, the Bank would
support resource mobilization In a financially responsible smnner.



II. TIMROtC
Project Oriain
2.01     The  proposed  operation would be  the  first  of  Its  kind  in
Argent m. It builds on the operational experience gained In two proj-ets
being iplementod by  the  Brazilian  States  of  Parnc and Santa Catarina
(Loon Nos. 2343-5R and 2623-U).    The project would benefit the Provinels
of Buenos ALres, Cordoba, La Pma_, Neuquen and Santa Fe, and If the
experlence proves successful, a sequence of further operations would be
developed to benefit other Provinces.
Pro10ct Obi ectives
2.02     The main purpose of the proposed project Is to contribute to wor
effective public sector management at the Provincial and Municipal levels
of goverrment through Improved finaneing mechanisms for justified municipal
investments. The specific objectives of the project would be to:
(a) mobilisz external and internal resources in a non-deficit and non-
lnflationary way to finance municipal lnvestmnts with positive
economic and social impact.;
(b) strengthen municipalities' capacity to plan, finance and execute
cost-effectiv* capital lmprovements progrms; and
(c) promote structured, periodic consultations between municipal and
provincial authorities for the formulation and ovaluation of
Investment plns.
Proiect Components
2.03     The project would finance  the  following component categories, as
described in greater detall in Annex 2s
(a) Physical investments (representing at least 902 of total project
costs),  including  construction   and  rehabilitation  of public
infrastructure  (e*ge, water,  sewerag,  street  paving, storm
drainage) and community facilities (e.g., bus terminals, health
posts), and purchase of vehicles and equipment (e.g., road
maintenance, garbage collection); and
(b) Technical assistanco and training (generally representing up to 5S
of total project costs in each province, or up to 10 in
exceptional cases with justifications satisfactory to the Bank),
including financial management, accounting procedurs, cadastres,
maintenance proeedures, computers, supervision vehicles, etc.
Criteria for Implementation of Project Objectives
2.04     In order to effectively implement the project's objectives in five
distinct Provinces, each with unique demographlc, economic, physical and
political characteristics,  it  is  essential that  the  basic  criteria
necessary for effective implementation of project objectives be clear,



-8-
easily determined and fully accepted by all institutions Involved In the
project's implementation. These basic criteria, covering (a) eligibility
for  (i)  Provincial   (ii)   Municipal  and  (iII)  investment  component
participation  in  the project   and   (b)   the minimum  conditions  for
capitalisation of a Municipal Development Fund In each participatiAg
Province (providing for project replicability) must be uniformly defined
end applied in all participating Provinces, as described below.
2.05     Regarding provincial  eligibility, a  fundamental  condition for
achieving the resource mobilization objective is that each participating
Province has a revenue sharing (coParticipacion) system that: (a) has an
acceptable balance of fiscal devolution and rodistributive criteria for
allocation of the shared revenues; and (b) provides shared revenues in a
sufficient aount so that, combined with a reasonable municipal fiscal
effort, municipalities may at least continue to maintain their current
level of  servico.    The  revenue  sharing  systems  of  the five proposed
Provinces are described in Annex 1, Part C, and the above conditions have
been met in all of the proposed Provinces.
2.06     Regarding munmicial eligibility  criteria,  only municipalities in
which investment decisions for the kinds of infrastructure to be financed
under the project are substantially independent of investment decisions of
other municipalities would be potentially eligible to participate in the
project. This criterion is based on the following considerations: (a) the
project seeks to strengthen municipal institutional capacity to more
effectively provide municipal services; (b) it also seeks to strengthen a
significant number of municipalities through financing numerous, small-
scale municipal investments; and (c) to include metropolitan areas and
other urban agglomerations, with complex inter-municipal infrastructure
systems, would jeopardize the rapid resource mobilization objective through
more  complicated   technical   issues   and   institutional  arrangements.
Eligibility of municipalities according to urbanization characteristics is
determined in Annex 1, para. 6, and Attachment 1.
2.07    Within the above criterion,  all municipalities would be eligible
to participate in the  technical assistance  and training component of the
project. In order to receive credit to finance physical investments,
however,  municipalities must  meet  creditworthiness  criteria.    To be
eligible, a municipality must demonstrate, initially and during the entire
project execution period, that:
(a) its current revenues (including municipal own-source revenues and
legally   regulated   revenue   sharing,   cokarticipaciones, but
excluding discretionary grants)  are  greaterl   than its current
expenditures (including payments of interest and principal); and
(b)  its  outstanding  and  proposed   debt   obligations  are within
reasonable limits, defined by the following criteria: (i) total
outstanding and proposed debt not to exceed 60X of total municipal
revenues (excluding credit) of the previous year, duly adjusted
for inflation; and (ii) total debt service on total outstanding
and proposed loans not to exceed 151 of total budgeted revenues
for the year of the proposed project.
1/ For details on the application of this criterion, see Annex 2, para. 3.



-9-
2.08     Regarding comoonent eliuibility  criteria, * fundamental condition
for achieving the objectives of the  project is that e*ih annual investment
plan presented by each municipality has at least 652 of total proposed
physical investments allocated to components for which 1002 of total
investment costs will be fully recovered from payment to the municipality
by direct beneficiaries (betteor nt levies, connection fees, ueer charges,
sales, concessions,  rents,  *tc.).    This  criterion,  together with the
municipal  creditworthy  criteria  (para.   2.07) would  provide  adequate
assurances thats
(a)  incremental resources mobilized through  the project would be used
An a non-deficit and non-inflationary way; and
(b)  municipalities  that   psrticipate   In   the   project  would  be
financially strengthened in order to provide other s*rvices not
financed under the project.
2.09     The municipal creditworthy  and  component  eligibility criteria
noted  above  would   provide   the   conditions   necessary  for project
replicability within each  participating  municipality.    The project also
envisages replicability  across  municipalities.    This  would be achieved
through creation of a Municipal Development Fund in each participating
Province as a condition of disbursement (para. 3.03(a)), or more generally,
as a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.02(a)). All of the proposed
Provinces have agreed that 'harder' onlending terms to municipalities are
necessary  to  capitalize  the  Municipal  Development  Funds.    However,
legitimate doubts exist regarding the 'ideal' level of Fund capitalization
in each Province, because there are doubts about sustainable levels of
municipal borrowings from the Fund, particularly in light of possible
future, alternative sources of borrowing that are not defined now. To
ensure a minimum level  of  project  replicability, resouces capitalized in
these  Funds would   be   used   exclusively   for  further  onlending  to
municipalities at positive real interest rates. Furthermore, it has been
agreed with all Provinces that each would be autonomous to establish its
onlending policies to municipalities within the following minimum measures
for-Municipal Development Fund capitalization (para. 3.01(b)(i)):
(a) while project loans from the Central Government to Provinces would
be repaid over 15 years, including three years of grace (para.
2.22), Provincial onlending to Municipalities would have up to a
maximum of 10 years for loan repayment, including up to a maximum
of one year of grace; and
(b)  in  onlending  to Municipalities,   Provinces would  include  an
interest rate spread of  at  least  1.5 percentage points over the
rate for Provincial repayment of loans to the Central Government.
2.10     These  arrangements  would   ensure  capitalization  of Municipal
Development Funds  in  each  participating  Province  of  at  least 33S, as
measured by the present value of net funds flowing to the Fund over 20
years, and expressed as a percentage of the initial loan withdrawn over
three years.  From  an  alternative  perspective, these arrangements would
capitalize each Fund at least to the level of 131, as measured by the



- 10 -
annual balanc  estimated to flow to  the  Fund  in year 18 and beyond, and
expressed as a percentage of the average annual loans financed under the
project  for the  Initial thre   year  implementation period. From  the
perspectivo of project beneficiaries, who mst finance the capitalization
of the Municipal Development Funds, the  1.S percentage point spread would
represent,  on  average, an  increase   of approximataly  62  In  annual
beneficiary repaymens  to municiplities with  a  nie year amortization
period. Further analysis of Municipal Development Fund capitallsation Is
presented in Annex 4.
2.11    As the political jurisdiction  closest  to popular pressures for
improved public infrastructure and services, municlpalities ft-quently
serve as   interediaries" for services  that  tbey  are  not mandated to
provide. This is the case, for example, when a municipality uses the
betterment levy to recover the investent costs of extending so ggas
networks to residential areas; after construction ls eompleted, however,
the municipality transfers these Infrastructure ass*ts to the national ga
company nd has no authority over the gas company's operation. If the
proposed project financed such Investments, it would be supporting the
national gas company rather than strengthening the municipality. Thus, In
order to meet the project's objective to strengthen municipalities'
capacity to plan, finance and execute appropriate investment programa, the
project would finance only those physical investments that are exclusively
municipal In nature. The criteria for determining if physical Investments
are exclusively municipal in nature are positive responses to all of the
following questions:
(a)  Will  the  investments   be   procured under  the municipality's
authority?
(b) After the Investment is completed, will the municipality be
responsible for its operation and maintenance? and
(c) After the investment Is completed, will the municipality have
authority over service tariffs or fees?
2.12     In some provincs,  service provider cooperatives are widespread,
and often there are questions regarding final reponsibility, municipal or
cooperative, for service provision.   In  these cases, investments ould be
considered eligible for financing under the project when: (a) all of the
three criteria of the proceeding paragraph are satisfied; and (b) municipal
authority is legally delegated, with limitations of delegation authority,
to cooperatives In which participation is restricted to persons or firms
located within the jurisdiction of the munlcipality.
2.13    In order to  (a) promote  broad  institutional benefits resulting
from implementing numerous, small-scale investments In many municipalities
and (b) be consistent with  simplified methodologies for economic (Ann  5)
and technical (Annex 6) appraisals, *ligible civil works subprojects to be
financed In each municipality would be limited to US$ 500,000 equivalent.
For application of this criterion, a civil works subprojoet Is defined as
having all the elements necessary to be fully functional, either on its
own, or in conjunction with other works that already exist.



- 11 -
Proiect Coats and Allocation by Proaince
2.14    The total project coat  is  estimted  at US$ 240.0  million
equivallnt, Including bae coats and contingencies, but excluding lead,
dutles and taxes, which are lnlilgible for lank financing. The proposed
lank loan of US$ 120.0 millieo equivalent would finance 50S of tbese totel
costs. A *u Ary of project costs is presented in Table 1, and details are
prsented In Annex 7, Tables 2-4. Additional details, with disaggregations
at the Provincial leel, are available In the Project Fi1e.
Table 1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(in USS millions of January 1988)
F. .C. s      Z of
Component               Local  Forcian  Total  2 of Total lDs* Costs
A. Infrastructure         98.3      42.0  140.3       30.0        69.1
B. Comunity Facilities   12.8       5.2   18.0        30.0         8.8
C. Proj. Design & Sup.    9.4        1.7   11.1       15.0         5.5
D. Equip.& Vehicles       4.8      18.8   23.6        80.0        11.6
E. TA & Training          6.7       3.4   10.1        35.0         5.0
Total Base Cost          132.0     71.1  203.1        35.0       100.0
Physical Contin.        13.2      7.1   20.3        35.0        10.0
Price Contingencies     1 _       5.8   16.6        35.0         8.2
Total Contingencies      24.0      12.9   36.9        35.0        18.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST       156.0     84.0  240.0        35.0       118.2
2.15    Project cost estimates have been made  based on actual coats of
similar Items recently procurod in the proposed Provinces. General and
unitary specifications nd dimensions of typical subprojects have been
reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank, and are presented in Annex 7,
Table  1.   Each  Province's  Project Operations Manual would  include
provisions, satisfactory to the Bank, for review ex-ante, as well as
supervision of *xecution, by competent provincial authozities (Ministry of
Public Works) for each sub-project proposed by municipalities (see Annexes
3 and 6).
2.16    Costs are expressed in US dollars because of the unpredictability
of national inflation and devaluation rates during the implementation
period. Blse costs were determined by updating dollar equivalent costs of
Juno 1987 to those of January  1988, applying the expected yearly rate of
inflation of 31  for  1987.   Annual rates of inflation estimated for
international price trends for manufactured goods and civil works were used
to estimate the project's price contingoncies: 1988-90, 12; 1991 and
thereafter,  3.52.  Physical  contingencies   averaging   102,  and price
contingencies averaging 82, have been estimatd.



-12-
2.17     For the total project,  foreign  exchange  costs are estimated at
35, with approximately 302 for infrastructure and community facilities,
15S for project engineering and supervision, 352 for technical assistance
and 801 for equipment and vehicles.
2.18     Disensioning of project and loan  sizes are based primarily on (a)
the debt limitations and actual investment levels over the past five years
of creditworthy, and thus financially eligible (par&. 2.07), Municipalities
of the five Provinces, (b) Municipal institutional capocity to expand their
historical levels of investment and Provincial institutional capacity to
support xpanded municipal investments and (c) the investment programs
presented by each Province based on (a) and (b) above, as well as estimates
of the actual municipal demand for credit over a project execution period
of three years  (for  additional discussion  regarding dimensioning of the
project, see Annex 4).  Based on  the above, the total Bank loan would have
an initial allocation by Province as follows (in US$ millions equivalent):
Buenos Aires       55.0
Cordoba            21.0
La Pampa            3.5
Neuquen             9.5
Santa Fe           31.0
TOTAL BANK LOAN   120.0
2.19     The above amounts are  those  agreed with  each Province as loans
that may be 'reasonably' estimated to be absorbed over a three-year
implementation period.  However,  as  this would  be  the first municipal
development project for Argentina, it would be prudent to estimate actual
implementation over a longer period to accomodate the frequently observed
delays in start-up, possible institutional discontinuities, etc. Thus, the
formal implementation schedule would be based on the average disbursement
profile for lines of credit in the region (7.5 years).
2.20     In addition to uncertainties  regarding  the total loan absorptive
capacity over time, there are uncertainties about the relative municipal
loan absorptive capacity between Provinces.    In order to spread the risks
of these uncertainties, as well  as  to reward those Provinces with greater
project implementation capacity, the following arrangements have been
agreed with Central and Provincial Government authorities. The initial
allocation (para. 2.18) would be assured for the first three years of the
project's implementation.   However,  the  legal  documents would establish
that each Province could draw down 'up to' the stipulated amounts during
the first three years of project  implementation.   At the end of the third
year, if not all of the total loan has been committed (ie., a properly
procured contract has been entered into for specific goods, works or
services to be financed under the loan), then a new allocation of the
remaining loan would be determined according to provincial performance
during the first three years of project implementation (para. 3.01(a)(i)).



The formule for this nw  allocation would be as follow.
-- The uncomitted loan amount, If any, remaining at the end of year
three (UL3) is the  total,  accumulated,  loan comittments at the
end of year three (TALCS) subtracted from the total Initial loan
amount (TIL):  UL3 W TIL - TALC3.
Each Province that elects to stay In the project would have the
right to a part of UL3 during year four of projeet impl_mentation.
The loan allocation for year four for Province  (LA41) would be
based on that Province's participation in total, accumulated loan
conmitment during the first three years of project Implementation
(LC3i)t
LA4i - (LC3i1TALC3)*UL3.
-- This procedure would be repeated each year until the proceeds of
the Bank loan are fully withdravn.    For  example, at the end of
year four, Province i's allocation for the next year (LASi) would
be:
LASL  -  (LC4i/TALC4)*UL4, where  LC4i  is  the   mount  of  loan
commitments made to Province i and/or to its Municipalities during
the four years of project execution, TALC4 is the total amount of
loan commitments in four  years,  and  UL4 is the uncommitted loan
amount at the end of year four.
Finsncint Plan
2.21     Because of the  project's  high  social  and institutional impacts
(par-s. 2.44-2.45, and Annex 5), Bank financing of 502 of total eligible
project costs is proposed. With all counterpart funding provided by
Municipalities and/or Provinces, the project's financing plan would be the
following:
Amount
Source          USS Millions        S
Bank                 120            50
Provinces             32            13
Hunicipalities        88            37
TOTAL              240           100
Except for very municipal-specific cases (see Annex 2), provinces would
provide all counterpart funds for technical assistance and training.
Because of the different intergovernmental distribution of service delivery
responsibilities and revenue sharing policies in each Province (see Annex
1),  different  Provincial/Municipal  'mixes'  of  counterpart  funds  for
municipal  investments  are   justified.   Thus, counterpart  funding  for
municipal investments vould  be  as  follow:s   1OOZ  of counterpart from
Municipal funds in the Provinces of Buenos Aires, La Pampa, Neuquen and
Santa Fe; and 1001 of counterpart from Provincial funds in Cordoba. All
expenditures ineligible for Bank financing  (e.s., land and taxes) would be
totally financed by Municipalities.
2.22     All proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent from the Central to
Provincial Governments with which the Bank has a Project Agreement (para.
3.01(a)(iii)) under the same term   and  conditions  as Bank lending to the



14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 14 -
Argentin Republic (except as noted in par&. 2.23), to be established In
Subsidiary  Loan Agreements between   the  Central Government  and  *ach
Province. A Special Account (para. 2.30), in US dollars and with an lnitial
deposit of approximately US$ 5 million, would be established in a financial
institution, satisfactory to the Bank, dsignated as Financial lntermediary
(par- 3.O1(a)(i1)), under a Financial Agency Agreement with the Central
Governmet which would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3 02(b)). The
Financlal  Intemuediary would   receive   directly   from  the  authorized
representative, of the Provincial Governments certified Statements of
Expenditures (80Ss), which would support the Financial Intermediary's
requests to the bank for replenilabent of the Special Account.
2.23     The Central Government would  assume  the cross-currency exchange
risk (par&. 3.01(a)(iv)) but would transfer to the Provinces the US dollar
exchange risk (par&. 3.01(b)(ii)).   Thus, Provincial debt servicing to the
Central  Governmnt would be   denominated   in  terms  of  the  official
(coimercial) exchange rate of  the US  dollar.    In order that the dollar
exchange risk, over which the Provinces have no control, be made reasonably
predictable for Provincial financial planning purposes, the periodic,
dollar-indexed provincial debt service adjustments would be restricted to a
'band' limiting dollar-indexed debt service adjustments to a plus or minus
IOZ deviation from the official inflation rate (as measured by INDEC's
General Wholosale and Consumer Price Indices, weighted equally). If and
when the dollar-indexed, provincial debt service falls outside this band,
then the difference ould be credited to (or capitalized in) the provinces'
outstanding loans. In addition, each province would pay a charge, for
services of the financial Intermediary and of the National Liaison Unit
(par&. 2.26), of up to 12 on loan amounts disbursed (3.01(b)(ii)).
2.24     Onlending of tho proceeds  of  the  Bank  loan  from Provinces to
Municipalities would be on terms and conditions established in subloan
agreements between each Province, Its Provincial lank and Municipalities.
In order to capitalize a Municipal Development Fund in each Province to a
minimum level necessary for project replication, these terms would be
'hardened at least as much as indicated in pars. 2.09.
2.25     Provincial Banks would  serve  as  the provinces' financial agents
for administration of municipal subloans.  Also, proceeds of the Municipal
Development Funds would be deposited In the Provincial Banks, under the
administrative  authority of  the   Provincial  Project  Execution Units.
Municipal repayment of loans would be guaranteed through the Province'.
retention of the Municipality's debt servicing obligations from Provincial
revenue sharing. Indexation of debt service payment by the Municipalities
to the Provinces would be according to the official US dollar exchange rate
(with the same wbands limitations noted in pars. 2.23) in all Provinces
except for Buenos Aires, which would follow official INDEC price Indices.
The precise method of indexation of municipal subloan debt service payment
is not a fundamental condition of project implementation, so long as a
positive, real interest rate compatible with the opportunity cost of
capital in Argentina is achieved. An indexation either according to the US
dollar or to an adequate indicator of internal inflation (such as INDEC
price indices) Is acceptable, and provincial autonomy to choose en
acceptable indexation lnstrument is compatible with project objectives.



15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 15 -
1luDemntation Arraneemente
2.26    Overall supervision responsibility for the project wvuld rest with
the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, but technical supervision would be
delegatod to the Secretariat of Rousing and Environmental Managemnt
(SVOA), Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (par.. 3.01(a)(v)).
The role envisagd for SvoA is uodest, *seentially limited to monitoring
and reporting on project Implementation progress, and it would not require
more than two to three professionals.  A key function of SVOA, through the
project's National Liaison Unit, would be to receive the *smi-annual
performance and annual financial audits from each Province (pres. 2.38-
2.39), to consolit-te these into a project-wide evaluation on a semi-annual
basis, and to submit at least semi-annual progress reports to the Bank for
supervision purposes. The proposed monitoring and reporting experience of
SVOA would Improve Its capacity to transfer the lssons learned from the
proposed  initial operation   to  further operations benefitting  other
provinces.
2.27    Each Province would form a Project Execution Unit (PEU) that would
be primarily responsible for implementation, supervision and evaluation of
the Provincial subproject (for details, see Annex 3). The PEU would not be
a large entity, duplicating the functions and tasks of oxisting agencies.
Rather, it would function under the authority of the Governor to ensure
that, in addition to performing directly all planning, programing,
supervision and reporting duties specified In the Project Agreement, all
provincial ministries  and agencies  necessary  for successful project
Implementation are properly coordinated (par&. 3.O1(b)(iii)). The Bank has
reviewed each Province's proposal for its PEU and found each to be
acceptable. However, in addition to the agreed-to general design, PEM
staffing satisfactory to tho Bank would be a condition of disbursement in
each Province (par&. 3.03(a)).   Furthermore, the Bank's supervislon would
include, with SVOA's assistance, evaluation  of the onnual performance of
each Province's PEU, including  structural and staffing  aspects (pare.
2.38).   If significant  deficiencies  are  identified, then  technical
assistance for the PRU, directed at structural and/or staff strengthening,
would be an obligatory part of the subsequent year's investment program to
be agreed with the Bank (par&. 3.01(b)(viii)).
2.28    Municipal authorities would be  Invited  to propose  annual, or
multi-year, investment plans to  the  PEU  for Inclusion in the province's
program proposal for the subsequent year.  This would take place through a
structured process of consultation on a rolling, annual bais. Annual
Investment Plans, as consolidated and proposed by the province (including
provincial technical assistance  and  training, as well as municipal
Investments), would be reviewed  and  approved  by the  Bank  (pare.
3 .01(b)(iv)), and only subprojects included in these Plans would be
eligible for financing under the project (pare. 3.03(c)).
2.29    Detailed ip lementation arrangements would  be described In each
Province's Project Operations Manual, which each Province would agree not
to amend without the Bank's prior consent (pare. 3.01(b)(v)). In addition
to the project's eligibility criteria (paras. 2.06-2.13), tho Manual would
include, inter alia, subloan  terms  and conditions, guidelines for
procurment, draft tender documents, subloan disbursement procedures,



_ 16 -
guidelines and control procedures for compononts' unit costs, and model
contracts betw"n Province, Provincial  Bank  and Municipality, as well a
the text* of the Project Agr eme nt with the Bank and of the Subsidlary Loan
Agrement with the Central Governmnt (further details In Annex 6).
Procur m_nt
2.30     About 400 unicipalities  in  the  five  Provinceo *rc expected to
participate In the projcet, resulting In a large number of sm*ll and
scattered civil works, each with  a maxium  cost of US$ 500,000 equivalent
(para. 2.13).    Procurement  for  goods  and works  costing  US$  25,000
equivalent or less would be done through international or local shopping,
Involving at least three price quotations. This is expected to account for
approxImately US$ 30 million equivalent, or 131 of total proj3et costs.
Procurement  of  civil works  costing   between  US$  25,000  and  500,000
equivalent would account for approximately US$ 139 million equivalont, or
581 of total project costs, and would be made through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures  acceptablo  to  the  Bank.   Procurement of goods
costing more than US$ 25,000 but less than USS 250,000 *quivalent would be
through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, and would reprosent
approximately USS 47 million, or 202 of total project costs. Procurement
of all goods costing US$ 250,000 equivalent or more would be through
International Compotitive Bidding (ICB) in agreement with the Bak's
Guldelines for Procurement, representing about USS 2 million equivalent, or
12 of total project costs. Consultant services, estimated to cost US$ 10.2
million equivalent, or 42 of total project costs, would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. These arrangements are summarized In
Table 2 (next page), and the Project Operational Manual in each Province
would  include  the  necessary   provisions   to  ensure  that  procurement
procedures are fully compatible with the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement
(see Annex 6 and paras. 3.01(b)(vi) and 3.02(a)(iv)).
2.31     Force Account procedures would  be  used, on an excimptional basis,
by municipalities to oxecute directly civil works, with total force account
procurement of materials not to exceod 102 of the total cost of civil works.
in each province on an annual basis. Moreover, the total cost of materials
purchased to support a given civil work executed undor force account would
not exceed US$ 150,000 equivalent, and would be purchased in *ccordance
with the procedures outlined in pars 2.30 above.
2.32     Provincial   PEU's   would   review,   ex-ante,   all procurement
procedures, documents, bid evaluations and contract awards to ensure that
the agreed procurement process is  properly  carried out.  In addition, all
ICB procedures, documents, bid evaluations and contract awards would be
reviewed ex-ante by the Bank. Because LCB bid packages would be too small
and numerous for effective, ex-ante review by the Bank, such review would
be delegated, primarily, to each Province's Executing Unit. However, in
order to ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, each PM would
submit, during the first year of project execution, six randomly selected
LCB procurement procedures (three for civil works and three for goods) for
ex-ante Bank review, Including bid documents, evaluations and contract
wards. Furthermoro, the performance audit terms of reference (para. 2.38)
in each province would provide for certification thrt the procurements
presented to the Bank for ex-ante review are typical and representative.



-17-
If, after the first year of project inpiementation, the lank's supervision
indates  that  the  agreed  procurement  procedures  are  being  followed
eatisfact.rily, then the Bank's ox-ante revlew of W I bid procedures would
be reduced to two (one for works, one for goods) per year per prow nc. In
all caese, howaeer, the lank would review ILC, International end local
shopping, and force account procurement proceduroe on a ex-yt basis by
s*  ling, and If it wore determined that procursenat we not made folloowi
agreed procedures, tbhn no expenditure for such Ite_ would be financed
out  of  the  proceds  of  the   loan,  and  the  lank would  canel the
corresponding loan amount.
Table 2: PUOCURDENXT NUS?OO
Project Eloment                     Procurement Nthotd                  Total
ICR     ICI     Int./Local   Other   N.A.       Cost
Shonlina
---------------e(US$  illion)---------------
Civil Works
139.2        17.0              11.8     168.0
(73.6)       (9.1)             (0.0)    (82.7)
Epulment. Materials
and Vehicles
-Hun. Infrast.        2.0    46.0         12.0                        60.0
(2.0)  (23.0)       (6.0)                      (31.0)
-Prov. PEUs                    1.0         0.8                         1.8
(0.5)       (0.4)                       (0.9)
Consultina Services
-Prov. PEUs                                          9.6               9.6
(4.8)            (4.8)
-Auditing                                            0.6               0.6
(0.6)            (0.6)
TOTAL           2.0   186.2         29.8      10.2   11.8      240.0
(2.0)  (97.1)      (15.5)      (5.4)  (0.0)   (120.0)
Notes:   Figures in parentheses are the  respectiv, amounts financed by the
Bank.
The N.A. refers to legitimat- project costs for engineering design
and supervision of civil works (estimated *a 72 of total works'
cost), but the Bank would not disburse against this category.
Disbursement
2.33     For withdrawal of  the  proceeds  of  the  proposed Bank lo-n, the
following categories and disbursement percentages are proposed:
(a) for eligible civil works, 53.5Z disbursement against contractors'
certified  receipts   (including   as   legitimate  project  costs
municipal expenditures for engineering design and supervision of
works,  estimated  as   71   of   total   contracted  civil works



- is -
*xpendIturs  bhowver, the withdrwal applications would  not
include direct expenditures for design end supervision, and
neither would be eligible for Bank financang under consulting
servio.a)l
(b) for equipment, aterials and vehicles, 502 disbursement for local
expenditures and 1002 of foreigp experAltures;
(c)  for consulting services,  502  disbursemnt for local expenditure
and 1002 of foreig  expenditure; and
(d) for auditing sorvices (ih e provided by a private firm under a
contract satisfactory to the Jank), 10O2 disbursament for local or
foreign expeaditure.
2.34     For municipal expenditures in  categories  (a), (b) and (c) above,
disbursemats   would   be   authorised   only   after  verification   and
certification, by the PEU according to procedures established In the
Operations Manual, that ependitures resulted from a previously approved
subloan agreement between the Mnicipalityr, the Province and the Provincial
Bank, as the Province's  financial agent.  For Provincial expenditure  In
categories (b), (c) and (d), disbursements would be authorixed only after
certification by the PEU that exponditures resulted from a technical
assistance program (bnefitting the Province and/or Municipalities eligible
according to par&. 2.06) acceptable to the Bank.
2.35     Because of the  large  number of contracts  and relatively small
payments, all disbursements for local expenditures and disbursements for
foreign expenditures up to US$ 250,000 equivalent would be agaist SOEs.
These SOEs would present expenditures by subproject with a breakdown of
outlays for equipment, materials, consultants' services and civil works,
either under contract or by  force  account.    Documentation  for these
expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by
the Provincial Executing  Unit  for periodic  inspection  by  Bank staff.
Disbursements for foreign ependitures of US$ 250,000 or more would be made
againt standard  documntation.    Each  Provincial Executing  Unit would
maintaln adequate records of muicipal project ependitures, and  ach would
prepare consolidated SOs for periodic transmittal to the Bank via the
Financial Intermediary for the Special Account (par&. 2.22).
2.36     In order to encourage  and  reward provincial initlative for rapid
and effective Institutional support for project Implementation, retroactive
financing is recocm_nded, beginning February 1988, for those Provinces that
(a) have a legally constituted Project Execution Unit, with a functioning
staff acceptable to the Bank, (b) comply with all relevant procedures
established In an approved Project Operations Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, and (c) comply with all other terms and conditions of the Loan and
Project Agreemnts. Retroactive loan financing in any Province would be
linited to 10 of that Province's Initial allocation of the total loan
amount (pars. 2.18).
2.37     The estimated   disbursement   schedule  follows   the  regional
disbursement profile of 7.5 years (pars. 2.19), and this schedule is
presented  In  Annex  7, Table   5. Assuming  expenditures  eligible  for



- 19 -
retrosotive finaning beginnin  In  ebruary  1988 sa  los  effectiveness by
late Jln  1988, than the  project's  ompletlon  data mid be Deember 31,
1994, sa  the  proposed  closin   date would  be  June  30,  1995.  It to
expected, bouer r, that the proj et wod be executed nsot rapily the  the
regio al profile (Pares. 2.19-2.20),  end  a hborter exotimo periot would
inrese the bef its of the  project  *ad Ladiost  tht the Povimwe  bhao
potential  to   mobllise   efficiently  more   resource    for  aditiomal
lntrestructure lnvestmets.
Accounts ad Audits
2.38     Separate Project Agreements  midul   be  mad*  with  each Province
establishing Its respossibilitles, including that of maintaining a separate
Project Account. The Sp eial Account (pars. 2.22) and the Project Account
In each Province and ia each participating Municipality miud be audited by
external, Independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. for Munlelpalities
and Provincial Executing Units, an annual audit of the financial statements
of the Project Accounts, and including a separate opinion on withdrawal
applications made on the basis of Statment of txpenditures, would be
furnished to the Bank not later than four montbs aftor the end of each
fiscal year. In addition, each province would provide to the Bank s*mL-
annual performance audits within 60 days from the date they are lssuod.
Thee performance audits would provide evaluations of the compliance by all
participating provincs and municipalities with all legal agreements,
including provisions of the Project Operations Manual, reched with the
Bank, province, provincial   intermediaris,  and mnicipalities  (par-.
3.01(b)(vii)). The National Liaison Unit within SVOA would consolidate all
provincil financial and performance audits and provide an overall project
progress report to the Bank on a semi-annual basis (para. 2.26). Audit of
the Special Account mould be done according to standard country-wide
procedures (para. 3.01(a)(vi)).
2.39     Special, *emi-annual, performance audits  are essential to project
design in order to make effective Bank supervision manageable In the fce
of a large number of sub-projects spread over an enormous geographical area
and within numerous political and administrative jurisdictions. BecaUse of
the demndlng audit requirements of the project, and of the need to "ssure
timely  compliance with   udit  agreements   and  to minimise  risks  of
Interruptions of disbursements through SO procedures, the Bank ould
finance 1OOZ of audit  xpenditure when thee are incurred by private firnm
acceptable  to  the  Bank  (see pars.  2.33).    If  the  flnancial and/or
performance audits ldentify significant irregularities in any municipality,
then the Project Operational Manual would provide that, as a condition of
recelving project funding for municipal investments in the subsequent audit
period, the  province would   provide  a  technical assistance  progrem,
acceptable to the Bank, focused on eliminating the observed lrregularities.
And,  if  thes   irregularitie   persist  for  another  audit  period, that
municipality may be declared ineligible for subsequent project financing
(par&. 3.01(b)(viii)).
Financial Impact
2.40     Municipal creditworthines  and  component  eligibility  criteria
(paras. 2.07-2.08) vmld ensure that all municipalities that participate In



K                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~t  -
the project  would   be   financially   strengthened   bccause  of  their
participation. Dimensioning of the project has included cons iderations of
historical levels of actual municipal  investments (para. 2.18 and Annex 4)
so that the ipact on -muicipalities receiving project loans would be to
increae ,the rate and quality of service coverage in general and to xpand
service delivery  in poorer  area  in particular  (soe  Annex  5).   For
municipalities  that will  bo   oligible   initially  only  for technical
saslitance, because they do not meet the creditworthinesi criteria, the
project ould focus provincial asistance on Improving municipal financial
performnce so that they may be eligible for physical investment loans in
the future.
2.41     From  the perspective   of   direct  project  beneficiarie,  the
project's financial impaet must be positive if two key asumptions are mets
(a) benefitting families and firms are rational md accurate in estimating
that proposed infrastructure  benefits,  as  cpAptalized  in their property
values, will be greater than the costs thev rast pay (generally through
betterment levies, sae para. 2.43, and Annex. !P) in order to receive the
ser'7ice; and (b) beneficiaries agree to finance infrastructurk improvements
on a voluntary  bass.    Because  the  experience with  the financing of
municipal infrastructure expansion in Argentina indicates that both of
these assumptions are reasonable, the risk of negative project financial
impact on direct beneficiaries is very low.
2.42     Evaluation of the project's  impact  on  provincial finances is of
broad concern only in the Province of Cordoba, which proposes to provide
all counterpart funds for eligible project expenditures from Provincial
sources (in the other provinces, all physical investment counterpart
funding would be municipal, see  para. 2.21).   If  the project is fully
implemented in Cordoba over three years, then the annual demand for
provincial counterpart funds would represent 62 of total Provincial
expenditures for transfers (considering the 1986 executed provincial budget
as representative), and 842 of discretionary grants specifically allocated
to municipalities (see Annex  4, Table  2).    In addition, Cordoba's new
constitution (para. 1.11) provides for a special revenue sharing category:
the 'Municipal Development Fund', which should not be confused with the
project's Municipal Development Fund to be capitalized in each province
through repayment of proceeds of the Bank loan (para. 2.09). One percent
of all revenue sharing with municipalities will be allocated to this
revenue sharing fund' and the 1988 provincial budget provides that all of
this fund will be used as counterpart for the proposed project. In other
provinces, the only provincial expenditures that will be required by the
project are counterpart funds for the provincial technical assistance
program (approximately 52 of total project expenditures) and the cost of
operating the Project Execution Unit.  Thus, Implementation of the project
over three years would be affordable from the perspective of Provincial
finances, and project implementation delays resulting from insufficient
provincial  counterpart  funding would  not   be  a significant  risk  if
provincial political committment to the project continues (paras. 2.48-
2049).
Economic Impact
2.43     The weighted  average  of the  internal economic  rate of return
(IERR) estimates for all investment components evaluated (water supply,



- 21 -
sewerage, strest lighting and paving) In the five provinces is 38.52. The
weighting mechanism used is the component's estimated cost a* a proportion
of th. the project's total etimated cost. The components included in the
economic evaluation represent 57.62 of this total estimated cost. The
average Ihe range from 19.12 for  *ewerag  components to 84.42 for street
lighting.    Sensitivity  analyses   rovealed  thats  (a)  increasing  cost
estimates by 202 lowered the average rate of roturn for all components in
all provinces to 31.12; (b) lowering benefit estimates by 202 reduced the
average IERR to 29.92; and  (c)  i!.creasing  costs and reducing benefits by
20S resulted in an average IERR of 23.72. Only under this most pessimistic
scenario would one component (sewerage) have an IERR approximately equal to
the 122 rate  of  discount  estimated  as  the  opportunity cost of capital
(Annex 5, par&. 8).
Poverty Impact
2.44     The project would havo  a  significant  social impact through: (a)
financing an increase In 'adequate' service levels for water and sewerage
(the lack of which is widely used as a poverty indicator In Argentina, see
Annex 5, pras. 9-12); (b) providing increased affordability for these
basic services, permitted by the project's relatively long-term credit
financing, which would permit longer beneficiary repayment periods (Annex
5, Table 5); and (c) employment generation for un- and low-skilled labor.
2.45     In 1980, there were  approximately  390  thousand households with
linadequate" sanitary facilities in the eligible municipalities. This
'deficit" is equivalent to almost 1.5 times the number of households in
Gran Rosario (the second largest metropolitan area in Argentina). Over
half of the units with *inadequate' sanitary facilities in the five
provinces and almost one-quarter of those in the country as a whole were
located in the eligible  municipalities  In  1980.   Bank financing for the
project would permit significant increases in beneficiary repayment periods
(up to two or three times the typical repayment periods of two to four
years currently In practice). For example, increasing the repayment period
from three to six years (for a given interest rate) would reduce the
beneficiaries' monthly payment  by  nearly  half.   In general, beneficiary
affordability is more sensitive to repayment period than interest rates a
decrease in an annual interest rate from, for example, 122 to 8.52 would
reduce monthly repayments by only 6% for a three year repayment period.
Finally, the project would create approximately 58 thousand personlyears of
construction work.
Environmental Impact
2.46     The project would promote for  the first time a systematic, inter-
provincial,   concern   with   the   environmental   impact   of municipal
infrastructure investments. Building on the relatively new environmental
legislation introduced in  the  Provinces  of  Cordoba  and  Santa Fe, each
Province's Project Operational Manual would include specific safeguards for
environmental protection and enhancement.
2.47     The project would have a diffused and generally positive impact on
the conservation and enhancement of the physical environment. Properly
designed and constructed subprojects such as street paving, storm drainage



- 22-
ad landscaping produce significont reductions In erosion and, frequently,
In th  spreading of unsanitary material.   Improvments in rural road and
small bridges also belp to control soil and vegetation erosion. Two areas,
sewerage and garbage disposal, hxowevor, will require special safeguards.
Because of the project's civil works' cost liultation of US$ 500,000
equivalent, the project will not addrser directly the eavirormental b pact
of the design and operation of, for exmple, sewerage treatsent plants or
sanitary landfills. HBwever, for these and other investsents potentially
hazardous to the   nvirorment,  all provincial Manuals would include the
condition that any component, or larger infrastructure system of whlch the
coponent is a; part, that does not fully comply with environmental
protection legislation  would  not be  eligible  for  financing  under the
project (para. 3.01(b)(Ix)). Furtherore, compliance with this condition
would be specifically included in the terms of reference for ach
province's semi-annual performance udit (para. 2.38).
Risks and Saftruards
2.48     The main risk is lack of continuity in political comitment to the
project at the provincial and/or municipal levels. This could occur with a
sharp political change resulting in reductions in project counterpart funds
and/or in effective management of the project by the Province's Project
Zxecution Unit.
2.49     Because of the  large  demand  for municipal infrastructure (Annex
1), and of the general lack of domestic, long-term financing, as well as
the broad  support  for  decentralization  (with  this  support  crossing
political party lines), however, these risks are considered reasonable.
Furthermore, the  Loan Agreement  would  provide  that  If  significant
implementation delays occur in some provinces, then the initial total
project cost allocation by Province would be adjusted to allocate more
funds to those provinces with demonstrated greater implementation capacity
(para. 2.20).



^ 23 -
III. AGREEENTS REACHED AND RECOflENDUTIONS
3.01     During negotiations , assurances were obtalned, *a follows.
(a) From the Central Goveriment tha t
(1)     if not all of the  proceeds  of  th. Bank loan are withdrawn
three years after the date of loan effoctiveness, then the
remaining proceeds of the Bank loan will be reallocated (on
an annual basis thereafter until the loan ts fully disbursed,
or  until  the  loan's   closing   date)  according  to  each
province's (1) willingness to continue in the project and (2)
proportional participation in previous withdrawals of the
proceeds of the loan (para. 2.20);
(ii)    it will open and maintain,  in  US dollars, a Special Account
in   a   financial   institution   designated   as  Financial
Intermediary on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.22);
(iLL)   all of the proceeds of  the  Bank  loan will be onlent to the
provinces with which the Bank has a Project Agreement (para.
2.22);
(iv)    it will fully assume  the cross-currency exchange risk (para.
2.231
(v)     it will designate and provide  adequate support to a National
Liaison  Unit  within  the   Secretariat   of Housing  and
Environmental Management of the Ministry of Public Health and
Social Affairs, and that this Unit will provide overall
project implementation supervision, including consolidation
of semi-annual performance and financial audits from each
Province into project  progress  reports  In  support of Beak
supervision (pares. 2.26-2.27); and
(vi)    it will have  the  Special Account  audited  according  to
standard, country-wide procedures agreed with the Bank (para.
2.38).
(b) From the Provincial Governments that they will:
Mi)     establish and maintain Municipal  Development Funds, the net
proceeds of which will be, except as the Bank may otherwise
agree,   used   exclusively    for   further   onlending   to
municipalities at positive real interest rates (para. 2.09);
($$)    assume the US dollar to Austral exchange risk, and pay a loan
service charge of up to 12 of loan amounts disbursed (para.
2.23);
($ii) establish, adequately staff and otherwise support, In a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, Project Execution Units
during the entire project execution period (para. 2.27);



- 24 -
(Iv)    submdt timely, annual lnvestsent program proposals (including
=unicipal Investments and provincial technical asistance end
training) for Bank review and approval (para. 2.28);
(v)     approve and carry  out  the  program  in  accordance with the
Project Operations Manual, and not amend this Manual without
the lank's prior consent (para. 2.29);
(vI)    carry out  procurement  in  accordance with  Blnk guldelines
(pares. 2.30-2.32);
(vii)   have the financial statements of the Projct Accounts in each
province and participating  municipality  audited annually by
external, indelpndent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
have *eml-annual evaluations of the compliance with all
agreements entered into under the project provided through
performance audits executed by external, independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (pares. 2.38-2.39);
(viii)  If   significant    deficiencies    in   provincial   program
implementation are identified in audits of the Project
Account  and/or  the   PEU,   propose  appropriate  technical
assistance  ior  the  PEU  as   an  obligatory  part  of  the
s*bsequent year's Investment program (para. 2.27), and if
significant  irregularities  in  municipal  accounts  andlor
performance are identified in the periodic audits, make
further project funding for physical investments in that
municipality conditioned to a technical assistance program,
acceptable to the Bank, focused on eliminating the observed
ltregularities (para. 2.39); and
(ix)    carry out all environmental  protection measures, as provided
In the Project Operations Manual (para. 2.47);
3.02     The following would bo Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  subsidiary loan agreemnts between  the  Central Government and at
least three Provinces (para. 2.22) that have (i) a legally
established Municipal Development Fund (para. 2.09), (ii) legally
established, adequately staffed and otherwise supported Project
Execution Units (para. 2.27), (iii) formally approved Project
Operations Manuals (para. 2.29), (iv) agreed to exempt all
contracts for goods, works and services to be financed under the
project from all legal and regulatory provisions limiting the
international procurement of such goods, works and services (par&.
2.30), and (v) valid and binding Project Agreements with the Bank
(para. 2.38);
(b) execution of a Financial Agency Agreement between the Central
Government and the Financial Intermediary (para. 2.22); and
(c)  formal designation, with adequate  staffing  and other support, of
the National Liaison Unit of SVOA (para. 2.26).



25 -
3.03     The following would be Conditions of Diabursenent:
(a) for all provinces not included in 3.02(a), *11 of the conditions
noted therein;
(b) in all provinces, audit reports acceptable to the Dank, and when
Irregularities are  reported,  adequate  measurs  to correct then
(puras. 2.27 and 2.39); and
(e)  in all provinces,  all  new  subprojcts  must  bc  Included in an
Annual Investment Plan approved by the Bank (par&. 2.28).
Recomondation
3 04     With the  above  assurance  and  conditions,  the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 120.0 million equivalent, to be
repaid over a period of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the
lank's standard variable Interest rate and fees.



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 26
ARGENTINA
CNICIPAL DEVELOMPMET PiOJECT
Oeneral Demoarauhlc *nd Economic Trends and
Cheraterristics of Partictuatina Provinces
A.       DEMOGRAPHIC TRENDS
General Trends In Population and Hbousehold Growth
1.      The longstanding trend of lncreasing urbanisation continued during
the 1970s, with total urban population of Argentina growing at 2.42 per
year, to 23.8 sillion In 1980, while the rural population declined from 5.1
to 4.7 million (see Table  1).   Thus,  the concentration of population in
urban aresl increased from 702 in 1970 to 831 in 1980, and it is expected
that thia trend will continue  in the  future.   INDEC projects that urban
population will grow by 5 million (2.5S per year) over the 1980190 period
to 28.2 million In 1990.  With  thi  growth, the share of total population
living In urban areas will rise to almost 861 In 1990.
2.       Ther ws, however,  a  striking  reversal of another longstanding
trend In the 1970st   The  share  of  the  total population of the country
living In the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Region (AMRA) dropped from 36.22 in
1970 to 35.92 in 1980. INDEC projecto a further decline to 35.22 by 1985.
Over the 1970180 period, the urban agglomerations in the 500,000 to one
million group increased their percontage of total population (from 7 to 12
percent),2 and the concentration of population In all urban agglomerations
of over 500,000  group  (including  the AMBA)  $ncreased  from 431 to 472.
However, this increase is due in large part to the entry, by 1980, of three
new agglomerations in the 500,000 to 1 million population group (Gran
Mendoza, Gran La Plata and Gran San Miguel de Tucuman). The number of
cities In the 100 thousand to 500 thousand population range increased from
12 to 13 over the 1970180 period, but this group's participation in total
population decreoased from 132 to 112. Finally, the cities of under 100,000
Inhabitants proved to be dynamic, lncreoasing their percentage of total
population from 232 in 1970 to 252 in 1980, and their number from 596 to
693.
3.       In sumary, there ws  a  slight  tendency for decentralization of
population growth away from the AMBA, with the concentration of Argentina's
urban population residing In the region dropping from 45.92 in 1970 to
43.01 In  1980.   This  decentralization  is  undoubtedly  related  to the
11 The Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos (INDEC) defines urban as
a locality with 2,000 or more Inhabitants. A locality is a settlement
with 10 or more housing units with separations of less than 100 meters
mong the units.
21 There are a number of different table which present the evolution of
the urban system with different class limits for the city sizes: The
World Bank, Araentinas Public Sector Investment Review, World Bank,
1986, p. 94.   Ministerio  de  Salud y Accion  Social, Secretaria de
Vivienda y Ordenamento Ambiental, Protrama Global de Financiamento de
Infrasestructura v Eauiiamiento Urbanos, Argentina 1985.



- 27 -
Anx I
Page 2 of 26
decentralisation of economic activity (discussed In Section I below).
Hene, the much discuassd objective of spatial decentralisation of economic
activitits and population fron the Metropolitan Region will be moving In
the direction of existing demographic trends, not against thm.3
4.       The rate of growth  of  total private households wa conasiderably
higher then that of total population residing In these households over the
1960/80 period (2.41 versus 1.72, sea Table 2).4 The policy Implcatione of
this phenoCmnon are quite important.   If this trend continues, deogrephic
demand for housing and urban services will continue to rise more rapidly
than urban population per so.   It  appears however, that this will not be
the cae, over the 1980190  period.   The INDEC population projectiomn show
that the size of the 20 to 29 age group will be only slightly larger in
1990 than in 1980. Thus, the  total Aumber of households formed should be
about tho same as during the 1970s. The reason for this is that fertility
rates droppod rapidly during the 1950. and 1960s. This flattened out the
age groups near the base of the age pyramid In 1980, meaning that the
incraoe In young people entering the prime household formation ages will
slow during the 1980s. However, as Table 3 shows, the growth of the 20 to
29 age group will pick up dramatically again in the 1990s, as the children
born to fmilies formed in the 1970s begin to enter the 20 to 29 age group.
This kind of wave action' is, of course, common in demographic growth.
Population and Household Growth by Eliglibility for the Municiual
Develovpmnt Proiect
5.       Tablos 4 - 6 show  population  and household growth for 1970/90 by
eligibility to participate In the Municipal Development Project. All
municipalitIes5 In the Provinces of La Pampa and Nouquen are eligible.
However, the rural area outside municipal boundaries is excluded in
Neuquen. In the Province of Cordoba, only the Capital is ineligible, and
only the Municipalities of Santa Fe and Rosario are not eligible in the
Province of Santa Fe.   In  the  Province  of  Buenos Aires, all of the 19
Partidos of the metropolitan region are ineligible, as are the localities
of Mar del Plata in the Partido of General Pueyrredon and Bahia Blanca in
the Partido of the same name.   All  of  the other localities in these two
partidos will be eligible, except the rural areas located outside of all of
these localities. In the Partido of La Plate, the locality of La Plata is
not eligible, but many of the outlying localities are eligible (see Table
7). The Attachment  to  this  Annex  provides further details on municipal
eligibility.
31 This decentralization is discussed in two recent book_s D.F. Cavallo
and J.A. Zapata, El Desafio Federal (Buenos Airest Planeta, 1986). M.
Quadri Castillo, La Argentina Descentralizada (Buenos Aires, Tenms,
1986).
41 Unfortunately, it is not possible to compare the 1970 Census results on
households with those of 1980, due to sampling problem with the 1970
census.
5/ The  term  municipalities  is  used  to  refer  to  all  types of local
govervment, including comisiones de fomento e comisiones vecinales.
These latter entities are normally smaller comunlities.



-28 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 26
6.       Initially, it wa  proposed  that municipalties  forming port of
urban agglomerations crossing several municipal jurisdictions, as defined
by INDZC, would be ineligible to participate In the project, in order to
avoid  problems  resulting  from   the  interdependence  of  infrastructure
investment decisions when more than one jurisdiction is involved. Field
examination showed, however, that the definition of urban agglomeration
used by INDEC i, inadequate  for  the  purposes  of the projct.  The INDEC
definition is based on general functional interdependence and provides a
suitable spatial unit for provision of statistical data. However, using
the INDEC concept would have resulted in the exclusion of localities which
are independent in terms of the kinds of infrastructure that the project
would finance. It wa, therefore, decided to define conurbation in terms
of this physical interdependence of infrastructure. In addition to being
more relevant for the project, this definition would Increase its poverty
impact, as many of the peripheral municipalities of urban agglomerations,
that would have been excluded under INDEC's definition, would be eligible
under the proposed operational definition of eligibility.
7.       The  population  of  the  eligible  municipalities  grow  from 5.2
million in 1970 to 6.0 millin in 1980 (1.5Z per year), and is projected to
reach 7.0 million by 1990 (see  Tables  4  and  5).   In 1980, 21.7% of the
total population of Argentina and 37.41 of that of the fiv, participating
provinces  lived  in  the  eligible  municipalities  (see  Table  6).   The
projected growth of 920 thousand in these eligible municipalities over the
1990s represents 18.61 of the total projected population increase for
Argentina over this period.
B.       ECONOMIC ASPECTS
8.       Table 8 provides an overview of the trends in economic growth over
the 1970180 period for the five provincees.    The rates of growth of Gross
Regional Product (GRP) were very much higher in the four provinces outside
of Buenos Aires. The slowest rate of growth was registered by the Federal
Capital. Neuquen was the fastest growing, while Cordobs, La Pampa and
Santa Fe grew at a rate approximately double that of the Province of Buenos
Aires. Given these rates of growth, the relative participation of all of
the participating provinces except Buenos Aires either remined constant or
increased. Both the Province of Buenos Aires and the Federal Capital lost
in the relative share of the total product, as they grew at rates much
lower than the average for the country as a whole.
9.       While the GRP per capita of the Province of Buenos Aires fell over
the 1970/80 period, that of the other four provinces increased at rates of
from 11.5% for La Pampa to 41.11 for Neuquen. Por this reason, all four of
these provinces had ner capita GRP much higher then that of Buenos Aires in
1980. For example, the GRP per capita of Cordoba was 11.8Z higher than
that of Buenos Aires; and Neuquen,  76 6Z  higher.  Note, however, that the
nor capita GRP of the Federal Capital was  3 times higher than that of the
Province of Buenos Aires and that it increased by over 18X during the
decade.
10.      Regional account data  for  all  five  provinces are not available
after 1980, but the data on employment in manufacturing from the Economic
Census of 1985 would lead to the conclusion that essentiallly the same



- 2tA-
Page 4 of 26
tendency tward dacentralisation of activity away from the AMA has
prevailed. Argentina lost 10.01 of Its manufacturing jobs over the 1975185
petiod (Table 9). The Provinces of La Psapa and Neuquen actually gained
manufacturing Jobs, as did the total of the other provinces outsdle of the
five provinces and of the  AMA.    Santa  Fe, Cordoba and the part of the
Buenos Aires outside of  the  AMA  lost  manufacturing jobs at lower rates
than  the  Metropolitan  Region.    In  all,  the  ANA  lost  167 thousand
manufacturing jobs over the pertiod (-20.02).    For the part of the country
not included in the five provinces and the Federal Capital, the rate of job
formtion was very high (23.42 or 54 thousand jobs). It is clear (Tables 9
and 10) that considerable decentralization of Industrial jobs occurred over
the 1974185 period, as all areas outside of the AMU increased their shares
of industrial employment.   Evon  so,  48.52  of  all these jobs ware still
located in the AMBA In 1985, down from 54.62 in 1974.
C.       INTER-GOVERNHMENTAL TRANSFERS AND THE CAPACITY TO PLAN CAPITAL
INVESTMENTS AT THE MUNICIPAL LEVEL
11.      Conceptually, there are  two  major reasons for inter-governmental
fiscal transfers  (a)  because  of  legal andlor administrative attributes,
one level of government has a comparative advantage in raising revenues
over other lev1el of government, and it is therefore more efficient for it
to collect a revenue and then share it with the other levels of government;
and  (b)  a  higher  level   of   government  is  not  satisfied with  the
distributional impact of the fiscal base status auo of other governments
under its jurisdiction and centralizes the collection of certain revenues
so  that  redistributional   objectives   may   be   achieved  through  the
intergovernmental fiscal transfer  system.    When sub-national governments
are expected to have a significant role in providing public services,
public sector efficiency requires that sub-national governments receive
fiscal transfers in a sufficient amount so that, combined with a reasonable
sub-national government own-source fiscal effort, these governments may at
least continue to maintain their current level of services.
12.      In  addition  to  quantity,  predictability  of inter-governmental
transfers  is  important  to  public  sector management  efficiency.    In
Argentina, high variations in the annual amounts transferred to the
municipalities  from  the  Federal   and  provincial  governments  make  it
difficult for them to effectively plan their capital investments. The
Public Sector Investment Review sums up the financial plight of the
municipalities as follows: "Financially, municipalities constitute the
weakest level of  government  in Argentina.    Programming and multi-year
investment planning at the municipal level is generally inadequate. ...Ad
hoc federal sector allocations and direct transfers from the provinces
increase the municipalities' financial dependency and create a high degree
of uncertainty regarding the financing of physical infrastructure... Thus,
the scheduling of medium or longer term works and capital investment
progr mming becomes largely academic, and the actual works cost more than
necessary because they are often undertaken on a piecemeal basis with
frequent interruptions."6
13.      In  order  to  identify   Improvements  in  the  effectiveness  of
Argentina's inter-governmental fiscal tranfers system, it is necessary to
61 OD. cit. p. xix.



-30 -
Amx I
Psge 5 of 26
Identify the trcanfer allocation criteri^, which may be classified as
follow
(a)     ltralt d tlutLoD   The taxes  collected by the revenue sharing
entity are divided accordin   to  the  proportion of the total tax
collected la eah jurisdictlon.   In this case, the revenue sharer
just acting as a tax collector for the other entity.
(b)      Fiscal Zff IcISe      In this  case, allocation of the shared funds
to basod on soe ceasure of the level or the increaJe In tax
receipts. for *x _l1, the distribution of the receipts of a
given tax might be b ed on the total tax Oeffort' of the
munilpality.
(c)     *baR ctgQ_btIn:   Redistributional criteria  Include population,
surfce area, equal shares, the Inverse of population sise,
indicators  of  underdevelopent,  poverty  and  unestisfied basic
needs. The higher the positive correlation of the criteria with a
jurisdiction's  total   tax   receipts,   the   lower   the  total
redistributive Impact.  To  the  extend  that  population slzs is
nomally more highly and directly correlated with total tax
receipts (rather then  such  criteria  as  surface  area or equal
shores) its reditributive impact will be lower. Redistributive
impact Is highest where the criteria are lnversely correlated with
total tax receipts,  as  is  generally  the  case with poverty or
underdevelopuent criteria. It Is, therefore, useful to divide the
redistributive   criteria  Into  two   subgroups:  proportional
redistribution (population, surface area or equal shares) and
comnensatori   redistribution   (inverse   of   population   *ise,
development gap, etc.).
Federal Tranferro to the Provinces
14.     The intitutional mechani_ms  for  tranferring  resources from the
Argentin  Republic to the provinces  are  complex.  for an overview, these
mechanism may be classlfied by the following characteristics that can be
suasisod in a 2 x 2 martrist 1) automatic or discretionary; 2) earmarked
for a particular use *eg highways, housing, *tc) or free allocation by
the lotal governments
Free Allocation       Earmarked
Automatic            a                   c
Discretionary        b                   d
15.     Of most relevance to  the proposed  project are federal transfers
over which provinces have allocation control, types a and b of the matrix:
(a)     Federal Revenue Sharing (Covarticipacion Federal) under Law 20.021
and Royalties for natural resource production. Royalties will not
71 Por a much more detailed analysis of these transfers, seet Alberto
Porto, Anallsis del Impacto de los Anortes del Tesoro Nacional sobre
l-s  Finansas   Provinciales   (Buenos   Aires:   Consejo   Federal  de
Inversiones, 1986).



- 31 -
Page 6 of 26
be delt with  bhre  becausw   moe  of  the  five provices under
consideration disttibutes thm to municipalities
(b)      Discretionary Grants (Asortes del Tesoro Nacional)
Because  tboy  are  normlly  not   shared with  unicipalitie  and  have
relatively limited direct institutional impact at the local level, this
Annex does not discuss the following two types
(c)      Automatic, *-rmark4 tranfors  for  the  hlihg y dovelopment fund
(Cosarttleticion Vial) and social security funds tranfcrred to pay
pensions.
(d)      Discretionary, *rmarked  trasfers  for  the Regional Developeant
Fund (FDR), the Speciel  Fund  for Ilectrification of the Interior
(FIPDU) and the Natinal Housing Fund (FrY!vI). Both of these two
types are distributed back to the provinces using different
criteria than types a and b.
16.      Table 11 shows that the  percentages of total Federal transfers to
local  goveriments  through   these   four   channels  (abed)  have  varied
tremendously over the years. For example, the total amount transferred via
Revenu Sharing dropped from 66.22 In 1980 to only 20.11 In 1984, while the
total from Discretionary Grants increased from only 52 in 1980 to 38.71 in
1984. In particular, Table 12 shows that, although Discretionary Grants
hsve tended to rise to compensate drops in the Revenue Sharing and vice
verts, the total amount going to the provinces has also been temporally
unstable. For the 1980184 period, the annual amounts for Revenue Sharing
ranged from US$1.0 billion to US$3.2 billion versus US$267 million to
US$2.3 billion for Discretionary  Grants.    It  should  be noted that the
percentage  of   the   total   transferred   by   Revenue  Sharing  dropped
precipitously from 92.32 in 1980 to only 35.11 In 1984.8 Thus, the
importance of Discretionary Grants had begun to rise even before the
Revenue Sharing law expired at the end of 1984.
The Criteria Used for Distribution of Federal Revenue Sharina
17.      From 1973 through 1984,  Federal Revenue Sharing to the proviwces
was governed by a series of  laws  that defined not only the percentages of
different federal taxes to be distributed, but also the critoris for
distribution of these resources among the provinces.9 Immediately after the
law 20.021 expired in 1984, *the central government continued.. as If the
8/ Porto discusses the resons for these fluctuations: op. cit. pp. 88 -
106.
91  This revenue sharing was originally  regulated by Law 20.221 of 1973
which suffered various  modifications  over the  years.   However, the
basic structure survived  until  1984, when the prevailing legislation
expired. For discussions of the evolution of this system, sees H.
Nunes zinana and A. Porto, Distribucion de la Couarticiuacion Federal
de Impuestos: Analysis y Alternatives (Buenos Aires: CFI, 1982). Jorge
Macon, Perspectivas del Sistema do Coparticinacion (Buenos Aires, CFI,
1985).



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 26
rcvenue-sharing arrangem.nts had been in effect."10 In both 1985 and 1986,
Interim agreemente allocated rovenue sharing In accordance with what
provinco  had received In previous years.11    In April 1986, the executive
brancb sent a proposal to Congress that would giva more weight to
capensatory redistributional criteria.12 Under the existing and proposed
systmo_, excise, inom, sales and inheritance taxes are shared. Under
these Revenue Sharing lawa, the aount golng to a province Is determined In
two basic steps.   The  first  step  (pre-primary  nd prinary distribution)
detemines the total Amount to be divided among the provincea in tho
secondary  distribution.      In   other  words, prc-primary  and  primary
distribution determine the 'sie of the pie" to be divided In the secondary
distribution. At the primary step, tranfers to automatic (e.g. social
security) and discretionary (e.g. FONAVI) earamrked funds are allocated.
Then, the remaining amount Is divided so follows Federal government
(46.52), th Municipal Government of the Federal Capital (1.8), Tierra del
Fuego * Is1as d-l Atlantico Sur (0.21), the Regional Development Fund
(3.02), and all  of  the  Provinces  (48.52).    There  is, therefore, some
spatial redlstribution of resources in this primary stage. Between 1978
and 1981 the central government transferred responsibility for providing a
number of important services  to  the  provinces (hospitals, schools, sewr
and water systems) without a compensating transfer of financial resources.
In other words, there was  a  decentralization of responsibility but not of
resources. The cost of providing these services would have required an
Increase of about 222 of tho tctal amount shared.13 Provinces have, of
course, been hard pressed to meet these now responsibility.
18.      In the secondary distribution step, the total amount set aside for
the provinces in the primary distribution step is then divided among them,
according to the following criteria under the law which expired in 1984s
652 is divided in direct proportion to total population; 252, In inverse
proportion  to  the  level  of  development  as  measured  by  a  number of
indicators (Including housing quality, cars per capita nd educational
level); 102, in Inverse proportion to population density for only those
provinces with density  levels  under  the  national  overage.   All of the
criteria   used   In   this    secondary   distribution   are,   therefore,
redistributive, and 352 ara of the compensatory type mentioned earlier,
which have a very much higher redistributive impact.14 Table 13 permits
comparlson of the percentage distribution of Revenue Sharing funds and
Discretionary  Grants with  the  distribution  of  population  (which, as
discussed earlier, is  Itself  a  redistributive  criteria).   If secondary
distribution were done only according to population, Buenos Aires would
10, A. H. Petrel, "Fiscal Relations Between the Central and Provincial
Governments of Argentina," World Bank, xerox, 1987, p. 8.
11/ For more details, see Petrei, oD. cit., p.9.
121 ibid., pp.10-11.
131 Ibid., pp. 6-7.
141 The proposed law sent to the congress would increase the weight on the
development gap criteria by 10 percent points. Petrei, op. cit., pp.
10-11.



-33-
Amex I
Page 8 of 26
have received 43.52 of the total.   Howover, under the Revenue Sharing Iawo|
It received only 28.3Z (see colume 2). Buenos Alres faired even worse with
the Discretionary Grants, receiving only 17.52 of the total In 1985. The
ladies of concentration of this so    table  show that both Neuquen and La
Pam  received about twice as such as  they would have If the resourecs had
bee  tranforred on the basis of population.  In  umJary, the criteria used
In Federal Revenue Sharin are exclusively rodistributive in character and
the redistributive Impact very high, even when compared with population
distribution. Proposed ligislation would lncrease this redistributive
mpact.
Rovenue Sharint fror Provinces to Hunlcitnlities
19.      Table 14 presents a summary of the percentages used In the prilary
distribution of Federal  Revenue  Sharing  funds  and  provincial taxes for
distribution to the municipalitles.  The provinces vary greatly not only in
what taxs they share, but also In the percentages that they allocate for
distribution  among  the  different   municipalties.    For  example,  the
Provinces of Buenos Aires and La Pampa set asIde a constant percentage of
almost all of its taxes and Federal revenue sharing to be divided, while
the Province of Santa Fe allocates widely ranging proportions of the
different  provincial  taxes   for   secondary   distribution   among  the
Municipalities.
20.      Table 15 shows  that  the  total  amounts  transferred by the five
provinces to municipal government varied widely for the years 1970, 1979,
1973 and 1984.   For  example, the  Index  showes  that  the total amount
transferred to Cordoba in 1983 was  20.32  higher  than 1984 and about the
same in 1984 as In 1979. For Neuquen, the amount transferred was over 302
higher than 1984 in 1983, but about 272 lower than 1984 In 1979. Clearly,
such temporal instability In the transfers makes effective planning of
capital investments difficult. The cause of these fluctuations are the
variations iln the amounts received through Federal Revenue Sharing and
other transfers, as well as In provincial tax rocelpts. The Impact of this
temporal instability at the municipal level depends on the degree of
provincial dependence on revenues derived from Federal sources (including
royalties for extraction  of  natural  resource).   This dependence varies
greatly. In 1985, for *xample, only 37.52 of the total revenue of the
Province of Buenos Alres was from Federal sources, versus 56.22 for Santa
Fe, 61.22 for Cordoba, 77.62 for La Pampa and 82.32 for Neuquen.15
21.      Table 16 shows that the criteria used In secondary distribution of
resources to the municipalities are predominately redistributive In nature,
except for the Provinces  of La Pampa  and  Neuquen.   Even for these two
provinces, 252 of secondary distribution in La Pempa and 402 in Neuquen is
done using redistributive criteria.    For  Buenos Aires, the criteria used
are exclusively redistributive, and for both Santa Fe and Cordoba, about
three quarters of the secondary distribution is done using redistributive
criteria.
22.      In sumary, the  Federal  Revenue  Sharing system uses exclusively
redistributive criteria. For the provincial systems, the criteria vary
15/ See Table 4 in Petrel, ov. cit.



- 34 -
Annex 1
Page 9 of 26
considerably, but all use  some  redistributive  criteria.   Because of thc
fluctuations Ln Federal Revenue Shoring and In provincial tax receipts, the
amounts transfrrced annually to municipalitie by the provinces have varied
greatly over tim.
The Provincial and Muneciual Shres of Total Public Ixuenditures
23.      During the 1960c and 1970., the fiscal significanca of Argentina's
23 provinces and territories grew substantially. However, *lthough current
and capital expenditures of th. provinces increased from US$4.5 billion In
1970 to US$7.1 billion In 1980, the tendency in the 1980. has been a
decline en real terms to US$5.8 billion In 1985 (-23.01).16 The 1980a have
also boen charactorised by tmporal Instability of expenditures at the
provincial level with total expenditures ranging from US$6.8 billion in
1981  to  US$4.4  billion  in  1981.    The percentages  of  total public
expenditures going to provincial goverrments also reflect this instability,
ranging from 15.42  In  1982  to  19.01  ln  1984.   In  terns of GDP, the
percentage going to the provinces has varied considerably during the 1980s
ranging from 8.1S In 1980 to 10.01 in 1983, with the general tendency betag
upward, reflecting the trend in total public expenditures, in which this
percentage rose from 38.6Z in 1970 to 52.12 in 1985.17
24.      The municipalities   fared  much  worse   than  the  provincial
governments during the 1980s, showing absolute and rolative declines in
total current  and  capital expenditures.   Total municipal expenditures
dropped by nearly US$1 billion over the 1980/85 period, and the percentage
of total public expenditures, from 4.61 to 3.01. As a percentage of GDP,
this meant a decline from 2.21 in 1980 to 1.62 in 1985 (to almost the 1970
level, 1.51). Temporal listability was also high during the 1980185 period
with total expenditures ranging from US$900 million to US$1.9 billion.
25.     Municipal governments  have  relatively   low  access  to  credit
compared to the Central Administration or Provinces. The monthly average
lent to munielpalities In 1986 was US$48 million while the Central
Government and Provincial Administrations received over four times this
amount    Furthermore, while  the  average monthly  amount  lent to the
municipalities in 1986 was about equal to that of 1984, the average going
to the provinces increased by  almost  five times 18 The mayors inverviewed
during project preparation were unanimous in stating that they had very
little access to credit and what was available was for only very sbort
terms (normally less than two years and mostly for equipment). For this
reason, municipalities tend to have considerable unused borrowing capacity.
16/ See Table 17.
17/ The very low and negative annual rates of growth of the GDP explain
part of this incrasee.
181 For a more  complete  analysis,  seet   A.H. Petrei, *Fiscal Relations
Between  the   Central   and   Provincial   Government  of Argentinal,
Preliminary version of a paper prepared for the World Bank, xerox,
1987, Tables 8, 9 and 10.



- 35 -
Page 10 of 26
$TTACDINTN
LIO!ISILITY FOR PRIOJIC? PARTICIPATION BY PROVINCX
Prowinc of Buenos Aires
All Partidos excepts
- the 19 Partidos of Gran Buenos Alrces.
- the Partido of La Plata with the xception of the following
localities which are considered eligible: Arturo Sougn, Govina,
Jose Eern and, Abato, Lissndro O0ao, Melchor Roiuro, City
5*11 and Villa Ilisa.
- the localities of Bhla Blanc  and Mar de Plata. All of the
other localities of the Partidos of Bahla Blanca and General
Pusyrredon would be eligible.
Province of Cordobas
All Municipalities except tho Capital would be eligible.
Province of La Pmp-a
All Municipalities would be eligible.
Province of Neuquens
All Municipalities would be eligible, but th rural areas outside
of municipal boundaries would not be eligible.
Province of Santa Fe:
All Municipalities except Santa Fe and Rosario would be eligible.



- 36 -
Annex1
ARGENTINA                 Page 11 of 26
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table I
Total. Urban and Rural Population:
1970/80 and Projection to 1990
Years     Millions of inhabitants    X of Total Population (a)
Total    Urban   Rural    Total    Urban   Rural
1970      23.4    18.3       5.1   100.0    78.4    21.6
1980      27.9    23.2       4.7   100.0    83.0    17.0
1990      32.9    28.2       4.7    180.8    85.8    14.2
Annual
Rate of
Growth
1970/80     1.8      2.4    -9.6
1980/90     1.7      2.0    -0.1
SOURCE:  INDEC. CENSO NACIONAL DE POBLACION Y
VIVIENDA: 1980. SERIE 0, POBLACION.
INDEC. PROYECCION DE POBLACION 1970-2025.
Table 2
Total Private Households and the Population
Residino in Them:
1960/80
--------------------------------------------------------------
Millions          Average
Year                         Households  Resident    Household
Population Size
1969                    4.4        19.4      4.4
1980                    7.1        27.4      3.9
Annual
Rate of                              2.4          1.7    -0.7
Change
---------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE:  INDEC, CENSO NACINAL DE POBLACION Y VIVIENDA: 1980,
SERIE C. VIVIENDA, TOMO I.



- 37 -
AnneX I
Page 12 of 26
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3
Growth of Urban Population in the 20 to 29 Age Oroup
1970/98 and Projected to 1990 end 200
Age Groups
(000's of Persons)
YVer     Total      20-24    25-29
------------------------------------
1970      2,911    1,512    1.399
1980      3.742    1,904    1,838
1990      4.117    2.108    2.009
2000      5.269    2.830    2,439
Index:
1980 - 100
1970       77.8     79.4     76.1
1980      100.0    180.6    100.0
1990      110.0    110.7    109.3
2000      140.8    148.6    132.7
SOURCE:  INDEC, PROYECCION DE POBLACION, See Table 1.



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 13 of 26
RgNUTlNA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4
Total Population (666's) by Eliplbility to Participate in the Nunicipal
Development Project: 1179/90 and Projection to 1160
Eligibility, Province,            137     1NG  Projection
Agglomoration                                   I SW(d)
*-  -------------------------------------------
TOTAL                             23,364   27,949   32,880
Subtotal for the 5 provinces      13,297   16,191   19,415
Not Eligible                     8,168   16.135   12,d39
Province of Buonos Aires       6.320    8,003    9,943
Conurbation of B. A.(a)       S.490    6.977    8,694
La Plata--Partido(b)            353     4U7       466
Mar dal Plata--Locality         298      462       531
6ran Bahia Blanca--Locality     179      217      298
Province of Cordoba
Cordoba (Capital)               782      969    1.177
Province of Santa Fe             954    1,165    1,255
Rosario (Municipality)          697      797      894
Santa Fe (Municipality)         257      368      362
Province of Neuquen               52       58       63
Eligible                         5,189    6.906    6,97F
Province of Buenos Aires       2,455    2.862    3.272
Province of Cordoba            1.278    1.439    1.589
Province of Santa Fe           1,182    1.361    1.537
Provinceo of La Pampa            172      268      247
Province of Neuquen(c)           102      186      333
Rest of Country                   106,67   11,758   13.465
SOURCES: Compiled from tho documents presented by the provinces
and alsoo CENSO NACIONAL DE POBLACION Y UIVIENOA-19B6,
Sarne 0, Poblacion and Serie A.
NOTES: (a) The conurbation of Buenos Aires covers all of
the municipalities (or partidos) of Bran Busnos Aires that
are located in the Province of Buenos Aire*. Tho Federal Capital is
part of this metropolitan area, but not of the Province of Buonos Aires.
(b) Excluding eligible localities within tho Partidos of La
Plata, Bahia Blanca and 6eneral Pugyrredon. See Tablo 7. Pepuleon
of 1976 estimated using 1976/80 rate for locality.
(c)  Excluding all of the rural population of the Presisce of Ne"ves.
Cd) Pepulation for provinces and ether *racs estimated,
assuming the same geometric rate of increase as the 1176/80 priod.
These estimates wero then adjusted to the total population projected
by INDEC for 1990: PROYECCION DE POBLACION--1976-2625 (Buenos
Airas:  INDEC, 1966).



- 39 -
Annex I
ARGENTINA                 Page 14 of 26
MUNICIPAL DEVELOP"ENT PROJECT
Tabla 5
Absolute and Relative Growth of the Total Population by Province and by
Eligibility to Participete in the Municipal Developi nt Project:
1970/80 and Projection to 1996
____________________________________________________________--_____
Eligibility, Province        i      1970/1980    ,       1986/1996
Aggloneration            abs.    relative    abs.    relative
OOO's total annual 000's total annual
TOTAL                        4,58S  19.6X 1.8Z 4.931  17.6X 1.6X
Subtotal for the 5 provinces 2,894  21.82  2.82  3,224  19.92  1.8X
Not Eligible               2,627  2S.0X 2.3S 2,304  22.7Z  2.12
Province of Buenos Aires 1.683  26.62  2.42  1,940  24.22  2.22
Conurbation of 8. A.    1,487  27.12  2.42  1,717  24.62  2.22
La Plata--Partido          54  15.32  1.42      53  13.12  1.22
1iar del Plate--Locality   104  34.72  3.02    129 32.12  2.82
Gran Bahia Blenca--Loc.    38  21.22  1.92      41  18.82  1.72
Province of Cordoba
Cordoba (Capital)         187  23.92  2.22    208  21.S  2.62
Province of Santa Fe        151  16.82  1.S    1SO 13.62  1.32
Rosario (Municipality)    100  14.32  1.32      97  12.1X 1.2X
Sante Fe (Municipality)   51  19.82  1.82       54  17.52  1.62
Province of Neuquen          6  11.52  1.12       5   9.42  6.92
Eligible                     867  16.72  1.62    920  15.2  1.4X
Province of Buenos Aires   487  16.62  1.52    418  14.32  1.32
Province of Cordobe         161  12.62  1.22    156  16.42  1.82
Province of Santa Fe        179  15.12  1.42    176  12.92  1.22
Province of La Parmpa       36  20.92  1.92      39  18.62  1.72
Province of Neuquen         84  82.42  6.22    147  78.82  6.02
Rest of Country               1,691  16.82  1.62  4.787  14.52  1.42
SOURCES AND NOTES: See Table 4.



- 40 -
Annex 1
ARGENTINA                  Page 15 of 26
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6
Percentage Distributions of the Total Population by Province and b~
ElIgIbility to Participate in the Municipal Cevelopmqent Project:
1970/80 and Projection to 1990
--------------------------------------------------------------------_
X of total pop.    X of the 5 provinces
Eligibility. Province,      --------------------  --------------------
Agglomeration            1970   1980   1990   1970   1980   1990
------------------------------------------------------------------__-
TOTAL                        100.0% 100.0% 100.01
Subtotal for the 5 provinces  56.9%  57.9%  S9.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Not Eligible                34.7%  36.31  37.8%  61.06  62.6%  64.1%
Province of Buenos Aires 27.1%  28.6%  30.2%  47.5X  49.4%  51.2%
Conurbation of B. A.     23.5%  25.0X  26.4%  41.3%  43.1%  44.8%
La Plata--Partido         1.51   1.5X   1.4%   2.7%   2.5%   2.41
Mar del Plata--Locality   1.3%   1.4%   1.6%   2.2%   2.5%   2.7%
Gran Bahia Blanca--Loc.   0.8X   0.8%   0.91   1.3X   1.31   1.3%
Province of Cordoba
Cordoba (Capital)         3.3%   3.5%   3.61   5.91   6.0%   6.1%
Province of Santa Fe       4.1%  4.0%   3.8%   7.2%   6.8%   6.5%
Rosario (Municipality)    3.0%   2.9%   2.7%   5.2%   4.9%   4.6%
Santa Fe (Municipality)   1.1%   1.1%   1.1%   1.9%   1.9%   1.91
Province of Neuquen        0.2%   0.2%   0.2%   0.4%   0.4%   0.3%
Eligible                    22.2%  21.7%  21.2%  39.0%  37.4%  35.9%
Province of Buenos Aires  10.5%  10.21  10.0%  18.5%  17.7%  16.9X
Province of Cordoba        5.5%   5.1%   4.8%   9.61   9.9%   8.2X
Province of Santa Fe       5.1X   4.9%   4.71   8.9%   8.41   7.9%
Province of La Pampa       0.71   6.7%   0.8%   1.3%   1.3%   1.3%
Province of Neuquen        0.4%   0.7%   1.0%   0.8%   1.11   1.7%
Rest of Country               43.1%  42.1%  41.01
SOURCES AND NOTES:  See Table 4.



- 41 -
Annex I
AR6ENTINA           Page 16 of 26
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-Teble 7
Localities of the Partidos of La Plata, Bahia Blanca and
General Pueyrredon of the Province of Buenos Aires
by Eligibility and Total Population in 1980
Partidos and Localities            Population  1980
by Eligibility                      Absolute      X
------------------------------------------------------
Total for 3 Partidos                1,134.619    100.0
Not Eligible                     1,024,918     90.3
Eligible                           109,701      9.7
La Plata                              473,434    100.0
Not Eligible                      406,463      85.9
Eligible (a)                       66,971      14.1
Bahia Blanca                          233,947    100.0
Not Eligible                      216,747      92.6
Eligible (b)                        17,200      7.4
General Pueyrredon                    427,238    188.0
Not Eligible                      401,708      94.8
Eligible (c)                       25,530       6.0
SOURCE: Data supplied by the government of the Province of Buenos Aires
NOTES: (a) The localities of Arturo Segui, Gorina, Jose Hernandez,
Abasto, Lisando Olmos, Melchor Romero, City Bell and Villa Elisa.
Rural areas are not eligible in any of the three Partidos.
(b) All of the localities of the Partido except Bahia Blanca.
(c) All of the localities of the Partido except Mar del Plata.



- 42 -
Annex I
ARGENTINA                Page 17 of 26
NINIC1PAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Table 8
The Growth of Gross Regional Product (GRP) in the Five Provinces
and the Rest of the Countryt 1974/8I
Provinces and  Growth  Rank    Participation  GRP per capita  Growth
Torritories    of 6RP  for      in Sun of 6RP  as X of prov.  of 6RP
1970/80 Growth  for All Prov.  of BA           per cap.
(a)     1970    1980    1970    1980 1970/80
Neuquen          123.0X    2      0.7X    1.2S  117.7X  176.6X   41.11
Cordoba           43.0X   15      6.71    7.4X   81.7X  111.81   28.71
La Pampa          35.61   17      0.81    0.81  116.01  137.61   11.SX
Santa Fe          35.01   17      8.91    9.31  108.31  135.31   17.41
Buenos Aires      18.01   23    33.61   30.91  160.01  160.01   -6.01
Rest of Country                  49.31   50.4S
Federal Cap.    16.01          29.01   26.31  255.01  321.31   18.41
Other Provinces                20.31   24.11
All of Country    28.51                          111.81  127.71    7.41
SOURCE: Conoejo Federal de Inversiones, CARACTERIZACION SOCIO-ECONOMICA
DE LA PROVINCIA DE LA PAMPA, Buenos Aires. 1984.
NOTES:   (a)  Sives the rank of the province relative to the other 24
provinces or territories and the Federal Capital.



43
nnex 1
ARGENTINA                    Page 16 of 26
MUNICIPAL DEUELOPNENT PROJECT
Table 9
The Growth of E1oio,wnt in Menufacturina: 1974/96
Provinceo and                        Employment       Varletion 1974/85
Other Spatial Units              ----------------    ---------
9/1974    4/1985  Absolute    %
_____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________
ARGENTINA                        1,525.221 1,373,173 (152,648) -10.6
Subtotal:
The Five Provinces (a)             462,616   423,385  (39.231)   -8.5
Buenos Aires Without Metro BA    186,690   176,359  (16.331)   -5.5
Cordoba                          123.249   162,346  (26,909)  -17.0
La Pampa                           4,388     6,436    2,042    46.5
Neuquen                            2,693     5.656    2,357    87.5
Santa Fe                         145,596   133,266  (12,390)   -8.5
Subtotal:
Outside of the Five Prov. (b)    1.,62.605   949,788 (112,817)  -10.6
Buenos Aires Motro Region        832.711   666,074 (166,637)  -26.6
Federal Capital                338,683   230,376 (168,367)  -32.6
19 Municipalities in BA Prov.  494,628   435.698  (58,336)  -11.8
Rest of country                  229,894   283,714   53,820    23.4
SOURCE:  INDEC, INDUSTRA IIANUFACTUERA:  RESULTADOS ANTICIPADOS, CENSO
NACIONAL ECONOMICO DE 1985.
NOTES: (a) Excluding the 19 municipalities within the Metropolitan
Rogion of Buenos Aires.
(b) Including these 19 municipalities.



- 44 -
Annex 1
Page 19 of 26
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 10
Percentage Distribution of Employment in Manufacturinao: 1974/85
Provinces and                     X Total Eiploynant  Index:
Other Spatial Units               ------------------  X in 1984/
9/1974   4/1985    S in 1974
ARGENTINA                           166.62    16X.6%       1.600
Subtotal:
The Five Provinces (a)               30.3X     36.8X       1.017
Buenos Aires Without Metro BA      12.2X      12.86      1.649
Cordoba                             8.12      7.51       0.922
La Pampa                            0.3X      6.5S       1.628
Neuquen                             0.2X      0.41       2.983
Santa Fe                            9.5X      9.7X       1.016
Subtotal:
Outside of the Five Provinces (b)   69.7X      69.21       0.993
Buenos Aires "etropolitan Regio   54.61      48.51       0.888
Federal Capital                  22.21     16.81 8.756
19 Municipalities in BA Prov.   32.41      31.71      0.980
Rest of country                    15.11     20.72       1.371
SOURCE: INDEC, INDUSTRA MANUFACTUERA:  RESULTADOS ANTICIPADOS, CENSO
NACIONAL ECONOMICO DE 1985.
NOTES: (a) Excluding the 19 municipalities within the Metropolitan
Region of Buenos Aires.
(b) Including these 19 municipalities.



- 45 -
Annex 1
ARGENTINA                     Page 20 of 26
"UNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 11
The Structure of Federal Trnsfers to Local overrnments by Type:
1S372/1S7/1171,91F7182/1984
Type                    1972    1976    1980    1902    1984
TOTAL                  100.0X  100.0X  100.62   99.92  100.02
Automatic               60.92   32.0X   74.02   655.9    40.9X
Not *arnarked         53.9X   28.72   69.7X   51.1X  28.5X
Revenue Sharing      SO.6X   26.1t   66.22   41.7X   20.1X
Royalties             3.3X    2.6X    4.2X    9.52    8.42
Earmarked              7.02    3.32    4.32   14.42   12.42
Discretionary           39.12  68.02   26.02   34.42   99.12
Not earrarkeu         33.72   63.42    7.42   18.52   45.62
Srants               29.22   57.72    5.02   15.02   38.72
Other                 4.52    5.82    2.42    3.S2    6.7X
Earmarked              5.42    4.62   18.62   15.92   13.72
SOURCE:  Alberto Porto, ANALISIS DEL IMPACTO DE LOS APORTES DEL
TESORO NACIONAL SOBRE LAS FINANZAS PROVINCIALES (Buenos Aires:
Consejo Federal de Inversiones, 1986). Cuadro 4, p. 115.



-46-
Annex I
#age 21 of 26
ARSENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 12
Federal Revenue Shoring (Comarticimecion) and Discretionary
Grants (Amortes del Teoro Nacional) to Province:  1167U/4
millions of US$ (12/1986)
-------------------------------------------
Years                   Revenue   Discre-        X
Total      Sharing   tionary     revenue
6rants      sharing
1967     1,622.9     1,416.7       206.1   87.3X
1968    1,624.8      1,468.0       156.8  90.32
1969     1,778.5     1.575.8       261.1   88.6X
1970     1,799.3     1,486.8       312.5  82.62
1971     1,988.5     1,354.7       633.8  68.1X
1972     1.938.8     1.119.3       819.9  57.7X
1973    3,045.7      1,592.8     1,452.9  52.32
1974    4,053.7     2,263.2      1,790.5  55.8X
1975    4,982.6      1.392.1     3,590.5   27.92
1976    3,397.5      1,828.2     1,569.3   53.82
1977    3,359.4      2,992.9       366.4   89.1X
1978    3,069.6     2,719.8        349.8   88.62
1979    2,890.5     2,668.1        222.3   92.3Z
1980    3,607.3     3,240.7        266.6   92.42
1981    3,092.4     2,010.1      1,082.3   65.02
1982     1,864.4     1,390.9       473.5   74.62
1983    3,366.3      1,019.9     2,346.4   30.3X
1984    2,715.2        951.7     1,763.5   35.12
-----------------------------------------------------
SOURCE OF ORI6INAL DATA: Alberto Porto, see Table 11.
NOTES: The original data in Pesos Ly 18.188 were transforred into
Aastrales (1 Austral - 10 million Pesos lay) of December 1986 using the
wholesale price index of INDEC, and then into dollars at
the official rate of exchange for December, 1986.



47
Annex I
Page 22 of 26
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 13
Relative Distributions of Population, the Weights for Secondary
Distribution of Rovenue Sh ring, Revenue Sharing Plus Discretionar
6rant* (1984) *nd DiOcretionary Grants (1985)
Revenue  Revenue  Grants Indices of Concentr.tion
Provinces   Popule- Sharing Sharing +         (Z  sharo / S Share Pop.)
tion Weights   6rants  (6)   -------------------- --
(RS)                   Weights   RS + 6  6rants
1980    1986     1984    1985    1986    1984    1986
TOTAL         100.0X  10.010  100.01  10.0X1 1.00        0 1.600   i.000
Subtotal:
5 Provinces    64.7X   48.1X    39.6X   40.41  0.744   0.612   0.625
Buenos Aires   43.56   28.3S    16.61   17.51  0.650   0.382   0.403
Cordoba         9.61    8.21      9.31    9.61  0.847   0.965   0.993
Santa Fe        9.81    8.21      9.7X   10.0X  0.839   0.993   1.024
La Pampa        0.8X    1.71      2.11    2.01  2.000   2.554   2.458
Neuquen         1.01    1.81      1.91    1.31  1.878   1.908   1.316
Rs5t of
Country        35.31   51.9S    60.41   59.61  1.469   1.711   1.686
SOURCE OF ORIGINAL DATA:  Same as Table 11, Cuadros 12 end 17.



48                    Annex 1
Page 23 of 26
AR6ENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEvELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 14
Primary Distribution by Source of Resources Sharod:
The Fivw Provinces
-----------------------------------------------------------
The Five Provinces
Source of     ---------------------------------------------
Resourcos       Buenos  Cordoba   Santa      La  Neuquen
Shared           Aires               Fe   Pompa
Federal Revonue    9.25X  10.00X  13.44U  10MM0X   5.00X
Sharing
Sales Tax         9.25X   10.OO2  13.442  10.50X  25.00X
Property Tax
Urban           9.252   16.000  50.002  10.50X  60.00S
Rural           9.252  10.002X  SO.00   10.50X  5.O0X
Automobile        9.25X  ---      8.00X   10.50X   -
Tax
Stamp Tax         9.25X  ---               10.50X
Other &
Notes            (1)      ---     ---      (2)
----------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE: Prevailing legislation for each province in April 1987.
NOTES: None of the five provinces shared royalties from natural
resource exploitation.
(1) The Province of Buenos Aires also shares a tax on
services and the sports lottery by different criteria. The
latter is distributed in accord with the number of hospitals.
(2)  All other provincial taxes are also shared at
10.52.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Page 24 of 26
AR6ENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 15
Transfers by the Five Provinces to Local 6ovornments:
1970/1979/1983/1984
Provinces              1970    1979    1983    1984
Millions of USS(a)
Buenos Aires            92.9   134.6    96.5   123.8
Cordoba                 10.6    24.3    30.3    25.2
Santa Fe               4S.2    71.6    49.8    76.0
La Pampa                 4.4     9.5     6.7     7.7
Neuquen                  4.1     6.2    11.0      8.4
Index:
Bose:  1984 - 100
Buenos Aires           75.0   108.7    78.0   100.0
Cordoba                42.0    96.3   120.3   100.0
Santa Fe               59.5    94.2    65.5   100.0
La Pampa               57.2   122.2    86.2   1,0.0
Neuquen                48.7    73.1   130.5   100.0
SOURCE OF ORI6INAL DATA: Ruben Domingo Poncio. COPARTICIPACION
MUNICIPAL (Buenos Aires: Conselho Federal de Inversiones.
1986), Cuadro 3, p. 109.
NOTES: (a) Converted to US$ by transforming thef-Argentine Pesos
into Australe5 of Decenber 1986, using the non-agricultural
wholesale price index of INDEC. These Australes were then
transformed into dollars using the official exchange rate for this
date.



-50-                 Annex 1
ARGENTINA                Page 25 of 26
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPUENT PROJECT
Table 16
Tho Secondary Distribution of Rovenue Sharing to Municipalities:
The Five Provinces
Objectivo                    The Five Provinces
*nd Criteria        ---------
Buonos Cordoba   Santa    La    Nouquen
Aires              Fe    Pampe
TOTAL                 100.00X  190.000  100.00X 100.00X 100.00X
____________________
Redistribution        100.00X   76.75X  70.00X  25.00X  40.00O
Population (direct)   65.002   40.30X  40.O0X  20.00X  2.082
Equal Shares          ---       18.20X  3.000X   5.00X  2.0800
Land Surface           10.00X   ---     ---      ---     ---
Population 6rowth     ---        3.25X  ---     ---
Fiscal cost or cap.   25.00X   15.00X  ---
Fiscal Effort          O.0e%   23.25X  3.000X  7E.002  60.00O
1.provement           ---        3.25X  ---      15.00X  -
Total Resources        --       20.660  30.002  68.002  60 00X
Notes                  (1)      (2)     (3)      (4)
SOURCES: Prevailing legislation in April 1987.
NOTES: (1) The Province of Buenos Aires distributes 932 of the
revenue shared by these criteria. The other 72 plus receipts
of the sports lottery are distributed in proportion to runicipal
hospital costs. The 25X distributed in accord with fiscal cost or
capacity is distributed by the inverse of fiscal capacity.
(2) These percentages refer to the amount distributed
to the municipalities. Of the total shared. 9S2 goes to the
municipalities, 32 to the Comisiones Vecinales and 2X to the
Reserve Fund. 
(3) The criteria in the table refer only to the
revenue sharing for municipalities. For the share going to the
Comisiones de Fomento, the weights are: population. 802 and equal
shares, 202. For the sales tax, the percentages shown on thf table
are used for both municipalities and Comisiones. For the property
tax. the receipts are shared in accord with the total tax billing.
The license tax for cars is divided In accord with the total number
of licensed cars (802) and total tax receipts.
(4) The percentages refer only to 61.92 of the total amount
shared that goes to the municipalities and Comisiones do Fomento, but
not to the 39.1X that goes to the Community Development Fund.



- 51 -
Annex 1
Page 26 of 26
ARGENTINA
IUNICIPAL OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 17
Total Current and Caeital Public ExPenditures by Gover_ment Laval
or type of Public Entity: 1979/198-US
Governrent levels            1970  1980  1881  1982  1993  1984  1985
or type of public entity
--------------------------------------------------------------__----
In Billions of US$ 7/87
Total                        26.7  40.6  46.7  28.4  32.3  34.5  34.0
National Administration    4.5   7.2   7.1   5.2   6.2   6.0   5.6
Provinces and Capital       3.2   6.7   6.6   4.4   5.8   6.5   5.8
Municipalities              8.8   1.9   1.8   0.9   1.1   1.6   1.0
Public Enterprises          6.4  13.3  12.7  10.6  11.6  12.6  13.3
Social Security             5.8  11.6  12.3   7.2   7.6   8.3   8.2
Index: 1980 - 160.0
Total                        51.0 160.0 100.2  69.9  79.6  84.8  83.7
National Administration   62.6 106.0  98.8  72.3  86.1  82.7  78.4
Provinces and Capital      47.5 100.0 160.9  65.4  86.6  97.7  87.0
Plunicipalities            44.6 100.6  97.1  56.2  57.9  88.5  64.5
Public Enterprises         48.1 100.0  95.5  79.8  87.2  94.9 100.0
Social Security            49.9 100.0 166.6  62.6  66.1  71.5  71.6
X of total expenditures
Total                       100.0 166.6 100.0 100.0 166.0 100.0 100.0
National Administration   21.8  17.7  17.S  18.4  19.2  17.3  16.6
Provinces and Capital      15.4  16.5  16.6  15.4  18.0  19.0  17.1
Municipalities              3.9   4.6   4.4   3.3   3.3   3.1   3.0
Public Enterprises         31.1  32.8  31.2  37.4  35.9  36.6  39.1
Social Security            27.9  28.5  30.3  25.5  23.7  24.0  24.1
I of 6ross Domestic Product
Total                        38.6  49.1  53.3  49.1  55.8  51.9  52.1
National Administration    8.4   8.7   9.3   9.0  10.7   9.0   8.7
Provinces and Capital       5.9   8.1   8.9   7.6  10.8   I19  8.9
Municipalities              1.5   2.2   2.4   1.6   1.9   1.6   1.6
Public Enterprises         12.6  16.1  16.6  18.4  20.6  19.0  26.4
Social Security            10.6  14.6  16.2  12.6  13.2  12.4  12.6
SOURCE: FIEL. EL 6ASTO PUBLICO EN LA ARGENTINA: 1960-1985 (Buenos Aires
1987). Cuadros 3.15 - 3.17. pp. 132-134.
NOTE: Values transforned to Australes of June 1987 using INDEC's
wholesale price index for non-agricultural products and then dAviding by
the average official exthange rate for the nsonth (1.802).



- 52 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
HUNICIPAL DgVELOPNINT PROJICT
Nuniclial Investment Plan Profiles
A. PHYSICAL INVESTHMTS
1.       Physical invetment components would  be eligible for financing in
those municipalities that mot the creditworthy, cost recovery end other
eligibility criteria (see  paras. 2.04-2.13).    Because the project would
operate as a line of credit for eligible municipalitils, the profile of
investments to be financed under the project is indicative, and currently
based on a survey of representative municipalities, in each province.
Although this profile may be expected to vary from year to year, as
mnunicipal investment priorities may chnge, an annual requirement that
would remain a constant is that each municipality must have at least 65Z of
total proposed physical invostments allocated to components for which 100O
of total lnvestment costs will be fully recovered from payments to the
municipality by direct  investment  beneficiaries.   Therefore, investments
will necessarily be concentrated in infrastructure with 'private goods
characteristics of public finance, In which the exclusion principlo applies
-- e.g., water and sewerage, street paving and lighting, market stalls,
etc.
2.       The general profile of proposed  physical investments for the five
provinces as & whole  is  suimurised  below.   Additional details for this
aggregate profile are provided in Tables 2-4 of Annex 7, and details at the
provincial level are available in the Project File.
Infrastructuret        approxImately 691 of total project  costs with 321
for street paving, llZ for sewerage, 81 for water
supply, 4Z for street curbing, 41 for extention of
gas networks to residential neighborhoods, 3Z for
street lighting and about 71 for other public works.
Community Facilities: about 91 of total project costs, approximately
evonly divided betwnen bus terminals, child and
health care  centers,  comurcial,  social and other
community facilities.
Proiect Deslmn
and Supervision:       plans and drawings  for infrastructure and community
facilities, as well as construction supervision,
would  be   undertaken   by municipalitios,  either
through their own professional staffs, or through
contracting of professional services; these are
estimated to cost 71 of the costs of civil works for
Infrastructure and community facilities, or about 51
of total project costs; although recognised as
legitimate project expenditures, the Bank would not
disburse directly against these expenditures, nor



- 53 -
Annex 2
Poge 2 of 4
ould it finance technical assistance or training in
municipal project design and supervision.
Eaul"ment & Vehicles:  approximately 122 of  total project  costs would be
primarily for purchaso of road maintenance and
garbage collection  quipment and vehicles;   pressly
excluded from bank financing would be any equipment
or vehicles excluded from Iuportation to Argentina.
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
3.       One of the  criteria  for m*icipal  creditworthiness  Is that a
municipality's current revenues be greater than its current expenditurrs,
as defined In par&.  2.07(a).    In  the  application of this criterion, It
should be noted that the accounting procedures In all of the proposed
provinces provide for the cash method for revenues and the accrued method
for xpenditures.   Thus, it  Is  quite  possible  for a financially sound
municipality to have an  executed  budget,  as  reported  at the end of the
year, with a current revenue to current expenditure ratio at or slightly
bolow unity. In order to recognize this 'bookkeeping discrepancy' that
does not violate the principle of the creditworthy criterion, it has been
agreed with all provinces that municipalities with a current account ratio
ranging from 0.95 to 1.00 would be considered creditworthy (subject to the
provisions of par&. 2.07(b)). As a precaution, however, it has also been
agreed that for municipalities that fall in this range, an adequate
technical assistance and/or training program would be a corequisite for
access to  credit  for  financing physical  investments.   Thus, technical
assistance and training under the project for municipalities may fall,
initiallys, in tho following categories: (a) assistance to municipalities in
order to become eligible for project financing of physical investments,
becauso the municipality has a ratio of current revenues to current
expenditures less  than  0 95;  (b)  a  corequisite  for financing physical
investments because the municipality has a ratio of current revenues to
current expenditures between 0.95 and 1.00; and (c) complementary and
voluntary, for municipalities  with  current  revenues greater than current
expenditures.
4.       Because  (a)  in  the   first   two  categories  above, technical
assistance and training would  be  directed  to the financially less strong
municipalities that  generally  have  less  capacity  to  design  their own
assistance programs and (b) there are significant economies of scale in
technical assistance and training (particularly in the financial management
area), the technical assistance and training to be financed under the
project would be channeled almost exclusively through and managed by the
Provincial Project  Execution  Units.    In  those  cases  in which fully
creditworthy (current account ratio greater than unity) municipalities wish
to contract directly for technical assistance or training (for municipal-
specific tasks, such as surveys and plans, or equipment not covered In the
PEUs program, for example) these would be financed from the 'other'
category of Infrastructure (see Table 2, Annex 7).
5.       Thust the first prlorlty  of the  PEUs  technical assistance and
training programs will be to strengthen municipal managment capacity, and



r
- 54 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
tbus eligibility for financing of physical investments. As the project'c
~i pl tation procoods, however, soom participating municipalities SAy
pr sent audit irregularities. In these cases, the PE would provide on -
first priority basis a tecbhical assistance program, acceptable to the
Bank, focused on eliminating the observed irregularities (see par-. 2.39).
6.       In addition to  providing  support to sunicipalities, the project
would finance technical assistanco and training for the Provincial PIUs
and/or other provincial entities responsible for project implementation and
supervision, such as the Ministry of Public Works. This assistance would
include any legitimate strengthening of the Province's capacity to support
the project, through training, consulting services and/or equipment, such
as microcomputers and construction supervision vehicles.
7.        Up to 52 of the  proceeds of the  Bank  loan could be used for
technical assistance and training in each provinco (including assistance to
the province and to the municipalities through the PEU). In exceptional
cases, in which one or more provinces present justifications acceptable to
the Bank, up to 102 of the proceeds of the Bank loan in a given province
could be used for  this  assistance.    As project implementation proceods,
bowever, irregularities in the audit of a province's Project Account and/or
the management of the PEU may be  observed.   In these cases (as well as in
the cases of municipal audit irregularities, as noted in pare. 5), an
appropriate technical assistance and/or training program would be an
obligitary part of the subsequent year's investment program.
8.       Although recognizing that the proposed  technical assistance and
training program is unprecedented  In  Its  scope (covering five provinces)
and focus (improving municipal financial management and service dolivery
capacity), tho Annex Table presents details of the proposed program as it
is expected to evolve. Because a program of this type has never been done
In Argentina,  and because  it  will   be  'demand  driven' as project
implementation proceeds, these details should be considered indicative.
They were prepared on the basis of each porposed province's estimate of
municipal and PEU needs over the first three years of the project, and
these details are available in the Project  File.    Of the total of US 12
million (52 of total project costs) estimated to be allocated to technical
asistance and training, 622 is  expected to be channeled through the PMs
for assistance to municipalities, and 382 is estimated to be for the PEUs
,and other provincial agencies responsible for project implementation.



- 55 -
Annex 
Page 4 of 4
NICIZA   ZVLfiM    PRO
Technical Asslstac  *d Tr Iniln  Prosry
3stiuated Cost
component                                                  m-(UW  '000 Inial nt) X
1. Management System  Technical Assistance
a. Financial Management (Municipalities)              4,200      35
b. Sxternal Audits (Provinces)                          600        5
c. Equipment (Computers, peripherals,
vehicles, other)
- P2Us                                           1,000       8
- Municipalities                                   800       7
d. Sub-Total                                          6,600      55
2. Project Management Support (PEUs)
a. Consultants                                        1,200       10
b. Travel                                               600        5
C. Other                                                600       5
d. Sub-Total                                          2,400      20
3. Tra%ning
a. Municipalities                                     2,400      20
b. PIUs                                                 600       5
c. Sub-Total                                           3,00      25
4. TOTAL                                                 12,000      100
Notest Technical Assistance and Training Program disaggregated at the
Provincial Level are avallable in the Project File.
All components would be managed by the PUs.  When an expenditure is
indlcated to be for municipalities, this would be made by the P U on
behalf of municipalities.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
luDlem_ntation Arranee_ nts
1.       Direct responsibility for project Implementation, supervision and
monitoring would rest with each province's Project Execution Unit (P3U).
Actual  execution  of   physical   investments  would   be  undertaken  by
municipalities, according to rules and procedures established in each
Province's Project Operations Manual (see Annex 6) and carried out by the
P31U.  The PMW also would  be responsible for foroulating annual program  of
technical assistance and training, including programs for itself and other
provincial project executing agencies, as well as programs executed by the
PEU for assistance to municipalities.
2.       The PEUs would be responsible  for  carrying out all project legal
agreements, including those with the Bank, the Central Government and
municipalities, and guidelines for execution of all of these agreements
would be included in each Province's Project Operations Manual. As part of
its overall responsibility, each year the PEU would consolidate municipal
physical investment proposals, as well as municipal (and Provincial)
technical assistance and training needs and proposals, into a Provincial
Annual Investment Program that would be reviewed and approved by the Bank
as a condition of disbursement for new subprojects in that province for the
subsequent year.
3.       Because  this  would  be  the  first  operation  of  its  kind  in
Argentina, and because each Province has a different political and
administrative organisation, there is no *ideal" institutional model for
project Implementation. There are, however, common Anstitutional needs for
which specific arrangements must be assured in each province. The most
Important of these needs are as follows.
(a) Project lmplementation requires inputs from many sectors. Sectoral
management varieos In each province, but typical examples of
project Implementation inputs would be: verification of proper use
of provincial design standards for municipal physical works'
proposals, review ex-ant- of all procurement procedures, and
certification  of  proper  execution   of   the works,  with  the
collaboration of the Ministry of Public Works; verification of
municipal creditworthiness in collaboration with the Ministry of
Finance;  design  of  municipal   training  program  in  Improved
financial management with collaboration of Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Government (constitutionally responsible for assisting
municipalities); design of municipal technical assistance program
in Improved maintenance procedures for municipal vehicles and
equipment, with collaboration of Ministries of Public Works and
Government; obtain provincial water company's investment program
to  evaluate  how municipal  proposal  for  residential network
expansion fits in with this plan; contract with provincial data
processing company to electronically process progress reports for
Bank supervision; etc.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
(b)  From the sbove, it is clear that  th  PEU itself must havo a staff
adequate to the tak of coordinating intersectoral subprojects,
and just as importantly, it must have easy access to specialized
agencis (e.g., Ministry of Public Works). for this access, it io
necessary that the PDU act, directly or Indirectly, with the
authority of the Governor (generally the only provincial official
with broad intersectoral authority).   In addition, for the PRU to
have effective access to the sectoral agencies, and of course to
municipalities, it must have mobility, both in a physical sense
(e.g. to visit municipalities) but also with resp-et to financial
resources, so that it may react quickly to Implementation needs
without undue dependence on other institutions.
4.       In suam ry, therefore,  there  are  two bsic conditions necessary
for th  PEU to adequately  assum  its implmentation responsibilities under
the project: (a) adequate staffing, with sufficient technical eapertise to
directly carry out implementation functions and/or to competently interact
with specialized agenciesg and (b) sufficient authority, ultimately flowing
from the Governor, to be able to mobilize and coordinate resources across
provincial agencies, as well as among municipalities.
5.       The internal organization  and management  structure  of the PEUs
proposed by all of the provinces is similar. Each would have an overall
coordinator, supported by a  technical  division,  a division for financial
and economic analysis, one or two lawyers, and an administrative staff.
Total staff for all the proposed PEUs vary between 22 to 27, with Santa Fe
considering the hiring of consultants for a significant part of this total.
In addition, the most relevant provincial agencies that will collaborate
with the PEU (e.g. water companies, Departments of Energy, of Roads,
Architecture and Buildings, etc.) in each of the Provinces were evaluated
and found to have adequate professional staffs and standards   This is also
the case with  the  civil construction  industry,  which presents adequate
capacity and competence to carry out the proposed works in each province.
6.       In conclusion, all of  the provinces  have proposed PEUs that are
adequately designed from a staffing standpoint, with sufficient support for
satisfactory project implementation available in Provincial agencies and in
the private sector.   The keys  to  successful project implementation are,
therefore, effective staffins and adequate intersectoral authority of the
PEUs.
7.       Regarding PEU staffing, this  is  relatively  easy to evaluate, at
least formally, and it is proposed that PMU staffing, satisfactory to the
Bank, be a condition of disbursement on each province (para. 2.27).
Evaluation of the adequacy of each PEU's intersectoral authority is, of
course, much more complex    Each  province has a different constitution, a
different political conditionality, and the real structure of authority may
be distinct from the formal  one.    Thus,  there is no general "model" for
adequate PEU institutional status, and each province has been appraised on
a case by case basis. Provincial proposals for the PEU's locus within each
province's structure of authority may be broadly classified as follows:
clear and direct access to the Governox (Neuquen and La Pampa); clear but
indirect access to the Governor (Santa Fe); indirect and fractionated
access to the Governor (Buenos Aires and Cordoba).



5~~~~~~~~~~~
Page 3 of 4
PIUs with Clear ged Direct Access to the Governor
S.       In La Plamp, the  PMU  coordinator would be the Undersecretary of
Public Works. because La Pampa Is a relatively small (in population, with
247 thousand inhabitants projected for 1990) province, with a frontier,
informal enviroen*t, lines of authority are also rather informal and the
MW coordinator would have direct access to the Governor (at least In the
administration elected In September  1987).   The Underecretary of Public
Works has the project's key Implementation support agncAies subordinated to
Its the Provincial Water end Energy Administrations and Departments of
Roads and of Architecture and Buildings.  Thus, if It is properly staffed,
the La Plam PFU should have adequate institutional support and authority
to Implement satisfactorily the project.
9.       In Neuquen, the MW would have  a governing board, presided by the
Minister of Economy and Public Works, and Including the Undersecretary of
Public Works, the Director of the Provincial Water Authority, Provincial
Director of Architecture, and the Provincial Director of Roads. The P1W
coordinator would have the rank of Provincial Director and would be
appointed by the Prosident of the Board, who would have direct access to
the  Governor  and  direct   authority   over the key  sectoral  agencies
rosponsible for supporting project Implementation. As with La Pampa, given
adequate staffing, Nouquen's PEU has great implementation authority.
PEU with Clear but Indirect Access to Governor
10.      In Santa Fe, the  PEU would  be  subordinated  to the Ministry of
Economy and Finance and would report to the Undersecretary of Finance. The
PEU Coordinator would have the rank of Provincial Director General. For
access to the Governor, the PU would have two hierarchical tiers, and not
all of the agencies necessary to successfully implement the project are
within the PEU's direct hierarchy (e.g., Ministry of Public Works). Thus,
it will be Important for the PEU to establish formal agreements with other
ministries, especiaily regarding technical support for review, monitoring
and supervision of works. Recognizing this need, the Province has proposed
en lnnovative, decentralized approach, with six regional offices for the
ME, with technical support from other decentralized offices of the
Province. These offices would be in Reconquista, Sunchales, Santa Fe,
Sastre, Rossrio and Venado Tuerto, and initially would be staffed primarily
by   consultants.       As    project   implementation  progresses,   this
decentralization of project implementation may be formalized as part of a
general decentralization of the Province's government.
PEUs with Indirect and Fractionated Access to the Governor
11.     The proposals for PEU structure  in  the Provinces of Buenos Aires
and Cordoba &re quite similar. In each, the PEU would be supervised by a
lPolitical Committee' composed of Undersecretaries of three different
Ministries: Economy; Planing; and Public Works.  The Director of the PEU
would report to the Committee, and the Committee would report to the
Governor. Although the key sectoral areas for project implementation are
present in the Political Committee, the P1U must rely on formal agreements
with the represented ministries.    Thus,  although  in both Provinces the



-59,
Anvx 3
Page 4 of 4
Gkovrnors have expressed personally their full support to the project, the
actual lines of authority  for  their  PlUs  are  not  as clear as would be
desirable.
12.      Although the biplementation arreng_ants proposed by the Provlncs
of luwnos Aire *nd Cordoba present questions regarding the effectivenesa
of their day-to-day operationa, they are acceptable for en initial stage of
iplemntation. As xperince Is gained  In these end other Provinces, the
mplementatlon arrangements say be adjusted to take advantage of useful
lessons learned. Furthermore, the project has two primry safeguards for
unsatisfactory Umplementation performance in any Province: (a) If the smi-
annual perforanee audit Identifies iplementation problems, then technical
asistance for the MgU, directed at structural and/or staff strengthening,
would be an obligatory part of the subsequent year's Investment ptogrem to
be agreed with the Bank (par&. 2.27); and (b) at the end of the third year
of project implment.tion, if not all of the total loan has been coimittedt,
then a new allocation of the remaining loan would be determined according
to provincial performance during the first throe years of Implementation
(par&. 2.20).



- 60 -
nArtx 4
Pasg 1 of 4
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEViLOPNT PROJECT
Proiect Impact on Provincial end Municlal Finance.
1.       In   dimensioning   the   project,   the   financLal   impact   on
municipalities and provinces to of central concern. This dimensioning has
been recamended based on municipal eligibility criteria, and on the actual
investments made in the eligible municipalities over the past five years,
with the assumption that the upper llimt of a province's capecity to absord
credit would be the doubling of the annual average for investments by
eligible municipalities each year over a throe year project implementation
period (see par&. 2.18, end details for each province are available in the
project file), subject to the municipal debt limitation criteria (par&.
2.07).
2.       Final recommendations regarding total project  costs are based on
(a) municipal  investment   capability,   creditworthinses  and new  debt
absorptive capacity (para. 2 07), (b) estimates of the demand for municipal
credit, and (c) provincial technical and management capacity, as well as
financial capability to provice counterpart funds, when relevant (details
are presented in each Province's Appraisal Report, available in the Project
File). A comparison of the recommended loan sizes among provinces is
presented belows
Loan Amount      Eligible Pop.      Loan Amt. Per
Provinco         USS millions      1990 ('000)       Capita (USS)
Buenos Aires         55.0             4,134                13.3
Cordoba              21.0             1,560                13.5
La Pampa              3.5               247                 14.2
Neuquen               9.5               333                28.5
Santa Fe             31.0             1,694                18.3
Total               120.0             7,968                15.1
3.       Neuquen is the only  notable  exception  from  the average for the
five provinces, with a per capita loan amount almost 90% greater than the
average. This exception may be explained, however, by examination of
Neuquen's extraordinary demographic and economic growth; over the 1970/80
period, its Gross Regional Product per capita experienced the fastest
growth of the five provinces and in 1980 was almost two times that of the
Province of Buenos Aires (see Anne" 1, especially Table 8).
4.       Because of the project's  eligibility requirements, it is expected
that all participating municipalities will be financially strengthened as a
result of the project (par&. 2.40).    In order to sustain this impact for
municipalities,   project   replicability  would   be   promoted   through
capitalization of Municipal Development Funds in each Province. The level
of  fP1L&l1Z&t1OA  of  Lh-SeSe  FLU4e b.-  b4*a  the  object of considerable
analysis and  debate.    This  is natural  because  each  province has an
independent  Constitution   end   different   provincial/municipal  service



_ 61 -
Annox4
Pago 2 of 4
delivery responsibilities and rovenue sharing arrangements. However, for
management of the project as * whole, certain minimum onl*nding conditions
from provinces to =unicipalities would be agreed in order to reach at least
minimum capitalisation targots.
S.       Tablos I(a) and l(b) prosont  a   uxiary of nuerous scenarios for
capitalisation of the Punds (additional data available in the Project
File). Agreement has been reached with all provinces that * *cxiaum
repayment period of 10 years, including one of grace, and a minitxm of 1.5
percentage point spread over the lnterest rate for provincial loan
repayment to the Central Government would provide an adequate, tintim= Fund
capitalization, without an inappropriate burden on final beneficiaries (see
Annex  5,  par&.  12).      Because   there  has  been  no  experience with
capitalization of such  a  Fund  in  Argentina,  the  minimum conditions of
province to municipality onlending would be stipulated in each Province's
Project Operations Manual so that if these minimum conditions need to be
modifld, then the Bank may agree to appropriate changes in the Manuals
without the need for formal modifications of the legal documents.
6.       Concern with  the  project's  impact  on  provincial  finances is
relevant primarily in the Province of Cordoba, where provineial authorities
propose to provide all project counterpart funds (par&. 2.21). A comparison
with the amount of provincial counterpart   funding necessary  (para. 2.18)
with the volume of traditional fiscal transfers expected to be available to
municipalities (Table 2) indicates that lack of provincial counterpart
availability  does  not  present  a   significant  risk  to  the  project's
implementation in  Cordoba.    In  addition,  the  new  Constitution of the
Province of Cordoba provides for a new revenue sharing category ("Municipal
Development Fund') that the Province proposes to allocate entirely as
counterpart for the project (see para. 1.11).



Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
MUNICIPAL DEVELOMWT P*OJICT
Camitalization of Municipal Develoiwnt Fund
Alternative cenarios
Asiuiption s  Onlending from Central Government to Provinces at 8.51 p.a.
interest rate, repoyment of 15 yearr, including 3 of grace.
Table 1(a)
Capitalization of Fund a  Measured by the Preent Value
of Not Funds Flowing to Fund over 20 Years, Expressed
as Percentage of Initial Loan Withdrawn over Three
Years.
Interest Rate      Term of Loan (Yrs) Inc. One year Grace
to Municipality         6                        10
8.5            33             19        10
9.0            41             26        18
9.5            49             34        25
10.0            57             42        33
10.5            66             51        42
11.0            76             60        51
Table I(b)
Capitalization of Fund as Measured by the Annual Balance
Estimated  to  Flow to  Fund  in Year  18. and Beyond,
Expressed as a 2 of the Average Annual Loons Financed
Under the Project for an Initial 3-Year Implementation
Period.
Interest Rate      Term of Loan (Yrs) Inc. One Year Grace
to Municikalitv           6              8        10
8.5            -15             -7        -2
9.0            -11             -2         2
9.5             -6              3         7
10.0              0              8        13
10.5              6             15        19
11.0             13             21        26



-63 4
PICIAL       EIPT  PEC,T
Table 2
Pr.vimcti de Codebe - heid Bd
1im iwa    1               1964   i1     lwo 1i7 .#
I.   TOTAL l_M                           S                                 S1    SI    fL4
1.Proevinial Revenue sUUI
- Tax                                                         in  In  in 
-Now-Ux                             of          1i      22     n 1    1      29    25
- Hot Credit                        -1   2U      21      a     -1      6     -4     26
.Ber       Iw                      -     sy    n       * P t  -             1 
.Pr=          Payments         0-1     6      6      *     -1      *     -5    -2
-Other                               1    1i      1      a      1      1      4      7
2. Natloal RovemP                        24?   227    U                            4U
- RNo-a  Sh aring or Grante              m 1                          m  
- Soil Secutiry                           46     so    42       7      -      -      -
-Otr Fed. Trnorters                 29   89    04       Zs    26 2    5      s      64
I!. TOTAL EXPNDIUES                      625  666   441    451    641       98      6    76
1. Current Expendture              4U4  4U    SU    478    668    U1    561    016
- Personnel                        IW    157   9!             la    In    HE I  n1
- Othr operations                   87    87     82    8S      56     5o     66     76
-Intrest Paymnts                     6     -      C      2      6      5      7      4
- Transfrs1 9    144   162    145    11u    190    126    182
. Sharlng w/ Municipalities       44    42     86    29      28     29     $8     Ss
Other to Municipalitle           2     2      2     29      7      8      6      6
Social Slcurity                  -    51     as     68     48     29     26      -
OtherTr nuf.re                  58    45     29     84    49      46     57    56
2. Capital Expenditure.                  122     61     6       6     67    10     15
- Physical lu                                           a5    "a      1     13    15
-Financial Operattone                6   85       a      6      a      6      a      9
MI. BALANCE (I-Il)                       +21  -56      .7    -8o    -96    -64    -n    -51
IV.  ACOCULATED BALANCE                  .92  +16   .48    .6   -96   -147   -218   -2609
Notes
~/    Current p o converted to constent peos of 12/16 through OGneral Uhol...l- Price Index
(weight * B.8) and Buenos Aires Coneumr Price  Index (Index a 9.67) and transformed to
US of 12/96 through use of the daily overage of the official exchng  rate of that month.
_/   Budgeted.



-64-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic and Social Anslysis
A.       ICONOHIC APPRAISAL
1.       As the projects presented by  the municipalities for the Municipal
Developmnt  Program  will be   relatively  "'eall'  (costing  loss  than
US$500,000), simplified methods may be used In project economic appraisal.
This simplification is essential for successful project implementation in
that each of the participating proviace must appralse many small projects
of different types (such as street paving, water supply and sanitary
fscilities), dispersed over a large geographic area.
2.       The general strategy  is  to make  conservative  estimates of net
benefits, and then to do three sensitivity analyses, assumingt (1) an
Increase of 20S in the project costs; (2) a reduction of 202 in the benefit
stream, and (3) both 202 reduction of benefits and 202 Increase in costs.
A social discount rate of 122, estimated to bo the opportunity cost of
capital in Argentina, is used in the analysis of alternatives.
3.       The measure of benefit  is  the  total increase in property values
resulting from the installation of the public good or services. According
to the capitalization hypothesis, "the benefits of infrastructure are
capitalized into a rise in land prices."l Benefits can, therefore, be
inferred by observing the changes in land prices.2 'If prices are charged
for services of infrastructure, land value differentials will measure only
the consumer's surplus part of the benefits and an appropriate benefit
measure is the sum of the tariff revenue and the measure derived from land
value differentials."3 However, although tariffs are charged for municipal
Infrastructure services in Argentina, they are not included as benefits, as
it is assumed that these charges cover costs of operation. Maintenance
costs, however, are included on the cost side. This is only one reason why
the not benefit estimtes are  conservative.    Another is exclusion of the
considerable external benefits accruing to those living outside the area in
Uhich the infrastructure investments are made. For example, many will use
the paved streets other than those living along them, and the community as
a whole benefits from the reduction in mosquitos and contagious disease due
to improved sewer and water systems. Finally, the annual benefit estimates
will be conservative because the total land value increment will be
transformed into an annual stream of benefits using the social rate of
1/ Y. Kanemoto, "Estimating Benefits of Infrastructure through the
Analysis of Land Value", Paper prepared for the World Bank, June 1985,
xerox, p.2.
2/ For a review of the literature on capitalization, see: J.R. Follain and
E. Jimenez, THE DEKAND FOR HOUSING CHARACTERISTICS IN DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES, Water Supply and Urban Development Department. The World
Bank, Washington, 1983.
3/  ibid., p.6.



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
Patg 2 of 8
discount of 122 rather then the market rates that are frequently twice as
high.4 For all of these re&aons, the estimates of project benefits can be
considered to be quite conservative.
4.       Shadow pricing is not  used,  because  a robust methodology, which
may be replicated in numerous, local cases, is appropriate. Furthermore,
not using shadow pricing does not Introduce a significant bias into the
methodology. Because the proposed vorks are relatively simple, using low
levels of technology, the proportion of labor costs end the proportion of
foreign exchange costs (predominantly indirect) are roughly equal.5 Thus,
the economic cost overestimation bias of using market prices for labor
tends to be cancelled by the economic cost underestimation of using market
prices for foreign exchange expenditures.
5.       In summary, the  general  approach  has  been  to make simplifying
assumptions that make the economic analysis financially feasible for
application in numerous, low-cost and widespread development projects. As
noted above, these simplifying assumptions, as applied to the particular
characteristics of the proposed works, result in a conservative (more
difficult to justify economically) bias for the methodology. Furthermore,
these simplifications make the methodology more accessible, and the
analysis a more practical tool, at the provincial and municipal levels.
6.       The crucial problem In benefit  calculation is how to estimate the
property value increments associated with different types of projects.
Only the Province of Buenos Aires has an updated tax file with land values
that approximate market values. A sample was selected in four communities
of the interior with relatively homogeneous income levels but with
different combinations of five kinds of infrastructure (gas, sewer and
water networks, street lighting and paving) and with no infrastructure of
these types. Binary variables denoting each type of infrastructure and
also distance from the city center (a proxy for access to jobs and
services) were then regressed against the market value of land per square
meter. The log-linear functional form produced the best fit.6 As the
households in question have similar income lovels, these benefit estimates
Qt The anual benefits are  calculated  as  the  monthly payment on a loan
with the principal equal to the total value of the land value increase
and the term equal to the economic life of the project.
5/ The foreign exchange requirements for the projects evaluated range from
25Z to 30Z, except for street lighting (402). The foreign exchange
requirements for the Municipal Development Project as a whole are
higher than for the projects evaluated, as many municipalities will
purchase imported equipment. Labor costs are estimated to be 302 of
total project costs.
6/ For a more details on the methodology sees Provincia de Buenos Aires,
PROGRAMA DE FORTALECIMIENTO MUNICIPAL, 1987, p.268-289.



- 66 -
Mm s
Page 3 of 8
can be taken s reasonable, If one assums that utility function are also
slullar.7 Given that th  sample  of  cities is reaonably representative of
the kid of cities  that will participate  In  the progrm for the other
provinces in terus of alse and Income levels, the benefit estinates for
Bueao Aires are used for the other five provinces, where date were not
available *
7.       These benefit estisates per  square  meter were then multiplied by
the are, of two block faces of standard alse, 5,000 square meters (100 K x
25 K x 2). To simplify presentation, this unit of spatial analysis will
hereafter be called a  *blocku.    Table  1 presents  the total and annual
project benefit *stimates for * block In US$ of June 1987 for each type of
project for the cities of the sample of the Province of Buenos Alres, as
well *  economic life  nd maintenance cost as,  fixed percentage of Initial
project cost. Table 2 shows total Initial project cost per block for each
of the five provinces for each of the four typ-e of lnfrastructure with
estimates for both concrete and asphalt paving costs.9
8.       Finally, Table 3 presents  the weighted  averag s of the lnternal
rate of return for all projects and for each type of project In all five
provinces.10 The weight employed In calculating this average is the
project's  cost  as  a  percentage  of  the  total  cost  of  the Municipal
Development Project. The projects evaluated represent 57.6Z of this total.
The average Internal rate of return for all projects Is 38.52. These rates
vary from 19.11 for swers to 84.41 for street lighting. Table 3 also
presents the results of the sensitivity analyses: the weighted average of
the Internal rate of return for all projects drops to 31.11 when costs are
Increased by 202; to 29.92 when benefits are reduced by 201, and to 23.72
when both costs are Increased and benefits reduced by 202.
B.       SOCIAL IMPACT
9.       The project would have a high  social impact In that it would help
meet the basic human needs of adequate' water supply and seweragell , as
|1 For example, see: D. Pines and Y. Weiss, 'Land Improvement Projects and
Land Values, JOURNAL OF URBAN  ECONOMICS, 3  (1976), pp. 1-13. A. M.
Poliosky and S. Shavell, 'Amenities of Property Values In a Model of an
Urban Area,' JOURNAL OF PUBLIC ECONOMICS, 5 (1976), pp. 119-129.
8I  The urban population of the four cities in the sample ranges from 6,600
to 81,500.
9/  For cost calculations, each block  is considered to be 110 meters long,
as it extends to the middle of the intersection.
10/ Concrete paving was excluded from this table pending further data for
comparative  analysis.   The   supplementary  tables  for  this   nnex
(available In the project file) present the internal rate of return,
present value and benefit/cost ratios for each type of project
(including concrete paving) In each province.
11/ Access to 'adequate sewer and water systems are considered to be basic
human needs  and  lack  of  such  access  is  used  in  the operational
definition of poverty in: INDEC, LA POBREZA EN LA ARGENTINA (Buenos
Aires: INDEC, 1985).



-67-
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE S
Page 4 of 8
well as improve living conditions through street paving and lighting and
other urban infrastructure and  services.    The Project will also increase
the  affordability  of urban  infrastructure  for  low-income  families by
allowing them to pay their bettermnt levies over longer periods. Finally,
the project will create _ loymnt opportunities.
10.      Systematic data to estimate  a   uunicipal infrastructure gap" are
not avalable for all typs  of  infrastructure.    NDEC data on sanitary
facilities provide, however, an indicator of unfulfilled infrastructure
demand by province and by municipal eligibility. 2 Table 4 ghows that in
1980, there wero a total of 387 thouand housing units in the eligible
mniflcipalities with minadequate sanitary facilities" (defined as laeking
flush toilets or lacking any type of sanitary facilities). To give an idea
of magnitude, this total deficit is equivalent of almost 1.5 times the
number  of  households  in  Gran   Rosario  in  1980  (the  second  largest
metropolitan  area  in Argentina).        The   percontages  of  units with
"lnadequate"  sanitary  facilities  were   much   higher  In  the  eligible
municipalities of the five provinces than In those not eligible. For all
eligiblo municipalities, this percentage was 21.5Z versus 18.31 for the
lneligiblo  ones.    In  the  five  provinces,  52.91  of  the  units with
"inadequate'  sanitary   facilities   were   located   In   the   eligible
municipalities in 1980.    Almost  a  quarter  of  the  deficit in sanitary
facilities for the country as a whole was concentrated in these eligible
municipalities in 1980.
11.      Meetings with  mayors  and  financial  officers  of municipalities
revealed that the traditional way of helping poorer families pay betterment
levies for urban infrastructure is to increase the payback period. The
Impact of increasing this period on the size of the monthly payment is much
greater than lowering  the  Interest  rate  (See  Table  5).   For example,
increasing the payback period from 3 to 6 years reduces the annual payment
by almost half, whereas lowering the Interest rate from 12.02 to 8.51 for a
3 year loan reduces the monthly payment by only 5.71. Without the Project,
extending tho payback period is very difficult because little or no
financing is available to the municipalities, even with real market
Interest rates of up to about 21 per month.
12.      Finally, the  project will  increase  employment.   Accepting the
estimate of 301 for the cost  of  labor  in  total project cost and using a
rough estimate of the monthly wage of construction workers of US$100, the
Project should generate approximately 58,000 man years of work. This does
not include the impact of the Municipal Development Fund, which would
provide project replicability after the Bank loan is repaid.
12/ Excluding the eligible localities of the Partidos of La Plata, General
Pueyrredon and Bahia Blanca for which no data are available.



- 68 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 8
, hR6ENTIN
1ItICIPAL DEUELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1
Economic Appraisal of Infrastructuro Projects in Five Provine-s:
Total and Annual Iena       E
Benefits per Block Economic Maintenance Cost
(US$ of 7/1987)      Life    (1 of initial
Result. by               ------------------            cost)
Type of Project            Total   Annual
Project benefits
Woter supply             15,779    l,959          30        iX
Sewers                    8,284    1.028          30        2X
Street lighting          108935    1,358          30        1X
Asphalt Paving           26,628    3,910          15      ;a)
Concrete Paving          26,628    3,395          25       1I
NOTE:  Maintenance costs were estimated for asphalt paving based
on results of a study in Curitiba, Parana, Brazil. The costs for
the first two years were 2erol for the third and fourth years. a
total of 1O8 of the Initial costi for the fifth and sixth years. a
total of 251 of the initial cost, and for the seventh through
fifteenth years, a total of 5S% of initial cost for recaping. These
totals were treated as annual avera&es for the years in question.
Table 2
Economic Appraisal of Infrastructure Projects in Five Provinces:
Costs
Results in US$ of July 1987 for a City Block
Results by                 Buenos   Cordoba  La Pampa Neuquen  Santa Fe
Type of Project            Aires
________________ ________________ _________________ _______________-----
Project costs per block
WVter supply                3,359    3.882    3,780              3,225
Sewers                      4,669    4,374    4,689    5,612    4,943
Street lighting             1,699    1,616                       1.534
Asphalt Paving              9,786    9,317    9,170   10,367    9,286
Concrete Paving            13,062   11,851                      13,167



- 69 -
Annex S
Page 6of 8
ARGENTINA
IUNICIPAL DEVELOPPENT PROJECT
Table 3
Weighted Averages of the Internal Rate of Return for
the main TYpeS oF Pr-ojeCts for all Provinces
Internal Rate
of Return
Results by                  Weighted Average (a)
Type of Project
All Projects                    38.65
Water supply                  56.0X
Sewers                        19.1S
Street lighting               84.4%
Asphalt Paving                36.42
Sensitivity analysis:
Internal rate of return
a) 201 cost increase
All projects                  31.1S
Water supply                  45.S5
Sewers                        15.5X
Street lighting               70.1X
Asphalt Paving                25.0X
b) 202 benefit reduction
All Projects                  29.9X
Water supply                  46.3X
Sewers                        14.7S
Street lighting               67.32
Asphalt Paving                27.42
c) both 202 cost Increase b
20S benefit reduction
All Projects                  23.72
Water supply                  38.42
Sewers                        11.72
Street lighting               55.91
Asphalt Paving                21.1X
NOTE:  (a) Calculated using the relative weight of each type of
project In each province in total project cost. Concrete paving
Is excluded pending further data fer cesparative analysis.



-70 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 8
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL OEVELOPfENT PROJECT
Table 4
Private Households with *lnadeauate' Sanitary Facilities by Eliaibilitv
to Participate in the Iunicipal Development Project *nd Province: 198
-------------------------------------------------------------__------
Total Households Sanitary Facilities (c)
Eligibility, Province,       ----------------  --------------------------
Agglomeration              Abs.      X      Total       X    X in S
(6o9's)          Deficit  Deficit Provinces
TOTAL                           7.104  100.0X 1.626,115    22.9X
Subtotal for the 5 provinces   3,995   56.21   732,405    18.31   100.0X
Not Eligible                  2.198   30.91   345,318    15.7     47.1X
Province of Buenos Aires   1.887   26.62   274,404    14.51    37.5S
Conurbation of B. A.       1.755   24.72   250.982    14.32    34.3X
La Plate--Pertido(a)         132    1.9X     9,821      7.41     1.32
nar del Plata--Locality      118    1.7X     8.768      7.4X     1.2X
Gran Bahia Blanca--Loc.       63    0.9X     4.833      7.72     0.7X
Province of Cordoba
Cordoba (Capital)            236    3.3X    28.000    11.92      3.82
Province of Santa Fe          318    4.51    35,458    11.21      4.8X
Rosario (Municipality)       243    3.41    24,288    10.02      3.3X
Santa Fe (Municipality)       75    1.12    11,170    14.91      1.5X
Province of Neuquen            12    0.22     7.456    61.62      1.02
Eligible                      1,797   25.32   387,087    21.52    52.9X
Province of Buenos Aires      979   13.81   149,116    15.2     20.42
Province of Cordoba           374    5.32   108.612    29.61    14.80
Province of Santa Fe          346    4.91   105.969    30.62    14.52
Province of La Pampa           57    0.82    13,581    23.8X      1.91
Province of Neuquen (b)        41    0.6X      9,809    23.91     1.31
Rest of Country                 3.109   43.81   89:,710    28.72
SOURCE: INDEC, CENSO NACIONAL DE POBLACION Y UIVIENDA -1980,
Sarie C, Vivienda. All data except for La Plate, Bahia Blanca, iar
del Plate, Rosario and Santa Fe are from Cuadro 20. These oThers are
from Cuodro 21 for localities, excluding rural areas.
NOTES: (a) including the eligible localities within La Plate end Bahia Blanca
(b) cicluding the rural part of Neuquen.
(c) all units without a flush toilet or with no facility
at all are included in the deficit.



- 71 -
Lnnex s
Page 8 of 8
AR6ENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5
The Annual Payment for a Totel Pavment ot USS I1
with Different Interest Rotes and Payment Periods
Interest        Payment Period in Years
Rates           2        3        4        5        6
8.5X   56.46    39.15    30.S3    25.38    21.96
9.01   56.85    39.51    30.87    25.71    22.29
9.51   57.23    39.86    31.21    26.04    22.63
10.0S  57.62    40.21    31.55    26.38    22.96
11.01  58.39    40.92    32.23    27.06    23.64
12.0X  59.17    41.63    32.92    27.74    24.32
Index:
Base: 2 year repayment
8.5S    1.00    0.69      0.54     0.45     0.39
9.01    1.00     0.69     0.54     0.45     0.39
9.51    1.00     0.70     0.55     6.46     0.40
10.0X    1.00    0.70      0.55     0.46     0.40
11.01    1.00    0.70      0.55     0.46     0.40
12.01    1.00    0.70     0.56      0.47     0.41



- 72 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Pro.lect Oserations Manuals
1.       Bach Province's Project Operations Manual would contain sufficient
detall to (a) provide  guidelines  to  all municipalities on the project's
objectives,  eligibility  criteria  and   operational procedures  and  (b)
establish Its operational coittsent to all of the agreements made with the
Central Government and the  Bank.    The  Bank has reviewed each Province's
final draft of its Manual as a condition of negotiations, and the minimum
content of the Manuals Is laid out below.
Municipal Elitibility Criteria
2.       This part of the Manual  should establish the criteria established
in par&s. 2.06-2.07.
Comuonent Eliuibtlitv Criteria
3.       This should confirm the understandings  described in paras. 2.11-
2.13. In addition, each Province would include assurances that acceptable
engineering practices will be used for the design, review, execution and
supervision of works, including the PEU's obligation to review ex-ante all
procurement procedures and to verify and to certifify that actual works and
equipment purchased are in conformity with procurement specifications.
General design criteia, as well as unitary specifications have been
reviewed and found acceptable, and typical investment component unit costs
are presented in Table 1 of this Annex.   The unit costs presented In this
table are based on the following parameters:
Infrastructure
Street Paving       asphalt, with width of 7m.
Street Curbing      concrete
Water Supply        residential  or  commercial  connections  with pipes
from 9 63mm to % 140am, and street repaving
Swerage             residential or  commerclal connections  with pipes
from A 150mm to N 200mm, and street repaving
Gas                 residential  or  commercial connections  and street
repaving.
Street Lighting     Installation  or  extension  of  public  lighting in
urban areas -- unit cost assumes three lampposts per
city block, aerial network and 125w lamps.
Community Facilities   unit  costs  include   facility  construction,  plus
street access and landscaping.
Transfer of Funds
4.       This should be consistent with  paras. 2.21-2.25 and 2.30-2.35, as
well as the further conditions detailed below.
Operational ArranEements
5.       The Manuals would contain  a  description  of the role, powers and
responsibilities of the Provincial PEU during project execution, including



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
arrangemnts for supervision, accounting and auditing (pares. 2.38-2.39),
monitoring and reporting.  The Minuels also *hould include * decrlption of
the  technical   assistance   and   financing  term    available   to  the
municipalities, norms and criteria regarding environmental Impact, standard
draft agreements (including model tonder documents for each category of
procurent. as established in pars. 2.30-2.31)  to bc entered into by the
Province  and   its   agencies,   the   PEU,   financial  intermediary  and
municipalities. These draft *groewnts would include, ltur alia, the
following specific conditions    (a)  the  obligation  of  the PW to verify
actual physical progress in the execution of a sub-project before the
release of loan funds; (b) the sources and applications of the counterpart
funds required for the execution of each municipality's annual investment
program; and (c) that the PEU must confirm that all investment components,
or larger infrastructure systam of which the componente are a part, must
fully comply with environmntal protection legislation as a condition for
financing the component under the project



-14-
Page 1 of 5
MUNICIPAL DMIlPH3   IROJDCT
Typical Ilvestsmt Comewt Unit Costs
(in US$ of January 1988)
Ustimated   Total Loa
Qantity    Bae, Costs        of            US$
CONPOINKT               (1000)     (US$'000)    Total      Typical Unit Cost
Infrastructure
Stret Curbing           461        8,165        4.1           17.7/.
Street Paving         4,540       62,578       31.7           13.81.2
Water Supply            440       159197        7.7           34.51m
Swerage                 453       21,993       11.2           48.6/.
Gas Line                215        .7,178       3.6           33.41m
Street Lighting         397        6,331        3.2           15.91m
Other Works                       14,752        7.5
Community Facilities
Bau Stations             16        5,520        2.8          350.21m2
Child and Health
Care Centers             12        2,584        1.3          217.0/m2
social and
Culteral Centers          8        3,428        1.7          406.8lm2
Other Facilities                   5,953        3.0



75                      Pogo 2 of 5
-Ill
MICIPL NULO? mm
ablo 2
Projet C.t. hi Ccnt
( i-       wde if            1
.... .eosw----st  ^*v**--v@  *       w ...... .............. . .. . ...  -  ----
f.e.0  hort
Prellet cmut                           oal F uiup      Teta    I    hu  co
......... . ........ . .... . ................... .. . ........ . .
II t"  mess
A. Il A?UU
Steet Curbig                     6,252    2,014      ,331   2it      4.1
Stret Pvin                      45,111   16,337   64,46S  301    31.?
Water &nly                      10,016 41,6117   15,65    3n         1.1
S  r                            15,141    6,832   22,713   312    11.2
Con  11es                        S,4U1    1,031    7,320   252       3.6
Stret Ligting                    3,114   2,603    6,501   40S        3.2
Other                           11,615    4,515   15,250   3t2    1.5
Subtotal 1                    98,341   41,917  141,299   3n    61.1
I. -COInI   fICILITIIS
In  Statiols                     3,190    1,113    5,111   3n        2.8
Child ad ealth Cma  Cters   1,656           115    2,651   302       1.3
Socil ud Cultural Cutero         2,421    1,04      3,167   302      1.2
Other hblic hildigs             4I,263    1,06    6,11    301        3.0
Subtotal I                    12,564    5,315   17,146   30n      1.1
C. PR CT  SIAI  1(  z 1)             l,l16    1,662   11,11   152        5.5
3.  WINE? A   llUCLIS                4,711   10,042   23,552   00       11.1
1. TECUIAUJ USISTACE                 6,511    3,553   10,152   35       5.0
! ............ ............. -------
mu  COSt                           131,630   11,301  203,021   352   100.0
Pyical Ilcse                    13,163    7,1410   2,303  3S        10.6
Price Ecalation                 10,000    5,05    16,656   352       0.2
Subtotal CotigesCes           23,163   12,110   36,161   352    10.2
TOaL PRCT COST                     155,533   04,31?  240,10   35    11-.2



- 76 -
'tt 7
Page 3 of 5
MICIPL Nllo?l             PIICT
Table 3
betailed  roject Costs adi Csatiguciei  Calcelati e
(is 1S$ Tiosmd oG Jauury 1#6l)
Des.    CoatiaUgcies        Total
Project Counosts                        Costs  Phydical    Price   Costs
U11 live Provinces
A. Il lASTRUfTUIl
Stet Curbing                        6,337       634     604    1,154
Street Paving                      64,456    6,446    5,218   76,190
Vater Supply                       15,65S    1,566    1,265   16,507
Severs                             22,713    2,271    1,669   26,119
Gas Lines                           7,320       732      601    8,653
Street Lighting                     6,507       651      534    7,691
Other                              15,250    1,525    1,251   18,026
Subtotal A                      140,299   14,030   11,511  165,840
a. COUMIIIm  IACILITIIS
h s Stations                        5,711       571      469    6,751
Child ad Lealth Care Catens         2.651       265      218    3,134
Social aud Cultural Centers         3,467       3417     24    4,099
Other Public huildings              6,119       612      502    7,233
Sobtotal I                       17,14s    1,795    1,413   21,216
C. PIOJICT DISI0  12(1 I 1)            11,017    1,166       109   13,094
D.  IQUINIUT AD I ICLIS                23,552    2,355    1,932   27,640
1.  iCIIICUL ASSIStIEcI                10,152    1,015       133   12,100
TOT" L PIOJICt COSTS                  203,029   20,303   16,658  240,000



-77 -
Amex?
minim                                   ~~~~Page 4 of 5
luetmmt Siekl Ii kW Crnee
lbe IN lInsed   humie,  16)
PreiatCa "Uee                     hl        163      13       13        1u1      132      133       1sm      13111
A11 lIve ?bemes
has  ets A                 1326        11      124      23.13   21.4631   21.12   21.V16  14.34    3I'm
NReIal Cemtl.eu e    14,63             Ml61     U 1,4  2,311    3.111    2.101    2,341    1,4134      316
Phice C.tiaseeie          11,111        31      26       641    I' 1,   .163    2.61   2,'m            146
Csetiajmlae a  A  5,54  582    1,446    2,312    46 5 1311    51,14     4,161    1,32
leltetal A  161,348    6,264 13,656   26,361   36.I3   32,13    21,16   11,13           4.136
Dee Cot I                                ?1i46 11  1,56  2,356    4,612    3,5111    2,136    131         3"1
61vicaI ceet miaee         1,131        12     1in       236      43        311      2        131        33
?uiftcCmt   wiagee         1,413         4       a6        2      n1o       32       M1       341        31
Cetetlgeaciudo           3,26         16      131      31       624       333      I   65   132      131
WeIOWe  3               21,216       134    1,113    3,334    4,63     4135a   3,416    2,446        135
C. mm ICinSJ
kWem. ut  C                 11,611       443      33    1,325    2,113    2,163    1,121    1,133        141
ftyuicel Ceetlegaces       1,156        44       a       1I2      251       211      113      113       24
?ri  cCmtiageuiu             3           2       16       11      134       23       23       211       61
Cmtiageaciu.aC           2,11?       41       114      233     2S1        423      436      323       63
letotelu   C            12,464       66    1,'m      2,618    2,63      ,133    2,133    1,13        324
3.  336333  mE UICLIS
ha. bts I                   23,55        34     2,3313   3,313    1,344    4,312    3,611    2,W1         113
?1beiceCsetmiepsc          2,355        34      M6       36       134       41       361      251        I1
hrimceC.tleci u            1,33          1       34      1n       25        431      4ly      448      1i5
C.tIaeumisuaD            4,24         3       243      43       31l       U33      364     6In       ITT
teltotl I               21,343    1,341    2,323    4,311     6,1162    1,1114   4,13513,231         GU
3. IDUICL A3SI6AI3 AD
iee bets 3                  13,112       44        3    1,612    2,26       1,36    1,56      1,3m       321
lijeical Cmtiegmls         1,31         41       3       161      233       13       113      16        22
hin Cebetlpgel               633         2       15       46      12        13       216      163       54
Cetlgeimmi   Os I        1343         43     1in       214      353       311     3M        331       16
hae  Cbet  AI#bC.3.        26332       3,121   11,35    33,442   46,393  231,161   31,340   21,621    4,426
wesial betISgecAU    23,36             612    1,136    3,344    43    3,61         3,161    3,162      432
Princ btiageaci.          13.61         45      21?      32 12446    3,116   4,262    3,33   1I'm
Sebtotall 3,                     1351    2,33    4,211    1,35         1,61      1,441    6,622    1,522
1m1u  cost A.3.C+b             246,336   6,31    26,31    1,1.13   13,116   41,443   3,313   2I1,63    1,36



-78-
AM 7
Page 5 of 5
NOLC    DOLOmN  rO
Table 5
F                        | ~~~~~t1st mtd Sc*611  2  o  Disabcte    ts
(18$ )Mi Ai.)
Fi cal                        Die     _Cueel Ot"    Sb               mt
X       Sa8eater  adium     it Sae4tor          Anomt 1     of Ttal
1988 a      06/30188               5.0             5.0         4.2
1989        12131188               4.8             9.8         8.2
06130/89               4.9            14.7       12.3
1990        12/31189               9.1            23.8        19.8
06/30190               9.2            33.0       27.7
1991        12/31/90              12.9            45.9        38.3
06/30191              12.9            58.8       49.0
1992        12/31/91              11.5            70.3        58.6
06/30/92              11.5            81.8       68.2
1993        12/31/92               9.5            91.3        76.1
06/30193               9.5           100.8       84.0
1994 b      12/31/93               8.3           109.1        90.9
06/30/94               7.8           116.9       97.4
1995 b      12131194                1.6          118.5        98.8
06130195               1.5           120.0      100.0
a   Includes initial deposits of US$5 million into the Special Account and
retroactive financing.
b   Rate of disbursement reduced to recover advance made to Special
Account.



79 -
AM=C 8
Page 1 of 2
SELECTED DOCUKMNTS AND DATA AVAILAWLE IN PROJECT FILE
A. Instituto NMaconal de Estadisttca v Conso. (INDEC)
1. La Pobresa en la Argentina, 1985
2. Canao Nactonal do Poblaclon y Vlviada -- 1980
Serte C. Vivionda, Tom I and II
Serle D. Poblaclon, Total del Pais
Proycceton de Poblacton 1970-2025, Urbana y Rural y
Economicam_nt- Act va por Sexo * Grupo do Edad
3. Cnso Nacional Economico: 1985, Industrta Manufactureras Resultados
antlcipados
4. CenDo Nactonal Economico: Resultedo. Provisional**
5. Indleador do Demand. Laborals 1974 - 1984
6. Indice do Precios aI Por Mayor, Bose 1981
7. Indice do Procios al Consumddor,  Serl, Retrospective 1960 - 1979,
Base 1974.
8. Encuesta Pemanonte de Hogares, Resultados Preltminares, Abril 1984
9. Estadtsttca Mensual, Febrero 1987
B. Pundacton de Investitactones Economicas Lattnoamertcana.
1. El Gasto Publico en la Argenttna 1960-1985
2. E1 Gasto Publico en la Argentina: 1960-1983
3. Indtcadores de Coyuntura, No. 250, Enero 1987
4. Gasto Publico Provincial, Apendice E, Gaoto Publico: Propuestas
de Reformm del Sector Publtco Argenttno, Volume II, Tomo II,
Noviembre 1986
C. Conseio Federal do Inversiones
1. Ruben Domtngo Poncto, Coparttctpacion Nunictpal, Informe Ftnal,
Abril 1986.
2. Jesus Irlbarren, Coparttcipacion, Informacton Btbltografica, 1986
(Annotated Bibliography)
3. Jorge Macon, Perspectivas del Sistets do Coparticipacton, Diie mbre
1985.
4. Horaclo  Nunez Minana  and  Alberto  Porto, Dtstrtbucton  de  la
Coparticipacton Federal do Impuestoss Analists y Alternattvas,
1982, Anexo C from Chapter IV.
5. Alb-rto Porto, Anallse  del Impacto  de  los Aportes  del Tesoro
Nactonal sobre las Finan as Provinciales, MNrzo 1986.
6. Corocterizscton  Socto-economica  de  1  Provtncia  do La Pampa,
Octubre, 1984.
D. Nintsterlo de Salud v Accion Social. Secretaria de Vivienda v
Ordenamiento Ambtental
1. Prograa Global do Financiamiento de Infrastructuro y Equip_mento
Urbanos, Capitulo II, El Marco do Referoncta dol Programa, 1987.
(Document presented to IDB)



_ -80-                            ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
S.  Provincia de Buenos Air*.
1. Progrma de FortalocWlinto Municipal, Abril 1987, Lay Organic, de
Las Municipalid.des
2. Coparticipacion Impositiva a Mmnicipalidad-s, 1980
3. Reglsm_nto do Contabilidae y Disposiciones de Administracion
F.  Provincia de Cordoba
1. Secretaria Ministerio de Planinmiento y Coordinacion,
2. Subsecrotaria do Planeanilntos
3. Progra_  do Accion Municipal, Diciembre 1986
4. E1 Noroeste Cordobes, Caracterizacion General, Mayo 1984
5. E1 Eot- Cordobes, Carscterizacion General, Sot. 1985
6. Rbsena Estadistica 1986187
7. Informes Departamentales: Depart_mento Tercero Arribe, Octubre
1984
8. Regimen de Coparticipacion de Impuestos pars las Municipalidades y
Comisianes Vecinalos de la Provincia, Ley No. 7535, Enero 1987.
G. Provincla do Santa Fe
1. Instituto Provincial do Estadistica y Censos, Anuaria Estadistico:
1970-1984
2. Minist,rio  do  Economia,  Hacienda   y  Finansas,  Metodologia  de
Distribucion   de   Impuestos    Nacionales    y   Provinciales   a
Municipalidades y Comisionos do Fomento, no date.
H.  Provincia de La Pampa
1. Ley Organics de Municipalidades y Comision.s de Fomento
2. Map of the Province
3. Ley No. 975, EstablecW*ento sistema de distribucion de limpuesto
entro la  Provincia,  Municipalidades  y  Comisiones  de  Foment* y
creando el Fondo do Desarrollo Comunal (FODECO).
I. Provincia del Neuauen
1. Direccion Provincial do Estadistica
Anuario Estadistico 1980
Actividad Economic- Provincia, Periodo 1970-1980
2. Loy No. 53, Direccion General de Municipslidades, 1977
3. Ley 1212, (regulating coparticipacion), Abril 1980
J. Other Material
1. Domingo F. Cavallo y Juan A. Zapata, El Desafio Federal (Buenos
Aires: Sudsmericana-Planet-, 1986).
2. P.H. Randle, Una Nueva Capital (Buenos Aires: OIKO, 1986)
3. Mario Q. Castillo, La Argontina Descentralizada (Buenos Alrest
EUDEBA, 1986)
3.  Silvia Blitzer et  al.    Las  Ciudades  Intermedias  y Pequenas en
America Latina (Buenos Aires: CEUR, 1983).
4.  Susana Torrado,  La  Familla  como  Unidad  do Analise  on Censo y
Encuestas do Hogares (Buenos Aires: CEUR, 1983).



l                     - -  -.--------t------M                        PSE TO N
MAP SECTION



IBRD 2048
BOLIVIA              !60
~~ ;      i            ~~\ Lopdoo 7>s / PtiAi oo
PARAGO) AY
i  <      s 4a>~~LA                 ......                            B R A Z I L
ci~~~~~~~~~I
*w  -$t                O 2        F 
~SANTIAGO! RESiSTENcia   -Posodo  Iu*
-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
SAN~~~~~~~~~
A  SA                        iloCos'so
,    HI LE               LSANX
e    ENDOZA  jLUIS-
ARGENTINA
NC  X   Sf  RIO NEGRO  llt   MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT4
PROJECT
( 5   Sun Corts de Boriluche
a,    Z.            CHBU                                                  MOW R..  9
- f-
LI~~~~~~~~~R
FALKIAD =LNDS
4LAMD6 MLiS IWPffN A"NM~t4 *WMICH UW54
rh.W  bm  s  '                                                        ISD SOV"EWIG4AA0 TAW U t. WMCHADA.N'tST4~
I    W  .    muw* 
SW VW too  Aos" -r                         eG
KILOMETERS 0     200       00       600     800
NWs i w m
*W ft"&.v - w                                                MIES 0      100    200     00    400     So
*', 661                                              - .5 _ .  40 -  S  ftStS ffEiW SGFI.IthZ W!iCHJAUR19
<b w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUR  1968



