Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2920 AR 
(Municipal Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PROVINCIA DE LA PAMPA
Dated November 29, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2920 AR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 29, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PROVINCIA DE LA PAMPA (La Pampa).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make  available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one  hundred twenty million 
dollars ($120,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that La Pampa agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and La Pampa, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the  Loan Agreement 
will be made available to La Pampa on the terms and conditions  set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS La Pampa, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General  Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Municipal Development Fund" means the Fund established by La Pampa by 
law No. 1098, dated October 5, 1988;
(b)
"PEU" means the Project Executing Unit established by La Pampa by Decree 
No. 1365, dated June 8, 1987, and to be maintained for purposes of the execution of 
the Project pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
(c)
"Project Operations Manual" means the manual of operating policies  and 
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, approved by La Pampa by Law No.  1098, dated 
October 5, 1988 for purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) La Pampa declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end,  shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this  Section 
and except as the Bank and La Pampa shall otherwise agree, La Pampa shall select 
Eligible Municipalities and Eligible Sub-projects, enter into Sub-loan Agreements, 
procure and cause to be procured goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, maintain and cause to be maintained records and accounts and have such 
records and accounts audited, prepare and approve annual investment, technical and 
training programs and in general, carry out Project activities in accordance with this 
Agreement and the Project Operations Manual.
(c)
The provisions of this Agreement shall prevail over the provisions of the 
Project Operations Manual.
(d)
La Pampa shall make Sub-loans to Eligible Municipalities to finance the 
execution of Eligible Sub-projects in terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
as set forth in the Project Operations Manual.
(e)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree, La Pampa shall not amend, 
abrogate, waive, fail to enforce or repeal the Project Operations Manual, the  
Sub-loan Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02. (a) La Pampa shall maintain the PEU for purposes of  coordinating, 
supervising and participating in the execution of the Project  with functions, 
responsibilities and staffing levels satisfactory to La Pampa  and the Bank, until the 
issuance of the final completion report referred to in Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and shall provide PEU with the staff, funds and other resources required 
for the timely and efficient carrying out of its functions and responsibilities.
(b)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, La Pampa shall not amend, repeal 
or abrogate the Decree No. 1365, dated June 8, 1987, that established PEU.
Section 2.03. (a) Not later than September 30 each year, La Pampa, through PEU, 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval, a detailed annual investment 
program for the immediately following calendar year (the Annual  Investment  Program), 
such program to be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request and 
to include municipal investment projects which meet the eligibility criteria set forth 
in the Project Operation Manual and provincial technical assistance and training 
programs eligible for financing under the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
If significant deficiencies in the carrying out of the Project at the 
provincial level or in the carrying out of Eligible Sub-projects or management of the 
municipal level are noted by the audit and management reports referred  to in Article 
III of this Agreement or during the Bank's or PEU's supervision  of the Project, La 
Pampa, through PEU, shall: (i) include in the program referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, one or more technical assistance  plans to remedy such deficiencies, and 
(ii) condition the inclusion of  investment plans by the affected Municipalities in 
the Annual Investment Program, to the acceptance and execution by such Municipalities 
of technical assistance activities designed by the PEU for these purposes.
Section 2.04. (a) La Pampa shall maintain the Municipal Development Fund, and 
shall contribute, inter alia, into such Fund all the proceeds collected as principal, 
interest and other charges on Sub-loans (such proceeds hereinafter called the Loan 
Proceeds);
(b)
La Pampa shall manage the Loan Proceeds in accordance with   appropriate 
financial and administrative practices, satisfactory to the Bank, and shall utilize 
such proceeds exclusively to: (i) make payments of principal, interest and other 
charges on the Subsidiary Loan, and (ii) finance municipal investments, including 
technical assistance and training programs, similar to those eligible for financing 
under the Project, such financing to be provided at interest rates which together with 
the adjustments applicable to the principal of such loans are positive in relation to 
the Inflation Index; and
(c)
La Pampa shall manage the Municipal Development Fund in accordance   with 
appropriate financial and administrative practices.
Section 2.05. La Pampa shall cause the Eligible Sub-projects to be carried out 
with due regard to ecological and environmental concerns, as provided in the Project 
Operations Manual.
Section 2.06. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be  financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 6 to 
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. La Pampa shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions  (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in  respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.08. La Pampa shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, La Pampa shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) La Pampa shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
La Pampa shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by La Pampa of  its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) La Pampa shall maintain and cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound   accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  the Project of 
PEU, the Municipalities and other agencies or departments of La Pampa responsible for 
the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
La Pampa shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
Page  4
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of such fiscal year the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank  shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, La Pampa, through PEU, 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, La Pampa shall cause the auditors referred to in paragraph (b)  (i) of such 
Section to issue: (i) every six months a performance report, of  such scope and detail 
as the Bank shall reasonably request, regarding the compliance by the Municipalities 
and La Pampa and its Agencies and Departments  responsible for the carrying out of the 
Project (including PEU) with the  provisions of this Agreement, and the Project 
Operations Manual, the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Sub-loan Agreements; and 
(ii) jointly with the report referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, a 
report on the accounts and financial situation of the Municipal Development Fund.
(b)
La Pampa shall furnish to the Bank: (i) as soon as available, but in any 
event not later than 60 days from the date they are issued, copies of the  reports 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and (ii) such other information 
concerning such reports as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective, if La Pampa is among the  Provinces 
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement,  or on the date on 
which the Bank dispatches notice to La Pampa of its  acceptance of the evidence 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of La Pampa 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall  terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify La Pampa thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full  force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  5
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by  this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the  party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Provincia de La Pampa:
Ministerio de Obras y Servicios Publicos
Centro Civico
6300 Santa Rosa
La Pampa
Republica Argentina
Telex:
390083113
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of La Pampa may 
be taken or executed by the Governor of La Pampa or such other  person or persons as 
the Governor of La Pampa shall designate in writing, and La Pampa shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
PROVINCIA DE LA PAMPA
By /s/ Elva Roulet
Authorized Representative
Page  6
