Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICtE I 9s  (2 'HE CoPYi'a
Reprti  teNo.    28 -UI                             ReportNo. 10282-UNI
QUEi, C .  / XBJ   5 / J6 051/ AF4AIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
MAY 29, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Region
This document has a restrictez! distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(April 1992)
Currency Unit         =      Naira (N) = 100 Kobo (k)
US$1                  =      N18.00
Naira (N)                    US$0.0556
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)     =      0.62 miles
I meter (m)          -      3.28 feet
25.4 millimeters (mm) =      I inch



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYIS
ADT           -      Average Daily Traffic
ECOWAS        -      Economic Community of West African States
EIA           -      Environmental Impact Assessment
ERA           -      Economic Rate of Return
FEPA          -      Federal Environmental Protection Agency
FGN          -       Federal Government of Nigeria
FHD           -      Federal Highways Departmem
FHWA          -      U.S. Federal Highway Administration
FMA           -      Federal Ministry of Aviation
FMF          -      Federal Ministry of Finance
FMT           -     Federal Ministry of Transport
FMWH         -      Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GVW           -     Gross Vehicle Weight
HSL           -     Highway Sector Loan
ICB           -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB                  Local Competitive Bidding
LaC           -      Local Government Council
MSRP          -      Multistate Roads Project
NAA           -     Nigerian Airports Authority
NHI           -     National Highway Institute (U.S)
NPA           -     Nigerian Ports Authority
NPV           -     Net Present Value
NRC          -      Nigerian Railway Corporation
NRRMI        -      Nigeria Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Initiative
NSRP          -      National State Roads Program
NTCC          -      National Transport Coordinating Commission
PEU           -      Pavement Evaluiation Unit
PIARC         -      Permanent International Association of Road Congresses
PLW           -     Project Launch Workshop
PPEU          -     Project Planning and Evaluation Unit
RMES          -     Road Maintenance Extension Service
RMN           -     Resident Mission Nigeria
SAP           -      Structural Adjustment Program
SMOWT         -     State Ministry of Works and Transport
SOE           -      Statement of Expendittao
SSA           -      Sub-Saharan Africa
TPP           -      Transport Parastatals Project
TRS           -      Trunk Roads Study
TTC           -      Technology Transfer Center
VOC           -      Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
CRED1T AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   ................................   i
I. INTRODUCTION    .....................................                                               1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...... ..................                                                    2
A. Overview  of the Sector  .............................    2
B. Transport Planning and Coordination .....................    2
C. Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Roads Sector and
Lessons Learned  ..             .        ............................    3
I i. THE ROAD  SUB-SECTOR    ..............................                                           3
A. The Road Network ................................    4
B. Road Safety  ...........                    .........................                     5
C. Roads Administration  ..............................    5
D. State Roads  ...........                    .........................    6
E. Development of State Roads  ..........................    7
F. Development Strategy  ..............................    7
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement ........................    8
H. Financing the State Roads Program    .....................    8
IV. THE PROJECT  ......................................   10
A. Project Objectives  ...............                        .................    10
B. Project Description ............. ..                       .................    10
C. Cost Estimates and Financing  .........                 ..       ..............   12
D. Road User Charges and Cost Recovery  ...... ..                         ...........   13
E. Implementation            ................               ..................   14
F. Procurement           .................               ...................   15
G. Disbursements             ................               ..................   17
H. Accounting and Auditing  .............                         ...............   19
I. Reporting and Monitoring  ............................    19
J. Environmental Aspects ..............................   19
K. Project Supervision   ..............                        .................   20
V. PROIECT JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS  ......................   21
VI. AGREEMENTS AND  RECCaIM  ENDATION  ...................   22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Nigeria in November/December
199,., comprising Messrs./Mme. C. Queiroz (Sr. Highway Engineer and Mission Leader), A. Bhandari
(Engineer/Economist), E. Warner (Financial Analyst), S. Berkman (Training Specialist), A. Dalfelt
(En% ironmental Specialist) and 0. Ikejiani (Engineer, RMN). Mr. R. Gopalcrishnan (Procurement Specialist)
advised on procurement; Mr. J. IsotaJo (Road Maintenance Specialist) advised on the Road Maintenance Initiaive;
Mr. W. Williams (U.S. FHWA) advised on the technology transfer aspects of institutional development. Report
production was done by Mmes. E. Sunderland and U. Raymond. Editing was done by Mr. H. Young
(Corsultant). The peer reviewers were Messrs. J. Schwartz and W. Paterson. Messrs. J. Wright and E. Lim are
the Division Chief and Director, respectively, of this operation.



ANNEXES
1-1    Nigeria Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Initiative
2-1    Past Bank Involvement in the Road Sub-Sector
3-1    Characteristics of State Road Networks, 1988
3-2   Selected Info;nation on Project States
3-3   State Government Finances
3-4   State Roads Maintenance Cost Recovery
3-5    Establishment of a State Road Maintenance Fund: Outline of a Proposal
4-1    Design Standards
4-2    Manpower Development
4-3    Technology Transfer Centers
4-4   Project Cost Tables
4-5    Draft Terms of Reference for Project Oversight
4-6    Draft Terms of Reference for State Roads Management Consultancy
4-7    Draft Terms of Reference for Supervision of Road Work Contracts
4-8    Project Implementation Schedule, Monitorable Targets, Implementation Program and
Supervision Plan
4-9    Disbursement Schedule & Disbursement Chart
4-10   Environmental Assessment Study
5-1    Economic Analysis
6-1    Documents Available in the Project File
MaDs
IBRD Nos. 23529, 23530 and 23531



. j -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN)
Beneficiaries:   Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH),
State Ministries of Works and Transport (SMOWTs) in
the states of Jigawa and Kano
Implementing
Agencies:      State Ministries of Works and Transport
Credit Amount: SDR 49.8 million (US$68.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IDA, with 35 years' maturity
Onlendine
Terms:         From FGN to the States for twenty years, including 5 years of grace at the
IBRD variable interest rate. The States would bear the foreign exchange
risk. Approximately US$2.0 million would be retained by the Goverment
to finance technical assistance to FMWH.
Description:    The main objective of the project is to support a sustainable improvement
program for high priority roads by: (a) creating a capacity for planning and
management of the state roads system, including strengthening of the
SMOWTs; and (b) developing a road maintenance, upgrading and
rehabilitation program, and increasing the use of private contractors.
The project would be a first phase of a national state roads program that
could eventually cover most Nigerian states. It would be executed in two
states, Jigawa and Kano, and would include:
(a)    Road maintenance, rehabilitation and strengthening: an economically
justified program to reduce the backlog of rehabilitation and
strengthening works on priority state roads;
(b)    Road upgergding: paving of selected high priority, high volume
unsurfaced roads to appropriate design standards;
(c)    Vehicles and equipment: purchase of vehicles and equipment to
strengthen institutional capacity to design and supervise the project
work; and



- ii -
(d)    l       l  devel    : establishment of appropriate institutional
arangements within the SMOWTs for planning, design,
construction and maintenapce, incluling the replacing of force
account operations by private contracting for carrying out road
maintenance and rehabilitation.
Proiet Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign
&&nqted Projects Costs:               Cost       Cost        1Qt
Civil Works                          16.4       49.1        65.5
Technical Assistance & TrWning        2.1        6.4         8.5
Equipment and Vehicles               J2                     JQ
Base Cost (April 1992)               18.7       56.1        74.8
Physical Contingencies                1.9        5.6         7.5
Price Contingencies                   36 3
Total                                        6. L         1.8
Financing Plan:                       Loa       Foreign       W
IDA                                3.0       65.0        68.0
State Governments
Jigawa                             9.0         1.5       10.5
Kano                              11.1        1.5        12.6
Federa Goverment (FMWH)               O         _7 00L7
Total Financing                   am         68 0        91
E-stimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
EP r                                            S    199 4        1225 MA  I1I
Anmual               6.5     14.3      15.3     16.4    12.6       2.9
Cumulative           6.5    20.8       36.1    52.5    65.1       68.0
Benefits and Risls: Quantifiable benefits consist of savings in vehicle operating costs for
normal traffic, plus any geneeated or diverted traffic where applicable,
which will result from improved links between the federal inter-urban
highways and terdary rural road systems. Additional benefits comprise
savings In maitnance costs resulting from the improved condition of
roads. Training in contract management will help ensure that works
carried out by private contractors will be adequately supervised. The
benefits of the Institutional development components, including
establishment of road mintenance extension services, are potentialy high
though u fiale.



- iii -
Ihere are three major risks associated with the project. Tbe first
concerns the ability of new and untried state executing 3gencies to
effectively manage both a large increase in maintenance operations an;a
the switch to contract works. The second risk concerns state level
capacity to maintain an acceptable contracting process. The third risk
involves the provision of counterpart funds which have historically been a
major problem in project implementation in all sectors. The first two
risks will be addressed through the close and continual interactions of the
state agencies, the co3nsultants, and the Bank. The third risk will be
addressed by having counterpart funds deducted at the source, and the
commitment of the participating states to do so will be a condition of
negotiations. A condition of credit effectiveness is that each of the
participating states will have opened a Project Arcount.
Rate of .Bg :    The economic rates of rftl!ri ior civil works under the project range fiom
12% to over 100%, wit'i most works exceeding 30%. The ERR for the
combined investment in the two states is 37%.
mau:             IBRID Nos. 23529, 23530 and 23531.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
I. IN1TRODUCTwION
1.1   Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa with a population of 'oout 89 million
1/, which is expected to double during the next 40 years. It is located between latitudes
4°N and 13°N and has an area of approximately 925,000 km2. The climate varies from
semi-arid in the north, with about 500 mm of rainfall per year, to wet and humid in the south
with over 2,000 mm. There is a well defined wet season in the summer, extending for as
i.tle as four months in the north to as long as seven months in the south. In the north, the
terrain is flat with sparse natural vegetation; across the center, there are hills and granite
outcrops with savannah type vegetation, while in the south the terrain is generally flat with
tropical fores: vegetation.
1.2 Despite its; oil wealth, Nigeria is among the 15 poorest countries in the world with
annual per capita income at around US$250. Social indicators are slightly below the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) launched in mid-
1986 supported a number of reforms in economic and human resource development. The
SAP recognized that removing transport bottlenecks and improving transport efficiency were
crucial to obtaining an adequate supply response in the economy. It also endorsed a policy of
making better use of assets in the sector through adoption of a "maintenarce culture" as a
means to achieve the highest overall return.
1.3  Over the last 15 years there has been a remarkable expansion and improvement of the
roads system in Nigeria, but inadequate maintenance now threatens the road network, raising
the possibility of the loss of past investments and serious repercussions for the economic well-
being of the country. Road maintenance capability is weak at all levels of Government, and
this problem is compounded by weak organizational structures for managing the road system.
1.4  The Bank is supporting a shift in emphasis to maintenance from new construction of
Wederal highways under the Highway Sector Loan (HSL, 2963-UNI, US$250 million,
September 15, 1989). in line with this policy shift towards rehabilitation and maintenance,
the Government of Nigeria has requested the Bank's assistance to improve the road networks
in selected states. The proposed project, which would be the Bank's first operation for state
roads, is consistent with the Bank's development strategy (para 3.13) and key policy reforms
recommended under the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Initiative (Annex 1-1). The
Project would provide the opportunity to pursue at the state level the types of improvements
being introduced at the federal level to strengthen the management of road administrations.
The needs of the rural roads which are administered by Local Government Councils (LGCs)
are being addressed through the Bank-assisted Agricultural Development Projects. More
recently, the Directorate of Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure in the Executive Office of
the President has also become involved.
1.5 Originally six states, Anambra, Kaduna, Kano, Lagos, Niger and Oyo were selected by
the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) for inclusion m the proposed Multistate Roads
I/Preliminary 1991 census result.



- 2 -
Project (MSRP), based on their capacity to meet the local costs of road programs and their
willingness to reorient roads expenditure from expansion to maintenance, upgrading, and
strengthening. The number of states was later reduced to three, viz., Kano, Lagos, and Oyo.
With the creation of nine new states on August 27, 1991, which brought the number of states
in the Federation to 30, Kano and Oyo were subdivided into Kano/Jigawa and Oyo/Osun,
respectively. In order to keep this first MSRP to a manageable size, it was decided to limit it
to three states, ligawa, Kano and Lagos. In April 1992 it was decided to limit the project to
Jigawa and Kano states. Lagos, Osun and Oyo states could be included in future projects.
Such an approach would minimize the complexity of individual projects, while enabling,
through a series of projects, a broad impact on state road programs over time.
1.6  The project was prepared with financing from a Japanese Grant of Yen 166 million
(about US$1.3 million). The Agreement was signee on April 30, 1991 between the Federal
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (FMFED) and the Bank as administrator.
The original closing date was September 30, 1991, but at the request of the Government, it
was extended to June 30, 1992. This will allow completion of preparatory work for all five
states included in the initial Agreement.
HI. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Overview of the Sector
2.1  The federal government owns and operates parastatals in all transport modes except
roads. These range from large enterprises such as the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC),
the Nigerian Airports Authority (NAA), and the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) with federal
government investments in excess of N1.2 billion, N1.3 billion and NO.8 billion respectively
(as of end 1988), to smaller enterprises such as the Central Water Transportation Authority.
With the exception of NAA which no longer receives operating subsidies, all transport
enterprises depend on federal government subventions for most of their operating expenses
and for their entire capital investments. Inadequate levels of capital and recurrent expenditure
over several decades have left these enterprises with substantial deferred maintenance
requirements and technologically obsolescent capital stock. The federal government has
clearly indicated its intention to adopt policy reforms in parastatals to reduce operating losses
and to begin to operate them on a commercial basis, and, in some cases, to fully privatize or
liquidate them. Efficiency measures to be adopted by NRC (i.e. concentrating on more
profitable long haul bulk traffic) will place growing demands on the road system to serve
smaller centers with service that railways are unable or reluctant to offer. The result is that
demand for road services will continue to grow in Nigeria as the economy expands.
B. Transport Planning and Coordination
2.2 The Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications (FMTC) and the Federal
Ministry of Aviation (FMA) are responsible for all federal transport matters except the federal
highway system which is under the Federal Highways Department (FHD) in the Federal
Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH). The responsibilities of FMTC and FMA include,
with their respective sectors, the formulation of transport policy, supervision of the federal
transport parastatals, and the provision of infrastructure and services not provided by either



- 3 -
FMWH or the parastatals themselves. Through its National Transport Coordinatibn
Commission (NTCC), FMTC is responsible for p!anning and coordinating investments and
operations in all transport modes. So far, NTCC, whose membership includes the FMWH,
FMTC, FMA and FMFED, has had little influence on the road subsector. FMTC has not
been effective on matters within its jurisdiction, such as restructuring of parastatals and
economic assessment of its own investment programs. This is partly because of a lack of
government interest in these issues in the past, and partly because of inadequate professional
staff to develop annual and five-year plans based on engineer;  ind economic criteria. With
tighter constraints on government spending, there is now in   :terest at both the FMTC and
FMFED in more economic investment. This objective is being supported under an ongoing
Transport Parastatals Project (TPP) (para. 2.3).
C. Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Roads Sector and Lessons Learned
2.3  The Bank/IDA's past involvement in Nigeria's transport sector has totalled US$584.9
million and has been predor inantly in highways (77%). Details of past lending to the
highway sector are described in Annex 2-1. Assistance to railways was provided in 1958
(Loan 193-UNI, US$28 million) and in 1970 as part of a Transport Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 694-UNI, US$25 million). There were two port projects (Loan 326-UNI, US$13.5
million, 1963 and Loan 922-UNI, US$55 million, 1978). Finally, the ongoing Transport
Parastatals Project (TPP) approved in June 1986 (Loan 2734-UNI, US$20.9 million) supports
the Government's effort to improve the policy environment and the performance of
parastatals, especially NRC and NPA.
2.4  Two types of problems predominated in past lending operations in the transport sector,
and measures have been taken in the design of the proposed MSRP to avoid their recurrence.
The first problem was the lack of success of institutional development components compared
to the relative success of physical investment. The MSRP would build up the State Ministries
of Works and Transport (SMOWTs) by first of all, relieving them from the management of
force account operations and strengthening their capacity to plan, design and supervise the
works to be carried out by contract (para. 4.5). By focussing on priority areas, this approach
would maximize the use of the limited manpower available in the SMOWTs at the technical
and managerial levels. Most road maintenance works would be transferred to private
contractors which could operate more efficiently with less bureaucratic constraints (para. 4.2).
The project would also extend initiatives under the HSL to establish at the state level a
network of technolog t.ansfer centers to meet the technological needs of the SMOWTs and
the construction industry (para. 4.1). Past road projects suffered substantial delays in
agreeing on bidding documents and other procurement related matters due partly to a lack of
familiarity with Bank requirements stemming from the lack of staff continuity, poor training
and communication. During the preparation of the proposed project, specia' efforts have been
taken to familiarize staff at the FMWH and the SMOWTs with Bank requirements for
standard bidding documents, which the FMWH has now adapted for its own use (para. 4.16).



- 4 -
111. THE ROAD SUB-SECTOR
A. The Rad Network
3.1  The total road network in Nigeria Is about 167,800 km, including the federal system
which amounts to 28,600 km (see Table 1 below). The state roads system is approximately
30,500 km (34% bituminous surfaced), while the LGC road system comprises about 108,700
km (abo4t 1.0% bit"'minous surfaced). The federal network accounts for about 17% of the
total network and ( % of bituminous surfaced roads, while the state roads network comprises
18% of the total network and 30% of bituminous surfaced roads. The density of the total
road network at 1.89 km/1000 population is above the average of 1.17 km/1000 population
for SSA. The paved road network represents a density of about 0.38 km/1000 population,
which is also above the average for SSA (0.29 km/1000 population).
Table 1: Roads Network
(Lengths in nm)
IMpe of Roads        Paved       Unpaved                 Percentage
I~~~~~~~Fa                     V .& ,d .Di _
Federal Highways        23,000        5,600     28,600           17
State Highways          10,430       20,07G     30,500           18
Rural Roads                870      107,830    108,700           65
Total Nigeria        34,300      133,500    167,800          100
Total SSA           111,037      213,092    324,129    _
3.2  Since 1975, some 10,000 km of federal roads have been constructed, 3,000 km
rehabilitated, and 4,000 km strengthened. Despite this substantial program, the federal
network is still underdeveloped, with 20% unpaved and in poor condition. Some sections are
only open to traffic in the dry season, while a few exist only as lines on the map. Many
roads were constructed with relatively weak pavements with the intention of strengthening
them with asphalt-concrete overlays when needed. However, this logical stage-construction
approach proved difficult to put into effect in recent years, mainly owing to the lack of
adequate budgetary resources. As a result, strengthening works have not been carried out on
time. In addition, FHD's practice to design pavements for the 10-ton legal maximum axle
load then in effect 2/, instead of the considerably heavier loads actually experienced,
combined with poor supervision, led to instances of substandard construction. For all the
above reasons, coupled with unexpectedly high traffic growth of about 30% a year in the late
1970s, the network deteriorated rapidly. The latest field survey (1988) showed that of the
paved federal road network, 36% was in very good condition, 29% good, 20% fair, and 15%
in poor or very poor condition. Strengthening and rehabilitating the federal network is thus
the principal focus of the FHD Program currently being supported by the HSL.
ZI The FGN recently decided to raise the axle load standard in Nigeria from 10 to 11.5
ton/axle, to more closely match the Economic Community of West Africa States
(ECOWAS) standard of its neighbors.



-  -
3.3 To obtain a balanced development of federal, state and local roads, a Trunk Road
Study (IRS) was carried out under the Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1883-UNI of August
1980). The study considered all roads carrying traffic volumes of more than 300 vehicles per
day, irrespective of classification. The study concluded that priority should be given to an
appropriate and sustainable state roads maintenance and improvement program. Under the
proposed MSRP, an organization and action plan to implement state road improvements in
two states has been prepared. The project will be a first phase of a National States Road
Program (NSRP) which wi'I eventually cover most of the 30 states of the Federation. This
would provide the basis for future Bank assistance to the state roads network.
B. R¢oad Safet
3.4  Road accidents impose a heavy toll in terms of fatalities, injuries and property damage.
Available road accident statistics for 1980-1988 indicate that Nigeria has an exceptionally high
road accident fatality rate (about 33 fatalities per 100 million veh-km), a rate that is about 16
times higher than in the U.K. and U.S.A. The total number of road accidents declined from
a peak of 40,900 in 1976 to 31,600 in 1980; data beyond 1982 suggest a similar decrease in
accidents, injuries and fatalities, possibly due to a reduction in the vehicle fleet and
improvements in road geometry and condition. However, fatality rates (deaths per 10,000
vehicles) have tended to rise which suggests a worsening of road safety. In terms of system
performance, road safety deserves priority attention, as the annual economic loss to the
country due to road accidents was conservatively estimated at N2.0 billion in 1989. Actions
proposed under NSRP, including emphasis on road rehabilitation and maintenance and road
safety improvements, would contribute to reducing accident costs on state roads. The
consultants assisting in the design of the civil works are being required to give special
attention to enhancing road safety.
C. Roads Administration
3.5  The FHD is responsible for managing the federal trunk road network; the SMOWTs
administer the state road systems while the LGCs have responsibility for local roads. As
mala-;aM-i uy the constitution, the three tiers of goverMment have independent planning,
financing and budgeting responsibilities for the roads under their jurisdictions. A persistent
problem has been the shortage of professional and technical staff at all levels of roads
administration. As a result, planning, project and contract supervision, and the execution of
maintenance have been weak, resulting in instances of poor quality of construction and
inadequate maintenance. Measures are being taken via the HSL (para 2.4) and the proposed
MSRP to define an organization and action plan to improve the administration, rehabilitation
and maintenance of state roads. The findings will be implemented under the MSRP.
3.6 Road planning is carried out at three levels. FMFED assesses federal highway needs in
relation to other sectors with respect to resour. allocation while FHD initiates programs for
federal roads based on need, and establishes construction and maintenance priorities. The
SMOWTs are responsible for performing similar tasks for state roads. A third level of
planning, although not readily recognizable, exists at the local government level where some
decisions concerning LGC roads are made. Coordination among the federal, state and local
gover nment agencies has not been very effective due in part to the lack of adequate manpower
at middle and senior technical and managerial levels. An additional problem at the state level
is the frequent turmover of key personnel which often constrains management continuity. The



-6-
MSRP would address this problem by providing technical assistance and trining to strengthen
the coordinating role of FMWH and the planning and managerial capability of SMOWTs.
Efforts would also be made to reduce staff rotation in key positions. By establishing
technology transfer centers at the state level, MSRP would not only improve internal linkages,
but it would allova access to training for SMOWT and LGC technical staff. Such centers are
provided for in the Project (para 4.1).
D. State Roads
3.7 The state road networks consist of two classes of roads: the former Federal Trnlk
Roads B (secondary roads), which provide important links to the federal trunk roads and have
been turned over to the states; and tertiary roads transferred from the LGCs and incorporated
in the state road systems. The estimated 30,500 km of state roads range from engineered
two-lane asphalt-surfaced roads to dry-season earth tracks. About one-thWrd of the state roads
is bituminous-surfaced as shown in Table 1. The condition of the state roads varies
considerably, much depending on the financial resources allocated to roads and, more
importantiy, the availability of trained and experienced staff within the SMOWTs. States with
well established institutions for implementing road projects have made considerable progress
in upgrading and improving their road systems during the last decade, while progress in other
states has been inadequate.
3.8  The characteristics of the state road networks are summarized in Annex 3-1. There is
a degree of correlation between size of state road systems and the area and population of the
state. Bendel/Delta, for example, has the largest state road network with 3,300 km, while
Lagos has the smallest network with 370 km. The extent of paved roads (bituminous-
surfaced) ranges from 1,490 km in Bendel/Delta to 210 km in Kwara/Kogi. State road
networks with a large proportion of bituminous-surfaced roads are in: Lagos (96%), Rivers
(91%), Kano/Jigawa (72%), Imo/Abia (64%), Kaduna/Katsina (58%), Ondo (52%), and
Bendel/Delta (45%). In terms of coverage and quality, the state road systems in
Anambra/Enugu, Benue, Gongola/Taraba, Kwara/Kogi, Niger, and Plateau appear to be the
least developed.
3.9 Aggregate traffic on the state roads system was estimated by the TRS at 15 million
veh-km per day or about 25% of the traffic flow on the almost equally sized federal system.
The corresponding road user costs on the state system are about US$3.8 million per day or
US$1.4 billion per annum. The replacement cost of the state road system is estimated at
about US$2.0 billion, excluding major bridges and about 13,000 km of tracks.
3.10 The condition of the state road system is determined by two main considerations: the
extent of road rehabilitation, upgrading, and new construction during the last 10-15 years, and
the adequacy of maintennce. State road systems in the best condition (ess than 20% in poor
condition) are found in Kaduna/Ksina, Lagos, BornoYobi, and Rivers, mostly because of
the large investments made by these states in bituminous-surfaced roads during the last 10
years. As a result, these states now face a heavier maintenance burden and require a major
reorientation of their road expenditure priorities to preserve their recent road investments. Ihe
worst road condidons (more than 50% in poor condition) are to be found in Anambra/Enugu,
Bauchi, Kwara/Kogi, Oyo/Osun, and Ondo due to weak state institutions for road
development and maintenance and to financial constraints. Conditions in other states fall



-7 -
somewhere between these limits but, in all cases, the institutions for road management at the
state level require considerable strengthening, particularly in road planning and maintenance.
E. Development of State Roads
3.11 Parts of the state road system are still in the process of definition; there are no accurate
inventories of state roads and the recent TRS suggests that there is a considerable overlap
between state and LGC road systems. Despite their vital importance for intra-state commerce
and trade (as the main connectors between the seats of local governments and as the backbone
of the secondary collector-distributor road systems), the majority of the state road networks is
still at an early stage of development. The Five-Year Development Plan (1986-1990) aimed
at a complete overhaul of the state road system, including the improvement to paved standard
of 20,000 km out of the total network. Inadequate priority was, however, assigned to road
projects in the state road development plans. Furthermore, plans bore little relationship to the
availability of financial resources or the ability of SMOWTs to absorb additional resources.
With the exception of a few states, the state roads aspects of the Development Plan was not
carried out.
3.12 According to the Road Sector Strategy Paper (Report No. 7844-UNI, of January 10,
1991) a road investment program for state roads is economically justified for some 11,000
km. The scope for economically-justified resealing, rehabilitation, strengthening, and
upgrading works on the state road networks is summarized below:
Table 2: Sate Roads Rehabilitation Pgrom
Ip of Lrk                                   Len  in km
Resealing                                      3,500
Widening and Surfacing                         1,200
Asphalt Concrete Overlays (including widening)  1,100
Rehabilitation                                 2,600
Upgrading to Paved Standard                    2,900
Total                                      11,300
F. Develgpment Strategy
3.13 Future development of the state road networks will depend on the ability of the states
to mobilize financial resources for road development and maintenance (para 3.18) and their
capacity to plan and utilize these resources in a cost-effective manner. The strategy for future
state road development programs as agreed between the Government and the Bank would
include:
(a)  creation of appropriate organizational and institutional arrangements within the
SMOWTs for planning and management of the state road system;
(b)  development of an institutional capacity for state road maintence, which will
evenally reach the LGCs;



- 8 -
(c)  mobilization of internal state resources for the NSRP through road user charges,
land development fees, and other appropriate revenue generation measures;
(d)  development of a phased program of road improvements in order to strike a proper
balance between expansion of road infrastructure and preservation of existing assets;
(e)  a strong emphasis on manpower development and contract management to strengtien
SMOWT capacity to oversee state road programs carried out by private contractors;
and
(f)  the implementation of an extension program for private road contractors to
strengthen their ability to carry out road maintenance and rehabilitation operations.
Selected information for the two states chosen for inclusion in the first MSRP are shown in
Annex 3-2.
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.14 The project would be part of an ongoing effort to upgrade Nigeria's roads system, to
make more effective use of existing infrastructure, and to identify cost recovery mechanisms
for roads. As works and transportation normally account for a significant percentage of
public expenditure at the state and local levels, a Bank-financed state roads project could be
an effective vehicle for institutional and fiscal reform. The Bank has been a catalyst in
Nigeria at the federal level in achieving more economic road investment programs, stressing
rehabilitation and maintenance over new investment, and emphasizing institutional
development and cost recovery. The Bank is now in a strong position to extend these benefits
to the state level. The Bank has also intensified its dialogue with Government on the need to
shift road maintenance activities from force account operations to greater use of contractors
(para 4.2). The project provides a good vehicle to strengthen the SMOWTs in contract
supervision while encouraging greater involvement of the private road contracting industry.
The project also fits well into the country strategy for environmental institution building (see
paras 4.24 - 4.27).
H. Financing the State Roads Program
3.15 A summary of the 1990 actual and 1991 budgeted revenue, receipts and expenditures
for the states of Kano and Jigawa is presented in Annex 3-3. Receipts and expenditures for
Kano/Jigawa were budgeted at N1.8 billion for 1991. The state relied heavily on statutory
revenue from the Federation Account amounting to N1.2 billion, or 65% of total receipts;
capital receipts total N373 million or 21% of total receipts; internally generated revenues of
N257 million or 14% of total receipts constitute the balance of the 1991 state budget.
3.16 Road works are financed from general government revenues; there is no ear-marking of
user charge revenues for road works in Nigeria. Generally, construction, rehabilitation, and
pavement strengthening are financed from the states' capital budget, and light periodic and
routine maintenance operations from their recurrent budget. The budget for Kano/Jigawa
shows capital expenditures on road infrastructure at N 10 million and N 110 million, or 1%
and 7% of their respective total budgeted expenditure for 1990. Total expenditure on roads in



-9-
1991 was budgeted to reach N123 million for Kano/Jigawa. The road work planned for
Kano/Jigawa is predominantly rehabilitation and reconstruction.
3.17 The cost of adequately providing recurrent (routine) maintenance of state roads would
range from about N5,800 per km for the lower volume unpaved roads (ADT < 300 vpd) to
about N 15,800 per km for the higher volume (ADT > 1500 vpd) asphalt concrete roads.
When the annualized costs for periodic maintenance are also added, total maintenance costs
(excluding rehabilitation and construction) range from N 14,800 to N51,000 per km. Anne&
3A shows a summary of the maintenance costs and total maintenance costs in relation to the
total transport related revenue generated in Kano/Jigawa states.
3.18 The transport related revenues (e.g., vehicle registration and license, drivers license)
amount to only 13% of the total maintenance costs, or 38% of recurrent maintenance costs on
state roads in Kano/Jigawa.
3.19 Amex 34 shows typical rates of road user charges and fees currently levied by the
states in Nigeria. Average yearly amounts collected by the states vary from a maximum of
N26 million for Lagos to a low of about N 1.0 million for Benue. The main source of
revenue is the motor vehicle license fees which represent about 65% of all revenue, followed
by driver's license fees amounting to about 15%. The total revenue collected by all states in
Nigeria amounted to N82.9 million in 1988 and N84.8 million in 1990.
3.20 Table 3 shows a summary of recurrent and total maintenance expenditure required to
keep the entire state road network in the participating states and Nigeria in good condition.
Recurrent maintenance costs amount to N213 million while total maintenance costs, including
periodic maintenance but excluding rehabilitation and construction costs, amount to N537
million. In comparison, the total revenue collected at the state level in 1990 (N84.8 million)
represents only 40% of the recurrent maintenance requirement, and only 16% of the total
maintenance requirement. To recover at least the recurrent maintenance costs at the state
level, the states would have to increase on average the road user charges and fees by a factor
of 2.5. As the rates have not changed significantly in most states since 1986, and in view of
the high inflation rate since then, such an increase should be possible.
Table 3: State Road Maintenance Costs and Revenues in 1990
|    State Roads  Recurrent Maintenance  Rec + Periodic Maintenance
l_________________       (N million)              (N million)
Kano/Jigaw-a
Annual Costs               13.1                    38.2
Revenue/Costs (%)          38%                      13%
All States
Annual Costs              213.2                    536.8
Revenue/Costs (%)          40%                      16%
1.21 In the long run, the full cost of recurrent and periodic maintenance needs to be
recovered from road users. This can be done more efficiently by raising a sales tax on fiuel to



- 10-
generate the bulk of the revenues necessary for highway maintenance needs. A proposal to
establish a mechanism to recover maintenance costs through fuel tax is outlined in Annex 3-5.
This issue is being pursued at the federal level through the Road User Charges and Axle Load
Study under the HSL, and through contacts with the Federal Resource Mobilization
Commission. The Study is expected to finish in June 1992, but given the lengthy process of
government legislation, the recommendations are not likely to be implemented before
September 1992 (see para 4.11).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1  The main objective of the proposed project is to support a sustainable improvement
program for high priority roads in the states of Jigawa and Kano by: (a) creating a capacity
for planning and management of the state roads system, including strengthening of the
SMOWTs; and (b) developing a road upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance program and
increasing the use of private contractors. In parallel with the roads rehabilitation program,
the project will support a comprehensive institutional development program that will
strengthen the capacity of SMOWT staff in the two states to plan and oversee works carried
out by private contractors through on-the-job and formal training, and the establishment of
Technology Transfer Centers (ITCs) with the involvement of local universities and training
centers at the state level. The Project will also contribute to improving the policy
environment in the roads sector, mainly through (a) increasing participation of the private
sector in carrying out infrastructure works, and (b) enhancing the management of the state
road network, including establishment of sound cost recovery mechanism and systematic
application of optimization procedures in selecting and designing road work.
B. Project Descrintok
4.2 The proposed project would support the following main components in the states of
Jigawa and Kano to be mainly executed by contract for:
(a)    Civil Works.
(i)    Road maintenance., rehabilitation and strengthening. An economically
justified program to reduce the backlog of rehabilitation and
strengthening works on about 830 km of priority state roads;
(ii)   Road.ugrading. Paving about 220 km of selected high priority,
heavily trafficked unsurfaced roads to appropriate design standards;
(b)    Vehicles and equipment. Procurement of vehicles and equipment as an aid for
better management of roads; and
(c)   Institutional development. Development of staff capabilities for planning,
design and supervision of construction and maintenance of state roads; staff
would be assisted to put this into practice by moving towards greater use of
contractors and away from force account operations.



- 11 -
Drinff negotiations, agreement was reached that all project works will be executed by
contract.
4.3   The quantity of civil road works to be carried out is given in Table 4 below:
Table 4: Civil Worka
Jiawa |Kano| Todal
............ k......n).
Road Maintenance,     350     480      830
Rehabilitation and
Strengthening
Road Upgrading        :00      120     220
Total                 450     600   1,050
The above work will be carried out in accordance with the design standards in Annex 4-1.
All of the work will be carried out on existing aligmnents, except for local improvements to
meet the design standards. Most of the roads to be improved are in flat to rolling terrain.
During neo ations agreement was reached on the list of priority roads to be included in the
project.
4.4   Vehicles. Equigment. Parts and SuDuies. Equipment for materials, laboratories, field
testing, traffic counting and weighing; vehicles for surveying, field inspections, design and
supervision of works will be provided for the two project states.
4.5   The institutional development component will support two major areas of activity
encompassing: (i) streamlining the organizationai structure and training of SMOWT staff to
deal more efficiently with contract management; and (ii) complementing the initiative under
the HSL in establishing ¶TCs at the state level which will disseminate technical and contract
management information to contractors and create channels of communication between the
SMOWTs and the road construction industry. Other existing training institutions would be
involved to the extent of their capacity to participate in the program. Afreement was reached
during negQtiations as to the details of the manpower development program as outlined in
Annexes 4-2 and 4-3. Submission of training plans to the Bank for its review and agreement
will be a condition of credit effectiveness.



- 12 -
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.6   The estimated total costs of the project amounts to US$91.8 million, including taxes,
and physical and price contingencies, with a foreign component of US$68.0 million equivalent
or 74% of total project cost. Import duties and taxes on the project are estimated at US$8.6
million equivalent. Costs were estimated at April 1992 prices, at an exchange rate of US$1
= N 18.00. Costs include physical contingencies tailored to each project component. Local
price contingencies were estimated at 20% in 1992, 15% in 1993, 12.5% in 1994 and 10%
per year thereafter. Foreign price contingencies were estimated at 2.8% in 1992, 3.9% in
1993 and 1994, and 3.8% thereafter. The estimated cost of the project is detailed in Annex
4-4 and is summarized in Table 5 below.
Table 5: Estimated Proiect Cost
(US$ million)
Components                Loal A/    Foreign    ITtal
Civil Works                               16.4       49.1      65.5
Technical Assistance & Training            2.1         6.4      8.5
Equipment & Vehicles                       0.2        0.6       0.8
Base Cost (Apr. 1992)                      18.7      56.1      74.8
Physical Contingencies                      1.9       5.6       7.5
Price Contingencies                        3.2         6.3      9.5
Total Project Cost                      23.8       68.0      91.8 :
Nhe Amounts rounded.
W Includes US$8.6 million in taxes and duties.
For all the civil works components, construction cost estimates are based on quantities from
feasibility studiL carried out by consultants as part of project preparation. During
negotiations, the cost estimates were confirmed against the latest available design and cost
data.
4.7    The financing plan for the project is summarized in Table 6 below. It requires the
Federal and State Governments to finance local costs amounting to approximately US$20.8
million and foreign costs of about US$3.0 million spread over the period of implementation.
The state governments would be required to provide counterpart funding in equal monthly
installments. In addition, the state governments will be responsible for repayment to the
Federal government of the loan and the associated foreign exchange risk. To help ensure that
limited resources would go to priority areas, agreement was reached during negotiations that
no expenditures on roads outside the project will be undertaken by the states in excess of
US$5 million equivalent without consultation with the Bank.



- 13 -
Table 6: Priect Finanin
(US$ million)
| Local | Foreign  |Td
Funds Required
FMWH                            0.7         2.0        2.7
Jigawa SMOWT                    10.4       30.0       40.4
Kano SMOWT                      127        36        48.7
Total Requirements               23.8        68.0       91.8
Sources of Funds
Jigawa SMOWT                    9.0         1.5       10.5
Kano SMlOWT                     11.1        1.5       12.6
IDA                             3.0        65.0      68.0
FMWH                            07                    Q0.7
Total Sources                  23.8        68.0      91.8
4.8    The proposed credit of US$68 million would be passed on to the participating states at
standard IBRD variable interest rate. At negotiations. agreement was reached that onlending
of the credit will be at IBRD variable interest rate for 2C years, including five years of grace,
and that the states will bear the foreign exchange risk. A subsidiary loan agreement would be
required between the FGN and each state. A condition of credit effectiveness would be the
signing of a subsidiary agreement with at least one state. A condition of disbursement in any
one of the project states would be the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the state
and FGN, for the state which had not signed such an agreement by the time of credit
effectiveness.
4.9   The participating states agreed during appraisal that they would be willing to have a
percentage of their funds in the Federation Account deducted at source to provide counterpart
funds for financing the project works. At negotiations, each state confirmed that steps had
been taken to have its share of the project's finances deducted from its Federation Account
and deposited into a Project Account. The counterpart contribution of the project states are
estimated at US$10.5 million equivalent for Jigawa State and US$12.6 million equivalent for
Idno State. The corresponding monthly deposits would amount to less than 4% of the 1991
allocation from the Federation Account to each participating state. At negotiations, FGN
confirmed that this mechanism is in place.
D. Road User Charges and Cost Recovery
4.10   Some states, especially Lagos, are already covering the cost of recurrent maintenance.
On average, states would have to increase road user charges by about 2.5 times to achieve
this goal. In the long run, some part of revenues on fuel levied at the federal level or a state
sales tax on fuel would be necessary to meet the costs of periodic as well as routine
maintenance, but legal and constitutional constraints would prohibit this in the short term.
However, it should be possible for states to recover more of the costs of recurrent
maintenance by increasing the road user charges already under their jurisdiction (para 3.20).



- 14 -
Although present coverage of costs by user fees varies, states have similar license and fee
levels. This approximate parity should be maintained to avoid tax leakage among states.
Prior to negotiations, the participating states prepared for Bank comment a plan of action to
recover at least road maintenance recurrent costs through road user charges under state
jurisdiction. A condition of effectiveness will be the implementation in at least one state of
the agreed action plan for recovering the costs of recurrent maintenance. Conditions of
disbursement in any one of the project states will include: (a) the implementation of the
agreed action plan for recovering the costs of recurrent maintenance at the state level, for the
state which had not implemented such a plan by the time of credit effectiveness; and (b)
evidence of allocation of an agreed level of financing of maintenance operations in the 1993
state budget (future allocations and evidence of actually spending the funds would be
monitored annually) (para 4.29).
4.11   The Bank is engaged in a parallel dialogue with the Federal Government on possible
improvements at the federal level in pricing and cost recovery in the roads sector. FMWH,
with the help of international consultants, is conducting a road user charges and axle load
study as agreed under the Highway Sector Loan. The main objective of the study is to
determine the extent to which the current road related tax and toll structure is adequate to
cover the costs of providing and maintaining road transport facilities and services, and to
identify measures to cover any shortfall. It has been a long-standing Government policy to
provide heavily subsidized petroleum products in Nigeria. The pump price of gasoline is
presently 70 kobo/liter (or US$ 0.04/liter) and of diesel 55 kobo/liter (or USS 0.03/liter).
These sale prices are among the lowest in the world. Selling prices in neighboring countries
to Nigeria are from 8 to 20 times greater, indicating that price increases are not only possible
but econemically justified. Preliminary analysis of existing data (Amex3-S) shows that a
fuel surcharge of 12 kobo/liter (about 20% of the present sales price) would generate
additional revenue of N600 million, sufficient to cover the annual cost of routine maintenance
of the federal and state road networks. It would appear to be feasible to move beyond this
target and begin to recover a significant part of periodic maintenance cost. A surcharge of 52
kobo/liter (about 84% of the present sales price) would cover the full cost of periodic and
routine maintenance of the federal and stmte road networks. The study will examine these
potential surcharges in comparison with the existing levels of taxation and other sources of
transport related revenues, such as vehicle import duties, to establish the appropriate levels
for cost recovery and recommend appropriate mechanisms for channelling the funds to road
maintenance (e.g. Road Fund). The study is scheduled to be completed by end-June 1992 and
there is agreement under the Highway Sector Loan that a plan of action to recover at least
recurrent costs from road users will be presented to the Bank by July 1992. The consultants
are also exploring mechanisms for channeling funds to the states to further enhance their
ability to finance routine and periodic maintenance to the state road systems. These
recommendations will be considered to complement the revenue enhancements discussed in
para 4.10.
E. JIementation
4.12 The SMOWTs of Jigawa and Kano would implement the project with oversight
provided by the FMWH. The proposed MSRP will be the FMWH's first experience
overseeing a Bank-financed project implemented at the state level. Each participating state
would manage its program through its Director of Highways or Civil Engineering. Both the
federal and state agencies would be assisted by consultants acceptable to the Bank. Draft



- 15 -
terms of reference for consultancies for Project oversight at FMWH, and strengthen the state
organizations are found in Annexes 4-5 to 4-7. During negotiations agreement was reached
that suitable consultants would be appointed by the FMWH and the individual states on terms
and conditions agreeable to the Bank. Appointment of consultants in the two states will be a
condition of effectiveness. The project implementation schedule, monitorable targets and
implementation program are indicated in Annex 4-8.
4.13 Within a month of project effectiveness, a Project Launch Workshop (PLW) will be
held. The PLW, a structured project start-up activity, will bring together the key staff
members of the SMOWTs and the FMWH to review the project's objectives and procedures
and to discuss in detail the sequence of implementation activities. The timing of the PLW
would allow any practical difficulties which might surface at that time to be addressed prior to
project effectiveness. The FMWH and the SMOWTs have been fully involved in preparing
the proposed project which augurs well for implementation. A mid-term project review
involving IDA and relevant government agencies would be held not later than December
1995. The objective of the review would be to assess: (i) overall progress in project
implemenaion including status of road user charges and cost recovery, use of private
contractors, and training; (ii) performance of the FMWH in its coordinating capacity; (iii)
performarce of the SMOWTs as executing agencies; (iv) assessment of environmental impact
(para 4.26), and (v) the need for redesign and/or restructuring of project components. In
addition to the mid-term project review, annual reviews would be held in the last quarter of
each implementation year, to assess progress during the past year and review the work
program and budgetary allocations for the following year. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on the scope and timing of the mid-term and annual reviews.
F. Procurement
4.14  The table below summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.



- 16 -
Table 7: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element            ICB     LCB    Other    Cost
1. Civil Works                      68.0    11.6      1.0       80.6
(53.0)   (4.0)   (0.0)     (57.0)
2. Goods
Equipment a/                                        0.9        0.9
& Vehicles                                      (0.7)      (0.7)
3. Consultancies                                     10.3       10.3
Technical Assistance                              (10.3)      (10.3)
& Training k/    ______ _
Total                            68.0    11.6    12.2        91.8
ded_________________________    (53.0)  (4.0)  (11.0)  (68.0)
ote: Amounts rounded
No     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
. /    Proprietary itvms, consumable and office equipment.
bi    Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D.C.
1981).
4.15   Most of the Bank/IDA financed road contracts would be procured by International
Competitive Bidding (ICB); to the extent appropriate, contracts would be advertised on a
slice-and-package basis to provide the opportunity for small and medium domestic contractors
to participate, but no contract would be sliced merely to accommodate small domestic
contractors. After prequalification, potential bidders would be classified to bid for one or
more slices. The works which are dispersed geographically in remote locations and difficult
to package for ICB would, however, be procured by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) using
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Although many of these locations have already been
identified, during implementation the Bank would review in detail the availability of size,
scope and location of all individual contracts proposed for LCB and would also require
sufficient supporting information to assure itself dhat such works can be executed at prices
below international price levels. For bid evaluation in ICB civil works procurement, Nigerian
contractors will be allowed a preferential margin of 7 1/2% which will be added to bids
received from foreign contractors for evaluation and comparison of bids. Vehicles and
equipment estimated to cost $1.0 million are required at various stages by each state. In view
of this, it if felt that flexibility in implementation is essential. Prudent shopping and use of
UN Agency, International Agency Procurement Service Unit, would be appropriate depending
on the exigencies of the situation, consistent with Article 3.7 of the Guidelines. Consultant
selection would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. It is expected that a
major part of the consultants' services would be carried out by international firms and local



- 17 -
firms which have the necessary technical competence. It is estimated that approximately 300
man-months of consulting time would be required.
4.16   The borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have recently been reviewed
by Bank staff in the context of the HSL. The standard bidding documents adopted by FMWH
in conformity with Bank requirements (para 2.4) would be acceptable for all methods of
procurement proposed under the project. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
use of the adopted standard bidding documents based on the Bank's sample standard bidding
documents.
4.17   During project supervision, Bank-financed works contracts above a threshold of
US$500,000 would be subject to Bank's prior review procedures. The review process would
cover about 80% of the total works contract value procured by ICB and LCB (approximately
60% ICB; 40% LCB). Goods contracts or packages above US$100,000 would also be subject
to prior review, covering about 80% of the total value of Bank-financed goods. Bank
supervision missions will periodically review proculement arrangements for smaller contracts.
4.18   Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    prompt reporting of contract award information by the two SMOWTs to the
FHD/FMWH which would furnish the information to the Bank; and
(b)   comprehensive quarterly reports (para 4.23) to the Bank by the FHD/FMWH
based on information submitted by the SMOWTs (assisted by consultants),
indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total
project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies; and (ii) revised schedule of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
contracts.
G. Disbursements
4.19   Disbursements are expected to be completed in five years, assuming some
improvement over the historic disbursement profile for projects in Nigeria, given the relative
simplicity and the advanced preparation of the proposed project. The estimated disbursement
schedule and chart are given in Annex 4-9. The table below gives the categories and amounts
to be financed out of the IDA credit, and the percentage to be financed in each category. The
project has been designed for implementation over a 5-year period. While this is a shorter
period than the historic disbursement profile for projects in Nigeria, several measures have
been taken to help speed-up disbursements. Engineering design is expected to be completed
on time, and appointment of consultants for project management would be a condition of
effectiveness as noted in para 4.12. The scale of the project is relatively small, approximately
100 km of road to be rehabilitated annually per state; most contracts would be awarded via
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).



- 18 -
Table 8: Disbursements
Categoy          Amount of the Credit   I of Expenditures to be Financed
Alocated (USM)_
1. Civil Works
(a) Jigawa State           22,120,000      75%
(b) Kano State             27,010,000      75%
2. Equipment and Vehicles
(a) Jigawa State             300,000       100% of foreign expenditures and
75% of local expenditures
(b) Kano State               300,000       100% of fcreign expenditures and
R ______________________ i _________________  75%     of  local expenditures
3. Technical Assistance
(a) Jigawa State            1,880,000      100%
(b) Kano State              2,250,000      100%
(c) FMWH                    1,730,000      100%
4. Training
(a) Jigawa State            260,000        100%
(b) Kano State              260,000        100%
S. U1 loated
(a) Jigawa State            5,400,000
(b) Kano State              6,240,000
(c) FMWH                    250,000
TOTAL                  68,000,000
4.20 To facilitate project implementation, Special accounts in dollar would be established
for the Borrower and each project state in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to the bank. Initial deposits of US$200,000 for FMWH and US$1.0 million each
for the two project states would be made, sufficient to cover small expenditures over four
months. A condition of credit effectiveness is the opening of a Project Account with an initial
deposit of at least N 2 million by each participating state. All disbursements under the
project would be made against standard documentation except for contracts of less than
US$50,000 equivalent which may be claimed under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) with
related documentation retained for review by Bank supervision missions. During ne
agmw=  ws reached that, by June 30 each year, the States will submit to the Bank the
auditors report and audited financial statements for the Special Account, Project Accounts and



- 19 -
SOEs for the preceding calendar year, audited by an independent accountant acceptable to the
Bank. The FMWH project accounts will be audited on a similar basis.
4.21   As noted in para 4.10, a condition of disbursement on civil works in any project state
is implementation of an agreed action plan for recovering the costs of recurrent maintenance
at the state level.
H.   utine and Auditing
4.22   The accounting for aU Special Account transactions and for all other project-related
accounts will be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Annual
financial statements of Bank-financed components will be prepared and audited in accordance
with International Auditing Guidelines by suitably qualified independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. Audits will also be carried out, at the same time, and for corresponding periods in
accordance with Bank guidelines, for SOEs against which disbursements have been made or
are due to be made out of the credit proceeds, and specific reference will be made in the audit
reports accompanying the financial statements. Agreement was reached during negotiations
that auditors acceptable to the Bank will be retained by each state to review the accounting
systems and supporting internal procedures and practices for the special and project accounts
and SOEs, and recommend any needed changes which would be implemented after Bank
agreement and not later than September 30, 1993 (this arrangement would allow for three
months' operation of the accounts).
I. R=rting and MonitorinL
4.23   Quarterly progress reports covering all project components will be prepared by each
participating SMOWT, consolidated by FMWH, and sent to the Bank within one month after
the end of each quarter. These reports will include: (a) progress achieved against agreed
implementation and disbursement schedules, and key performance indicators; and (b) work
programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total project (para 4.18). The
main purpose of the reports will be to provide managers timely and updated information on
implementation of project components, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending
actions and commenting on progress in resolving previous recommendations. The FMWH
will also prepare a project completion report in accordance with Bank guidelines. During
negoiations thie foregfoing was agreed.
J. EnmiVDmeX As2ects
4.24   An environmental assesment has been completed for the proposed MSRP. It stated
that road construction projects often have adverse impacts on local environments. These
impacts may irAlude soil erosion due to improper designs of embankments or side drains;
scouring of the landscape due to the opening of borrow pits; and destruction of vegetation due
to clearig of right of ways. In the case of road rehabilitation and reconstruction works, the
enviromental impacts tend to be more local and limited, and result more from reconstruction
acdvities or improper design. The following impacts could be expected: (i) soil erosion from
side drains and improperly reseeded embankments; (ii) environmental and health problems
associated with the improper restoration of gravel borrow pits; (iii) local and temporary air
quality problems due to emissions from bitumen processing plants; and (iv) some destruction



- 20 -
of vegetation along the roads by the clearing of right-of-ways. Annex 4-10 provides more
details of the findings of the assessment.
4.25   The impacts of road rehabilitation will vary from state to state as each state has
different environmental conditions, particullarly with respect to topography and soil structure.
The severity of environmental impacts depends also on the type of rehabilitation work to be
undertaken, such as bituminous resealing, asphalt overlay, or regraveling, and the amount of
clearing associated with these works. In most cases, indirect environmental impacts of road
rehabilitation works under the project will probably not occur, since the road alignments and
gradients will generally remain unchanged.
4.26   The following steps are proposed to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts of the
proposed project: (i) survey of each project road to determine whether and where road
specific environmental impact analysis will be necessary; (ii) involvement of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) in providing locally adapted environmental
guidelines; (iii) systematically conducting local public hearing for the population living along
each project road, to gather views on environmental issues and concerns related to planned
and proposed project activities, and to incorporate these concerns in project planning to the
extent possible; (iv) identification of appropriate or innovative design procedures for
dispersing water runoff for project roads in all states; and (v) the establishment of an
Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit (EAMU) in the FMWH, possibly attached to
the Technology Transfer centers. During negotiations, these steps were discussed and agreed
upon. The employment of an environmental specialist to assist FMWH in the establishment
of EAMU is a condition of effectiveness.
4.27   The final reponsibility for the implementation of road specific ElAs lies with each
participating state. As neither the FEPA nor the SMOWTs have sufficient in-house
capabilities at present to conduct Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs), the assessments
will be done by consultants working under terms of reference provided by FMWH and agreed
with FEPA and the Bank. The consultants would be hired by each participating state under
the framework of the project. During negotiations. agreement was reached on procedures for
conducting and implementing road specific ElAs, including steps to mitigate any adverse
environmental impact of the proposed project.
K. Project Supervision
4.28   Three Bank supervision missions per year, each staffed by a highway engineer, an
economist and a financial/institutional analyst, and each of about two weeks duration, wonld
be required during the first three years of the life of the project and two per year thereafter.
Missions would review the physical components of the project and the institutional
development measures required, review implementation of the cost recovery measures
proposed under the project and agree on remedial measures. The mission reviews would be
done in the context of agreed targets. The mid-term project review (para 4.13) includes an
environmental impact review to be undertaken by about the end of 1995 and corrective actions
to be drawn up (Annex 4-8).
4.29   One of the Bank supervision missions would be carried out in the last quarter of each
implementation year to assess progress during the past year and review the work program and
budgetary allocations for the following year (para 4.13). During this annual project review,



- 21 -
evidence of minimum budgetary allocations would be provided by the states. Allocations in
1983 would be as follows:
(a)   at least N8,000,000 in the Jigawa state budget for recurrent maintenance of
state roads; and
(b)   at least N9,500,000 in the Kano state budget for recurrent maintenance of
state roads.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.1   The benefits of road improvements under the project consist of savings in vehicle
operating costs (VOC) from normal traffic plus any generated or diverted traffic where
applicable. Additional benefits comprise savings in maintenance costs resulting from the
improved condition of roads. Specific irnvestments have been selected based on economic
analysis using a methodology described in Annex 5-1 which employs the Bank's Highway
Design and Maintenance Model (HDM  o) for evaluating alternative investments on each of
the road sections under consideration in the state road networks. The cost estimates for the
economic analysis were based on engineering studies which were carried out by consultants
during project preparation in accordance with agreed design standards (Annex 4-1). Costs
were considered both in financial and economic terms (after adjusting for taxes, duties and
subsidies, etc). Although not expected to be significant in most cases, benefits to generated
traffic were computed on the basis of 50% of savings in unit VOC. Traffic projections over
the economic life of a road improvement are based on a uniform growth rate of 3% per
annum.
5.2    Alternatives for determining the extent of works ranged from minimal routine
maintenance on the existing roads to resurfacing and complete reconstruction of the road
pavement. Benefits were evaluated on a "witn and without investment" basis, derived from
savings in VOC and reductions in cost of road maintenance. Evaluation was based on the net
present value (NPV) of all costs and benefits and the economic rates of return (ERRs) of the
proposed works on each road section under consideration. The minimum desirable cut-off
ERR was taken as 12% per annum.
5.3   The cost of the equipment and vehicles to be purchased under the project amounts to
less than 1% of the project, and technical assistance components, including manpower
development and training, amounts to about 11% of total project cost. These components are
of a qualitative rather than quantitative nature and thus no ERR has been calculated for them.
They are, however, expected to enhance the efficiency and sustainability of road
improvements.
5.4   Table 6 of Annex 5-1 gives a summary of the NPV (at 12% discount rate) and the
ERR of selected road improvements to be implemented in each of the participating states
under the project. ERRs on individual road projects selected for implementation range from
12 to over 100%, with most works exceeding 30%. Overall weighted average ERR for road
investments in Kano is 48% and Jigawa 24%. The ERR for the combined road investment in



- 22 -
both states is 37%. Although this rate may seem somewhat overstated, it is generally
consistent with high ERRs recorded in many countries for road rehabilitation.
5.5 There are three major risks associated with the project. The first concerns the ability
of new and untried state executing agencies to effectively manage both a large increase in
maintenance operations and the switch to contract works. Even where there is a degree of
existing experience, it may well be difficult for these agencies to maintain and expedite the
work schedules envisaged in each state. The second risk concerns state capacity to maintain
an acceptable contracting process. Given the many problems encountered in implementing
contracts over the past decades, extra caution will be required to ensure that the proper
supervision and completion of contracts is maintained. The third risk involves the provision
of counterpart funds which have historically been a major problem in project implementation
in all sectors. The first two risks will be addressed through the close and continual
interactions of the state agencies, the consultants, and the Bank. The third risk will be
addressed by having counterpart funds deducted at the source, and the commitment of the
participating states to do so was a condition of negotiations. A condition of credit
^ectivenm in each of the participating states is the opening of a Project Account with an
initial deposit of at least N2 million.
VI. AGREEMENTS ANMDRE AMELQ
6.1   In addition to standard covenants, the following matters were aUgr   with the
Govenment (FMF, FMWH and the States of Jigawa and Kano):
(a)    all civil works will be executed by contract (para 4.2);
(b)   the list of priority roads to be included in the Project (para 4.3);
(c)   the details of the manpower development program (para 4.5);
(d)    confirmation of the project cost estimates (Para 4.6);
(e)    no expenditures on roads outside the project will be undertaken by the states
in excess of US$5 million without consultation with the Bank (para. 4.7);
(f)    FGN will onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to the states at the standard
variable interest for 20 years, including five years of grace, and the states wiUl
bear the foreign exchange risk (para 4.8);
(g)   the putting in place of a mechanism for transfer of local counterpart funds
from the Federation Account to the Project Account of each state (para 4.9);
(h)    a plan of action prepared by the participating states to increase the road user
charges under their jurisdiction to recover at least the cost of road recurrent
maintenance (para 4 10);



- 23 -
(i)   suitable consultants will be appointed by the FMWH and the individual states
on terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank (para. 4.12);
0)    a mid-term project review will be carried out involving IDA, and relevant
government agencies not later than December 1995 to evaluate and assess (i)
overall progress made in project implementation including status of road user
charges and cost recovery, use of private contractors, and training; (ii)
performance of FMWH in its coordinating capacity; ffii) performance of
SMOWTs as executing agencies; (iv) assessment of environmental impact; and
(v) need for redesign and/or restructuring of project components (para. 4.13);
(k)   in addition to the mid-term project review, annual reviews would be held in
the last quarter of each implementation year to assess progress during the past
year and review the work program and budgetary allocations for the following
year (para. 4.13);
(1)   standard bidding documents adopted by FMWH will be used in carrying out
civil works (para 4.16);
(m)   by June 30, the states will submit to the Bank the auditor's report and audited
financial statements of the Special Accounts, Project Accounts, and SOEs for
the preceding calendar year, audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
the Bank. The FMWH accounts will be audited on a similar basis (para
4.20);
(n)   the states will implement auditing arrangements which include implementation
of needed changes to accounting procedures and practices after an exchange of
views with the Bank not later than September 30, 1993 (para 4.22);
(o)   reporting requirements and key indicators for monitoring progress of the
project will be met (para 4.23);
(p)   steps to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts of the proposed project,
including the arrangements for establishing an EAMU in the FMWH (para
4.26);
(q)   procedures for conducting and implementing road specific EIAs (para 4.27);
(r)    at least Naira 8,000,000 equivalent will be allocated anmnally in the Jigawa
state budget for recurrent maintenance of state roads (para 4.29); and
(s)    at least Naira 9,500,000 equivalent will be allocated annually in the Kano state
budget for recurrent maintenance of state roads (para 4.29).
6.2   The following actions would be taken prior to .rit effectiveness:
(a)   forwarding training plans to the Bank for its review and agreement (para 4.5);



- 24 -
(b)    signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the FGN and at least one of
the participating states (para 4.8);
(c)   the commitment by at least one state to incorporate in its 1993 budget
proposals an increase in road user charges required to recover the costs of
recurrent maintenance (para 4.10);
(d)    appointment of consultants by the two participating states, on terms and
conditions agreeable to the Bank (para 4.12);
(e)    opening by each participating state of a Project Account with an initial deposit
of at least N2 million in a commercial bank (para 4.20); and
(f)   the employment of an environmental specialist to assist FMWH in the
establishment of EAMU (para 4.26).
6.5    Conditions of disbursement in any one of the project states are:
(a)    signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the state and FGN, for the
state which had not signed such an agreement by the time of credit
effectiveness (para 4.8);
(b)   the commitment to incorporate in its 1993 budget proposals an increase in
road user charges required to recover the costs of recurrent maintenance, for
the state which had not implemented such a plan by the time of credit
effectiveness (para 4.10);
(c)    evidence of allocation of at least N8,000,000 for financing of maintenance
operations in the 1993 Jigawa state budget (paras 4.10 and 4.29); and
(d)    evidence of allocation of at least N9,500,000 for financing of maintenance
operations in the 1993 Kano state budget (paras 4.10 and 4.29).
6.6   Subject to agreement on the above, the proposed First Multistate Roads Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 49.8 million (US$68.0 million equivalent) to the Federal
Republic of Nigeria.



- 25 -
Annex 1-1
Page I of 6
FEDERAL REPUJBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Nigeria Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Initiative (NRRMI)
Background
1.    The World Bank's 1988 report on "Road Deterioration in Developing Countries:
Causes and Remedies" revealed the magnitude of the loss of road infrastructure due to
inadequate maintenance. Due to the extensive construction program the condition of Nigerian
paved roads has been better than average in Africa. However, the deterioration process along
the Nigerian road network has already brought more paved roads to the class "poor" than the
average in Africa and the situation with unpaved roads is even worse.
Table 1: Estimated Condition of the Main Road Network in Nigeria and Africa in 1989
Condition of roads in %              Good          Fair          Poor
Nigerian main paved roads             67%           5%           28%
Nigerian main unpaved roads            0%           10%          90%
African paved roads average           45%           31%          24%
African unpaved roads avg.            26%           34%          40%
2.    Studies have revealed that the reasons for poor condition of African roads are mainly
institutional and managerial, but also financial and technical. Strong local commitment is
needed to reform policies related to road maintenance, to improve the operation and
management of road agencies, to develop human resources and to use road related funds to
maintain the existing network. As a first step toward addressing these issues and helping
governments improve their own capacities to address transport problems, the Sub-Saharan
Africa Transport Program (SSATP) was initiated in 1987.
The Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI)
3.    The RMI has been developed as one of the central components of the SSATP, as an
effort to define and resolve any road maintenance policy issues by the participating countries
themselves. The RMI is a joint undertaking of the United Nations Economic Commission for
Africa and several Development Agencies coordinated by the World Bank. The RMI was
designed to facilitate national policy dialogue, to select important themes for reform, to create
positive environment for the reform process and to bring about sustained reforms in the
selected road maintenance policies.



- 26 -
Annex 1-1
Page 2 gf 6
4.    The RMI is being implemented in a phased approach. During the first phase all of the
SSA countries participated in one of the six regional seminars held from May 1989 to
February 1990 in Harare, Accra, Addis Ababa, Dakar, Libreville and Antananarivo. During
these seminars the participating country teams identified the sources of the main problems
associated with road deterioration and poor maintenance in their countries, set clear goals,
devised a policy strategy to achieve these goals and finally specified the measures to be
carried out by government institutions and agencies in their countries.
5.    The seminars followed the Policy Action Planning (PAP) method developed by the
Carl Duisberg Gesellschaft, a training institute of Cologne, Germany. The PAP method
brought the participants to work together as a national team to choose a limited number of
goals as national priorities. Those goals were transformed into concrete objectives. The
participants then defined the measures needed to achieve these objectives.
6.    The second phase of the RMI focuses on facilitating the process for policy reforms in
a limited number of selected countries. It has been designed to support the development,
introduction, adoption and implementation of improved policies, related to one or more
important aspects of road planning, maintenance and administration, in a limited number of
volunteering countries. The RMI Phase II is carried out in those countries that express an
interest in developing road maintenance from the policy perspective, indicate their
commitment to undertake reforms and for which key donors have expressed an interest in
financial support.
RMI in Nigeria
7.    The RMI phase II in Nigeria is called Nigeria Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Initiative (NRRMI). It is intended to enable Nigerian policy makers and senior managers to
assist Nigeria in improving its road maintenance policies and strategies. It will be the link
between the various efforts in Nigeria being undertaken by Federal Government, State
Governments, private organizations, development banks and donor agencies to improve road
maintenance.
8.    The overall development objective is to secure sustainable improvements in road
sector performance in Nigeria. The immediate NRRMI objectives are:
(a)   to ensure that the need for reform is recognized, and to build up motivation
and commitment to address the problems;
(b)   to facilitate through NRRMI, the identification of appropriate policy options
and promote the adoption of these policies; and
(c)   to support and monitor the implementation of the adopted policies and to
assess their effectiveness.



-27 -                              Annex M-
Page 3 of 6
The Develogment of NRRMI
9.    A team of nine officials represented Nigeria at the RMI Phase I Seminar in   Accra
on June, 1989. The participating officials identified two major areas for further development
for policy reforms:
(a)   inadequate road maintcmqnce funding; and
(b)   the need to establish an autonomous Road Agency.
10.   To initiate the RMI Phase II the Government of Nigeria in February 1991 expressed
its willingness to take the following actions in order to enter Phase I of the RMI:
(a)   select policy issues for review;
(b)   establish an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee for the RMI Nigeria; and
(c)   establish a Secretariat and appoint a National Coordinator (NC) for RMI.
'he National Road Maintenance Policy Seminar (RMPS). Otta. Ogun State. September, 1991.
11.   To launch the RMI Phase U in Nigeria, a Seminar on Road Maintenance Policy
Reform was organized by the Nigerian Instdtute of Transport Technology (NITI) on behalf of
the FMWH and in collaboration with the World Bank at the Gateway International Hotel,
Otta, Ogun State from the 9 to 13 September, 1991. The objectives of the Seminar were:
(a)   to raise and sustain awareness and commitment for maintaining and
rehabilitating the Nigerian road network;
(b)   to identify issues midgating against effective road maintenance; and
(c)    To develop policy action planning capacity amongst the participating
institutions and government organizations.
12.   The Seminar was headed by the Hon. Ministers of Works and Housing, and Transport
and Communication, and attracted more than hundred participants from the Federal and State
organizations. The RMPS revealed a number of key matters to be reformed when aiming at
improvemnt in road mantenance. These issues were elaborated into the following nine
recommendations in the Seminar Communique:
(a)   increase in recurrent and periodic maintenance funding;
(b)   establishment of a Federal Highway Authority;
(c)   improved training for highway sector civil servants;
(d)   support for competent indigenous contractors;



- 28 -
Annex 1-1
Page 4 of 6
(e)    safeguarding of public highway property;
(f)   inclusion of maintenance training in university level curricula;
(g)    use of contractors for road maintenance;
(h)    appropriate use of labor intensive and lightly mechanized methods in road
maintenance;
(i)    strengthening of pavements and stricter axle load control;
0)    need for improved management procedures, methods and systems.
13.   Some additional issues arising from the review and assessment of current FHD
operations are:
(a)    adoption of "resealing' in maintenance activities;
(b)    poor dissemination of study reports as well as available data in the Pavement
Evaluation Unit and the Training Centers;
(c)    need for substantial increase in the 1st and 4th quarter budget allocations for
road maintenance works;
(d)   institutionalizing the separation of planning and monitoring functions from
those of execution; and
(e)    clearing the maintenance backlog.
NRRMI Proiect Document
14.   A Project Document has been prepared by a local consultant under the guidance of the
National Coordinator and World Bank AF4IN and AFTIN RMI Unit, in order to further
develop policy reforms. The following issues have been selected in the Project Document as
the first priority policy reform topics:
(a)    Sufficient maintenance financing through a Road Fund;
(b)    Increased use of contractors in road maintenance;
(c)    Establishment of the Federal Highway Authority.
15.   The selected priority issues as well as the remaining issues as stated above, are further
elaborated in the NRRMI Project Document. A Plan of Operation is also ir,cluded in the
Project Document for studies, seminars and policy reforms.



- 29 -
Annex 1-1
Page 5 of 6
16.   The following action plan is proposed for NRRMI:
Plan of Actions
Action                        1992                         1993            l
Preparation of NRRMI-Project -
Document
Launching of NRRMI                  x
Seminar 1.                                   x
Seminar 2.                                                x
Seminar 3.                                                          x
Study of financing of road
maintenance
Use of contract maintenance
study
Studies related to other
NRRMI issues                                                      ___
17.   The following studies are proposed in the Project Document:
US$ millions
(a)    Study of financing road maintenance                          100.000
(b)    Use of contractors to perform road maintenance               60.000
(c)    Preparation of a 10-year Road Program                        300.000
(d)    Road sector manpower and training needs                      250.000
(e)    Use of labor intensive and lightly mechanized
road maintenance methods                                     100.000
Total               810.000
The Project Document recommends these studies to be taken as part of the consequent Highway
Sector and Multistate Roads Projects.



- 30 -
Annex 1-1
Page60of6
The Role of States in NRRMI
18.   As part of the NRRMI there will be three Regional Road Maintenance Policy Seminars during
1992-1993. The focus in these seminars will be on state level improvement of applied maintenance
policies and the cooperation between federal and state authorities. The first regional seminar will
focus on the selected three first priority reform issues. It will be held in conjunction with the
launching of the MSRP. The studies and reports prepared under NRRMI will be discussed with and
delivered to the states. NRRMI will support the state level policy reforms and contribute to the state
road sector seminars within its capacity. Under the NRRMI the federal and state officials, the
indigenous stakeholders, the donor and aid organizations will be brought together to reinforce the
efforts in improving road maintenance at all levels in Nigeria.



- 31 -
Annex 2-1
Page I of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Past Bank Involvement in the Road Sub-Sector
1.    There have been eight projects in the highway sub-sector, including the road
component of a transportation rehabilitation project. In summary, the project content was as
follows:
(a)    Northern_Road Project (Credit 73-UNI, March 1965). This credit was made
to the Northern Region of Nigeria, and financed road construction,
construction supervision by consultants, and the supply of materials testing
equipment and weigh bridges.
(b)    Apapa Road Project (Loan 426-UNI, September 1965). This was a section of
urban road which consisted of the Ijora Causeway (1.2 miles) and Apapa Road
(2.5 miles) both to 4-lane divided standard.
(c)    Western Road Project (Loan 427-UNI, September 1965). This loan was on-
lent to the Western Region. It covered trunk road improvements and
consulting services for the supervision of works and detailed engineering, and
reorganized maintenance operations. It also included the procurement of
maintenance equipment and spare parts.
(d)    Road Rehabilitadon Project (Loan 640-UNI, November 1969). The project
included the rehabilitation of about 200 miles of roads in the Lagos-Kano
corridor, and detailed engineering of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway.
(e)    Transportation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 694-UNI, June 1970). This was
intended to be a quick disbursing loan to rehabilitate priority transport
infrastructure that had been damaged during the 1967-70 civil war. Project
components were only tentatively identified at appraisal, consisting of eight
road sections, and consultants for engineering and construction supervision.
(f)    Fifth Highway Project (Loan 883-UNI, June 1974). As appraised, the project
provided for (i) rehabilitation of 109 miles of highways and reconstruction of
eight bridges, (ii) consulting services for construction supervision, feasibility
studies and detailed engineering, plus technical assistance for improvements in
federal highway management planning and maintenance, and (iii) acquisition
of highway planning and vehicle weight control equipment.
(g)    Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1883-UNI, August 1980). The project
components provided for: (a) strengthening about 520 km of federal trunk
roads, (b) studies of the Calabar-lkom road, and establishing improvement
priorities on the federal trunk road system, (c) technical assistance for a
training program for technicians, and personnel planning,
design, construction and maintenance in FHD, and a pavement
evaluation unit, (d) housing for technical assistance staff, and



- 32 -
Annex 2-I
Page 2 of 5
(e) highway safety equipment and pavement evaluation
equipment.
(h)    Highway Sector Loan (Loan 2963 UNI, September, 1989) The loan became
effective as of March 30, 1990. The loan was to support FHD's highway
sector program over the 1989-91 period. It required the following significant
changes in FHD's past practices:
(i)    highway expenditures to reflect substantial changes in favor of routine
maintenance, rehabilitation, and strengthening;
(ii)   improved planning and programming of proposed improvement works
by carrying out economic analyses;
(iii)   more orderly budgeting and planning, and systematic preparation of
detailed designs;
(iv)   civil works lots to consist of road sections approximately 50 km long
which will enable most contracts to be completed in 12 to 18 months;
(v)    better supervision of rehabilitation, strengthening, new construction,
and routine maintenance; and
(vi)   a maintenance management system to be developed to include analyses
of the advantages and disadvantages of routine maintenance by
contract and by force account.
2.    No Project Completion or Audit Reports were written on the Northern Road Project.
The road construction encountered significant technical problems during and immediately after
execution.
3.    The Apapa Road project (PPAR No. 1229, July 1976) was eventually completed
successfully, and in spite of cost and time overruns the project was economically justified.
Issues discussed in the Project Performance Audit Review (Report No. 1229, July 1976)
were:
(a)    The quality of the original technical design: the consultant chosen by FHD (on
the basis of price as later revealed) to review the FHD design proved to be
incompetent.
(b)    Use of consultants for construction supervision: the consultants began work in
July 1966; the Bank had proposed supervision by consultants, but accepted a
compromise that the consultants act in an advisory capacity to
FHD which insisted it had competent staff. The subsequent
Tribunal of Inquiry considered that the Bank would have been
justified in insisting on full construction supervision by the
consultants.



- 33 -
Annex 2-1
Pagze 3 of 5
(c)    The traffic capacity of the initial design was inadequate and was more than
doubled during the redesign.
(d)    The Government did not comply with some loan covenants. The Bank may
have chosen not to enforce these because of the civil war in progress at the
time. Irregularities in the administration of the project led to the appointment
of a Tribunal of Inquiry and the removal of the FHD Director from office.
4.    The works included in the Western Road Project (PPAR No. 1639, June 1977), were
successfully completed, but there was only limited success in improving maintenance
operations as the Government lacked adequate management personnel, funds, and control over
heavy vehicles. The Government was late with payments to consultants and contractors, and
there was delay in appointing the maintenance advisors because of disagreement between the
Government and the Bank over the terms of service for the advisors.
5.    The main objective of the Road Rehabilitation Project (PPAR No. 1410, January
1977) was the rapid rehabilitation of two road sections. Project processing was prompt and
flexible, but loan effectiveness and contract awards were delayed, the first by 4 months more
than expected, and the second by a year. As a result the roads continued to deteriorate and
rehabilitation was much more extensive than expected, raising costs and ultimately less than
half the original length was built. The study of the Lagos-Ibadan road led to a major
disagreement between the Government and the Bank about the timing of construction. During
appraisal of the Sixth Highway Project in December 1974 the Government informed the
mission that it had decided to stop seeking loans for the transport sector.
6.    For the Transport Rehabilitation Project (PPAR NO. 2092, June 1978), despite
modification of the Bank's procedures, the intended rapid disbursements did not materialize.
The delays were caused by the Bank's need for economic analysis during the "identification"
of sub-projects, and by the Government's slow procurement. The slow procurement under
the Road and Transport Rehabilitation Projects was partly related to the Tribunal of Inquiry
on the Apapa Road Project.
7.    The execution of the Fifth Highway Project (PPAR No. 3244, December 1980)
covered a period of major disagreement on highway matters between the Government and the
Bank. As a result no supervision missions visited Nigeria between September 1975 and May
1978. Execution of civil works was generally satisfactory except for poor contractor
performance on one lot, which reduced the length of highways completed from 109 to 99
miles. All the bridges were completed satisfactorily. The institutional development was less
successful. Measures for improving federal highway maintenance were well conceived but
reallocation of responsibility for maintenance from FHD to SMOWTs made the consultants'
efforts of marginal relevance. The Government made only limited progress on implementing
loan covenants on axle-loading and building up a data base, because these were not priority
objectives for FHD. Apparently, conditions offered were not sufficient to attract high caliber
experts to Nigeria to build the capacity of FHD, although eventually a traffic engineer was
seconded from the British Transport and Road Research Laboratory for eighteen months. He
was assisted by two experts funded by United States Agency for International Development.
8.    The Sixth Highway Project was completed September 30, 1988. The road
strengthening works have been completed, together with the acquisition of highway safety



- 34 -
Annex 2-1
Page 4of 5
equipment and pavement evaluation equipment. Institutional development was limited. The
pavement evaluation unit was established, although its role is only now being defined under
the Highway Sector Loan. Other than the consultants for maintenance monitoring, the posts
foreseen in planning, design and construction was not filled. This was partly due to
administrative delays, but also to a Government desire to reduce the amount of expatriate
assistance.
Highway Sector Loan
9.    The Highway Sector Project is approximately 15% completed. Overall, the project is
about 2 years behind schedule. As of January 31, 1992 the loan has disbursed about $40
million against the original SAR forecast amount of $122 million. Now, the project
management and coordination conmaltants are in place; progress has improved. About 17
contracts for design work have been signed, bids for procurement of equipment have been
invited, preparation of bid documents for three major civil works contracts are under final
stages of preparation and contracts for design of another 15 road projects have been approved
for award.
10.   Financial Covenants: The Special Account, Project Accounts, and the Statements of
Expenditure under the project were audited in December 1991 and the auditors' report has
been found satisfactory.
:1.   Kev Issues:
(a)    Caital Expniture: The allocation of budgetary resources for capital
expenditure on federal highways has been less than the norm stated in the loan
agreement (the agreement calls for allocating 15% of total federal capital
expenditure to transport sector, annually, of which 80% must be allocated to
federal highways). In light of changed circumstances and the incidence of
supplementary budget allocations during the year, these percentages may or
may not be valid. However, the last PER established the need for allocating
N600 million (in 1991 prices) annually for capital expenditure on federal
highways. For 1992, this amounts to about N790 million. Government is
expected to allocate an additional N440 million during the year to meet
current needs.
(b)    Recurrent Exenditures: The loan agreement provides a covenant requiring
allocaton of adequate funds for recurrent maintenance of federal highways.
Past allocations have been inadequate. The 1992 allocation of N368 million is
a significant improvement and close to requirement. However, due to past
inadequate investments in periodic and routine maintenance, a large fraction of
the recurrent expenditure continues to be made on emergency and special
repair projects, leaving little for programmed routine maintenance. Agreement
has been made with FMWH to deposit by end-March, 1992, Ng million into
project account B and by mid-May, 1992, implement a pilot program of
routine maintenance by contract. The success of this program will be reviewed
in July 1992.



- 35 -
Annex 2-1
page, 5 of 5
(c)    Road Usr Charge  After the delay of 18 months in getting started, the road
user charges study is progressing well. Phase U has been delayed further by
two months and expected to finish in June 1992. However, agreement has
been obtained with FMWH that the consultant will present recommendations
for recovering at least the recurrent maintenance costs from the road users for
review by the ministry by end-May 1992. The Ministry will present to the
Bank its comments by end-June 1992. Implementation of an agreed plan of
action is anticipated by September 1992. It is likely that Government is
already recovering more than the desirable recurrent expenditure.
12.   Inter-personal relationships between Bank staff and management of FMWH have
improved significantly in the last one year or so, and this would be seen as a major
contributing factor in continuation of satisfactory progress in future.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
CHARACTERISTICS OF STATE ROAD NETWORKS 1988
Road Projects Included in 4th 5-yr Plan (1981-
Road Length      Paved Roads    1985) for Rehab/Constr./Resurfacing to:
Road                                             With ADT = 300  With ADT Less             Paved   Unpaved
Network   Paved Roads Condition of State Roads (a)   or More          Than 300            Standard   Standard       Total
(km)      (km) (%)  % Good  % Fair % Poor    (km)  % Paved)                (km)            (kn)       (kn)         (kn)
Anambra/Enugu     1686       320  19        21       16      68       733      (41)             0            1100         0          1100
Bauchi            1480 (e)  250  17         11        0      89       182    (100)             68             770         0           770
BeadcUDe11a       3304      1490  4S        21       50      29      11l7      (82)           570            2000         0          2000
Beanue            2950       530  18        23       40      37      1118      (36)           142             940       1350         2290
BomolYobe         1700 (e)  149   9          0      100       0       149    (100)              0            1700         0          1700
Cross River/
Akw lbom          1964       310  16        24       30      46       439      (66)            25             800       350          1150
GongolafTaraba    1165       240  21        69        0      31       352      (56)            46             140       890          1030
ImolAbia          1217       780  64        29       32      39       920      (85)             0            1290          i         1290
Kaduna/Katsina    1880      1090  58        78       16       6      1096      (99)             0             730       530          1260
Kano/Jigawa       1390      1000  72        68       25       7       825      (89)           266            1620         0          1620
Kwara/Kogi        1189       210  18         4        4      92       373      (58)            64            1000         0          1000
Lagos              370 (b)  -() 96          75       17       a       207      (97)           148             320         0           320
Niger              700       447  58        42       27      30       450      (90)             0             300       660          960
Ogun               917 (b)  400  44         34       33      32       497      (67)            70             780       500          1280
Ondo              2160      1120  52         3       24      73      1170      (68)           330            2500         0          2500
Oyo/Osun          1099 (b)  480  44         25       22      53       387      (68)           220            1340       1520         2860
Plateau           2242       240  11        IS      48       37       395      (56)            25             540       560          1100
Rivera             515       470  91        69       12      19       247      (96)           255            1090         0          1090
Sokoto/Kebbi      2620       558  21        50       25      25       526      (78)           124            1220        50          1270
TOTALS           30548     10434  34                                                                        20180      6410         26590
(a) Condition daft based on a 20-95% sample of state roads with ADT of 250 or more. The overall condition of state road networks
is likely to be much worse than the satistics shown above, as the condition statistics do not include lower volume roads
which are genally in worse condition.
(b) Exduding urban and township rods.
(c) Estinmnte.
Source: Report No. 7844-UNI, Federal Republic of Nigeria: Road Sector Strategy Paper', January 1991, World Bank.



- 37 -
Annex 3-2
Page I of 6
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Selected Information on Project States
A.    Background
1.    Both Jigawa and Kano are located on the northern border of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria. Both are subject to the harmattan season of dry sandy winds. The dry season occurs
from March to May which is followed by a rainy period that lasts until September.
2.    There are over one million farming families in the Jigawa/Kano area. The principal
crops include groundnuts, millet, guinea-corn, cotton, pepper, maize, cowpeas, rice, wheat
and a wide variety of vegetables. Livestock comprises cattle, sheep, goats, donkeys, horses
and camels. The Government is targeting food self-sufficiency for the area and is helping
with training and other special programs to encourage progress. There are both medium and
large-scale industry in the two state area. Their estimated output for a variety of
manufactured products exceeds N 100,000,000 annually.
3.    Selected Statistics
Total Estimated Population, 1991                                8.46 million
Kano                                                          5.63 million
Jigawa                                                        2.83 million
Total Area                                                     3,345 km2
Capital Expenditure 1990 (N million)
(a)    Total Expenditure                                            1,726.0
(b)    Total Capital Expenditure                                     914.0
(c)    Amount allocated to Roads                                     220.0
(d)    Amount allocated to Roads as %
capital expenditure                                           24.1%9
(e)    Amount allocated to Roads as 96
of total 1990 receipts                                        12.7%
Main Sources of Revenue for the State (N million)
1990  1991
(a)    Statutory allocation from
the Federal Government                                740.0  1,165.5
(b)   Internal Resource Mobilization                        205.8   257.3
(Source: Annual Abstract of Statistics, 1988, Budget Book, 1991)



- 38 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 gf 6
B. -Rold Condiion
The attached figures give for each project state the length of the road network in
good, fair and poor condition in January 1992 and January 1998. The latter was estimated
assuming full project implementation and further deterioration of roads not included in the
project.



- 39 -
Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 6
Road Network Condition
A. In January 1992
Length in Km
600   ' 
362     34
300 ............    28
200                                          7
100~~
0
Kano State                     Jigawa State
C]  Good Condition                    Fair Condition
Poor Condition
Source: TRDF consultant's report January 1992
Note: Includes paved & unpaved roads



- 40 -
Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 6
Paved Road Network Condition
A. In January 1992
Length in Km
362
298
300 -               282
200-
100~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
0~~~
Kano State                      Jigawa State
aJ  Good Condition                     Fair Condition
Poor Condition
Source: TRDF consultant's report January 1992



- 41 -
Annex 3-2
Page 5 of 6
Road Network Condition
B. Estimated January 1998
Length in Km
400 -
364
344
296
2012
100 
0
Kano State                   Jigawa State
EJ  Good Condition              S   Fair Condition
Poor Condition
Source: TRDF consultant's report January 1992
Note: Includes paved & unpaved roads



- 42 -
Annex 3-2
Page 6 of 6
Paved Road Network Condition
B. Estimated January 1998
Length in Km
400-
350 ... .3.44...324
2SO- ~~~~.      .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .  .... . . .   ..........................  .............  .-23
300 0
2 5 0                                                           2 23... ..................  ....................
200~~~~~~~~~~~~2
150~~~12
100 
0
Kano State                       Jigawa State
EJ  Good Condition                      Fair Condition
Poor Condition
Source: TRDF consultant's report January 1992



- 43 -
Annex 3-3
Nege I of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
EFIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PRQJI
STATE GOVERNMENT FINANCES
(1) Summary of State Government Recurrent Revenue
(Mmillions)
KANO/JIGAWA
REVENUES
1986   1987   1989    1990    1991
TAXES                                 33.09   42.95   n.a.   67.75    n.a.
FEES & FINES                           8.81   8.94   n.a.   15.99    n.a.
Veh. Ownership Transfer               0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
Vehicle Registration                  0.21    0.02    0.18    0.20    0.60
Fines & Towing                        0.06    0.00    0.06    0.07   0.09
Road Worihiness Test                  0.07   0.07   0.12    0.11   0.01
Parking Charges                       0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Trauport                    0.34   0.08   0.36    0.38    0.70
LICENSES                               4.86    5.06   n.a.    7.09    n.a.
Drivers License                       0.43    0.42   0.45    0.51    0.61
Motor Vehicle License                 3.85   3.91    3.95    4.09    3.65
Hackney Permits                       0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
Subtotal ransport                    4.28   4.33    4.39    4.59   4.26
Total Transport                      4.62    4.41    4.75    4.97   4.96
EARNINGS & SALES                       3.44   5.56    n.a.   20.48    n.a.
STATUTORY ALLOCATIONS                228.23  508.19 655.00  794.55    n.a.
OTHERS                                46.35   39.65    n.a.   168.10   n.a.
TOTAL                            384.78 610.35 655.00  1073.95   0.00
ZVansport as % of Total Revenue wxcl
Stat. A0cc.                           4.8%    4.3%    &a    1.8%      n.a.
Data reflect actual revenue for each year.



- 44 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
STATE GOVERNMENT FINANCES
(2) Summary of State Government Receipts and Exoenditures
(Nmillions)
REVENUE/EXPEND.             Budget          Actual          Budget       Budget
PATTERN                 1989            1989            1990          1991
Statutory Revenue From
Federation Account           645.05  64%    794.55  69%    740.00 57%   1165.50  65%
Intemal Revenue              204.99  20%    279.43  24%    205.80 16%   257.26  14%
Capital Recipts              162.38  16%      81.44   7%    358.90 28%    373.30  21%
Total Receipts                1012.42 100%    1155.71 100%   1304.70 100%   1796.06 100%
Current Expenditures           669.67  66%     632.62  63%    845.80 65%   1129.79  63%
Of which road maint.          3.00             3.97
Maint. % of Curr. Exp.        0.4%            0.6%           0.0%           0.0%
Capital Expenditures           342.75  34%     367.13  37%    458.90 35%    666.27  37%
Total Expenditures            1012.42 100%    999.75 100%   1304.70 100%   1796.06 100%
Roads Fhancing                  15.70           16.44          10.05         123.63
Roads Finncing as % of Totae
Receipts                         2%               1%             1%             7%
Notes:
Capital Receipts = Total Capital Development Fund-Surplus over recurrent Expenditure.
Major new construction was undertaken in 1990 which explains the deviation between
budgeted amount and actual for that year.
'Budget' denotes Approved Estimates.
Data extracted from Budget Books of the Government of Kano State of Nigeria.



- 45 -                       ~~~~~Annex 3-3
45 -                                Page 3 of-5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
STATE GOVERNMENT FINANCES
(3) CapitJ Expenditure Patterns
(N millions)
KANO/JIGAWA
SECTOR/subsector                          1989              1990          1991
Approved  Actual   Approved  Actual  Approved
ECONOMICS
Agriculture & Rural Division       126.83     94.94    165.51    105.64     133.83
Livestock                           2.70      2.55      1.74      2.52        4.95
Forestry                            1.49      2.48      3.35      5.06        6.30
Fisheries                           0.05      0.04      0.07      0.06        0.40
Manufacturing                      10.50       0.00     0.00      0.86        9.80
Power                               7.85       1.48     5.36      4.14       14.00
Commerce, Finance                  10.05       2.96    51.34      0.00        6.55
Transport                          15.70     16.44     10.05      9.23     123.63'
Subtotal                        175.17     120.88    237.14    127.51     299.46
SOCIAL SERVICES
Education                          36.40      33.25    19.30     26.76       54.73
Health                             23.06      47.03     7.57     10.39       16.18
Information                         4.70       3.45    22.95      2.45       34.50
Social Development                  6.05       5.16     7.77      3.24       28.55
Subtotal                         70.21      88.89    57.58     42.84      133.96
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Water Supply                       30.50      29.19    118.46    13.39       87.26
Sewerage & Drainage                 6.20       2.34     2.21      0.38        3.50
Housing                             5.83      11.04     9.90     10.38       18.15
Town & Country Planning             8.30       5.S0     3.02      4.37        6.60
Community Development               0.90       1.21     0.50      0.S3        2.20
Subtotal                          51.73     49.28    134.08     29.04      117.71
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION               53.64    108.07     29.89    77.01       92.15
GRAND TOTAL                      3S0.7S    367.12    4S8.97    276.39     643.28
Transport &apendture as %
of Told COW E.pmndlhe                4.5%      4.5%      2.2%      3.3%      19.2%
lThe 1991 approved capital expenditure estimate for transport in Kano/Jigawa includes an extra-budgetary amount
of N 100 million for a bypass from Zaira.



SOURCES OF GOVERNMENT RECEIPTS
KANO/JIGAWA STATES
(Naira millions)
2000
1796
1500-     .  .............   ......         ..  ... 
1 0002W 7 Ii 
1305~~~~~~~~~~0
0~~~4
Federation Acct    Internal Rev    Capital Receipts   Total receipts
(Statutory revenue sources)
c  1989       0  1990          1991
Actuals for 1989                                                          O
Approved budgets for 1990, 1991            



JIGAWA/KANO STATE SECTORAL ALLOCATIONS
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES PATTERNS
C.MMUc Ss
%VTW.IW 55                                    RM= D3M3N14%
CTIUW 13W 1
HtnuEDuc *1 
1990 Actual                                              WIUSEW14*
1991 Approved
Source: Approved Budget Kano, 1991                                                                  (D M
Total capital expenditure                                                                            n
1990 - N276.39; 1991 - N643.28 mill



- 48 -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA                    Annex 3
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT                  Page 1 of 6
State Roads Maintenance Cost Recovery
Introduction
1. Desirable costs for recurrent (routine) maintenance of state roads range from about
N5,800 1/ per km for the lower vo!ume unpaved roads (ADT < 300 vpd) to about
N 15,800 per km for the higher volume (ADT > 1500 vpd) asphalt concrete roads. When
the annualized costs for periodic maintenance are also added, total maintenance costs
(excluding rehabilitation and construction) range from N 14,800 to N51,000 per km. On this
basis, annual desirable maintenance costs for the states of Kano/Jigawa is N38.2 million, of
which recurrent costs constitute N 13.1 million. In comparison, total road transport related
revenue at the state level amounts to N4.96 million in Kano/Jigawa states. Tables I and 2
show respectively a summary of the maintenance costs and total maintenance costs in relation
to the total transport related revenue generated in Kano/Jigawa states.
2. As seen from the tables, the revenues amount to only 13% of the total maintenance costs
or 38% of recurrent maintenance costs on state roads in Kano/Jigawa. The roads amount to
2,630 km in all, of which nearly 1,200 kn are managed by the state government, and which
would require an additional N24 million in recurrent and N60 million in periodic
maintenance costs.
Transport Related Revenues
3. Table 3 shows typical rates of road user charges and fees currently levied by the states in
Nigeria. Average yearly amounts collected by the states vary from a maximum of N26
million for Lagos to a low of about N 1.0 million for Benue. The main source of revenue is
by far the motor vehicle license fees which represent about 65% of all revenue, followed by
driver's license fees amounting to about 15%. The total revenue collected by all states in
Nigeria amounted to N82.9 million in 1988 and N84.8 million in 1990.
Cost RecoveY
4. Table 4 shows a summary of recurrent and total maintenance expenditure required to keep
the entire state road network in Nigeria in good condition. Recurrent maintenance costs
amount to N213 million while total maintenance costs, including periodic maintenance but
excluding rehabilitation and construction costs, amount to N537 million. In comparison, the
total revenue collected at the state level in 1990 (N84.8 million) represents only 40% of the
recurrent maintenance requirement, and only 16% of the total maintenance requirement. To
recover at least the recurrent maintenance costs at the state level, the states should be required
to increase on average the road user charges and fees by a factor of 2.5. Considering the
rates have not changed significantly in most states since 1986, this increase would be regarded
reasonable in light of the generally high inflation rate in the country.
1/ Figures :n this Annex assume US$1.00 = N10.00



- 49 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 6
5. In the long run, the full cost of recurrent and periodic maintenance needs to be recovered
from road users. This can be done more efficiently by including a pump sales tax on fuel to
generate the bulk of the revenues necessary for highway maintenance needs (see Annex 3.5).



- 50 -
Annex  4
Page 3 oa 
Table 1: Recurrent Road Maintenance Costs
State Roads                   Unit Cost    Kano/Jigawa
(N/km)         (kn)
AC Paved
ADT < 1500                    11,355         622
> 1500                  15,872
SD Paved
ADT < 1500                    9,589          201
> 1500                  13,222
Unpaved
ADT < 300                     5,799          272
> 300                   8,402          298
Subtotal                                      1,393
Annual Routine                                13.07
Maintenance Costs (Nm)
1990 Road Transport Revenue                   4.96
Rer-nue/Total Costs (%)                        38
Source: LBI Inc., Road User Charges and Axle Load Study, Phase One Report, November
1991.



- 51 -                             Annex 34
Page 4 of 6
Table 2: Total (Recurrent and Periodic) Road Maintenance Costs
State Roads                     Unit Cost    Kano/Jigaw
(N/km)          a
(ki)
AC Paved
ADT < 1500                      34,715         622
> 1500                    50,912
SD Paved
ADT < 1500                      29,989         201
> 1500                    43,822
Unpaved
ADT < 300                       14,799         272
> 300                     21,902          298
Subtotal                                        1,393
Annual Total                                    38.17
Maintenance Costs (Nm)
1990 Road Transport Revenue                     4.96
RevenuefTotal Costs (%)                          13
Source: LBI Inc., Road User Charges and Axle Load Study, Phase One Report,
November 1991.



- 52 -
Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 6
Table 3: Rates of Road Transport Related State Taxes
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSES FEES:
Other than commercial                                                    Naira/Year
1000 kg                                                                     50
1500 kg                                                                     90
2000 kg                                                                     140
Commercial
1000 kg                                                                     72
5000 kg                                                                     205
8000 kg                                                                     256
12000 kg                                                                  314
25000 kg                                                                  578
40000 kg                                                                  796
Annual Hackney payable by owner
Taxi                                                                        150
Danfo                                                                       125
Molue                                                                       150
911 Buses                                                                   300
Trailers                                                                    250
Tankers                                                                     250
Various Fees
Registration of Motor Vehicle                                                 5
Change of Ownership                                                           5
Driver's License Professional                                                10
Private                                                         5
Examination of Commercial Vehicles                                            5
(every 6 months)
Source: LBI Inc., Road User Charges and Axle Load Study, Phase one Report,
November 1991.



- 53 -
Annex 3-4
Page 6 of 6
Table 4: Maintenance Costs for State Road Network
Length   Recurrent Maintenance   Rec+Periodic Maintenance
State Roads          (km)   (N/kn)    Total (Nm)    (N/km)   Total (Nm)
AC Paved
ADT < 1500           1,536       11,355     17.44    34,715           53.32
> 1500           171       15,872       2.71    50,912           8.71
SD Paved
ADT < 1500          9,133         9,589     87.58    20,989          191.69
> 1500         1,015       13,222      13.42    43,822          44.48
Unpaved
ADT < 300           4,580         5,799     26.56    14,799           67.78
> 300          7,799        8,402      65.53    21,902         170.81
Total                                      213.24                    536.79



- 54 -
Annex 3-5
Page I of 9
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Establishment of a State Road Maintenance Fund.
Outline of a Proposal.
Possible Means to Finance Road Maintenance.
1. A major problem in many developing countries, where resources are chronically
restricted, is to find a means for providing assured road maintenance funds that are consistent
with the needs of the network and of traffic. Unlike water supply or electricity, where the
effects of insufficient resources are quicldy obvious and provoke reactions from the
customers, road maintenance funds can be reduced below the necessary levels for several
years with very little obvious effect. However, the hidden deterioration that takes place is real
and expensive, and may take years to repair.
2. The temptation to economize on road maintenance funding in order to use scarce
resources elsewhere has been difficult to resist. Recent investigations have shown, however,
that long term deterioration of a road network has very serious effects on both the expenditure
of the roads authority, and on the whole economy of a country 2I. This argument has
resulted in a greater emphasis on maintenance in many countries, with a diversion of funds
into maintenance and away from new construction. Even so, there is always the possibility
that short term economic difficulties will produce significant variations in the year-by-year
levels of road maintenance finding, which is quite incompatible with sensible toad
maintenance management and planning. In order to avoid this effect, a number of countries
have experimented with various means to ensure steady road maintenance funding, unaffected
by short term economic factors. Early atempts involved Road Funds, but without their own
independent sources of finance, so that they were topped up from general revenue, but with
expenditure under the control of the roads authority, subject to general policy guidelines. This
arrangement was not always successful. Although it does provide a cushion against short term
variations in funding, finance Ministries have tended, in a number of countries, to use any
decline in the economy as a valid reason to raid the Fund in order to
,/
2/ A regime of sound road maintenance, as compared with ineffective maintenance which
results in road failure, brings benefits to the roads authority because roads do not have to be
reconstructed at much higher costs than maintenance. Taking average sub-Saharan Africa
conditions and costs over a network, a regime of correct maintenance wIll save the roads
authority about US$3,500 per Im per year as compared with inadequate maintenance that
involves eventual pavement reconstruction. Benefits to the road users in the shape of lower
vehicle operating costs would average about US$5,000 per km per year for a road carrying a
mixed traffic flow of about 200 vpd. lhis amount will increase pro rata with an increase in
traffic. ("Road Deterioration in Sub-Saharan Africa", Mason and Ibriscutt, World Bank
Paper, 1989)



- 55 -
Annex 3-S
Page 2 of_4
bolster general revenue, or to cease contributing to the Fund on the grounds that it already
holds unexpended cash.
3. Where road maintenance is carried out by regional or local government, rather than by
central government, it has been found that satisfactory operation has been associated with:
(a)    having separate organizations with specific responsibilities for roads, and with
sufficient autonomy to plan and cooperate with local communities;
(b)    a program not affected by variations in external funding;
(c)    maximum participation of other interested branches of government and of local
communities at the early stages; and
(d)   long-term arrangements for maintenance agreed in advance, through established
local institutions who may match funds to cover improvement, rehabilitation and
maintenance costs.
The role of central government then reduces to set..ng genera! policies for construction and
maintenance standards, as well as regulations covering employment of labor, contract awards
and procurement and payments JI. Following these principles, it seems that a viable means
to maintain state road networks should involve a means for a dedicated state roads authority to
collect revenue from road users, and to keep it separate from general government revenue
under the control of the roads authority itself.
Fuel Ta and  tr Possible Sources of Revenue.
4. There are in Nigeria three tiers of government concerned with road maintenance, i.e., the
Federal government for major national routes, State governments for state roads, and several
hundred local governments for the tertiary and rural road networks. Any proposal to provide
a means for one or more of these government levels to collect and retain a suitable revenue
for maintenance of their roads must take into account that the revenue should ideally:
(a)    come mainly from road users, and be related in some way to the damaging effect
they have on the network;
(b)    allow automatically for inflation; and
(c)    have low coUlection costs compared with its yield.
/ "Rural Roads in Sub-Saharan Africa: Lessons from World Bank Experienance" by John
Riverson et al, World Bank, 1991, paras 7.11 through 7.14.



- 56 -
Annex 3-5
Paee 3 of 9
The only possible source of revenue which would fulfill all these conditions would be a
percentage surcharge on a consumable associated with road use, and the obvious choice is
motor fuel, assuming that its price is changed in line with general price changes, and is not
artifically fixed 4/. Import duty and motor vehicle tax do not vary automatically with
variations in prices, and they do not relate at all to tne use made of the road network. Road
tolls also do not vary automatically with price changes, are difficult to set up and administer,
and collection costs are usually a large proportion of revenue, even if diversion of tolls is not
a major factor.
Estimates of Maintenance Costs and Revenue Yields.
5. The state road network in Nigeria is made up of 30,548km (10,434km paved), of which
about 19,000km carry less than 300 vpd and 15,800km less than 150 vpd E/. Assuming
these roads are already in good condition with rehabilitation completed, and taking
account of traffic variations, a reasonable regime of routine and periodic maintenance would
be as follows: 6/
Routine Maintenance, to include moderate amounts
of patching on paved roads and pothole repairs on
unpaved roads, at per km cost between US$1350 for
heavily trafficked paved roads to US$600 for unpaved
roads with light traffic, say,
30,548km @ US$800 per km p.a . .........................            US$ 24.4 mn
Resgavylling4 10,000km every 5 years and 10,000km
every 10 years @ US$10,000 per km, annual cost  ........            US$ 30.0 mn
Resealing1, 8,000 km every 7 years and 2,434 km
every 12 years @ US$20,000 per kn, annual cost  .........           US$ 26.9 mn
Total cost per year:                                           US$ 81.3 mn
_/ A similar system has been introduced in Brazil in order to provide states and municipalities
with a reliable source of income for road maintenance. See 'Brazil: Medium Term Strategy
Paper for the Infrastructure Sectors", Volume 2, para 9 (World Bank internal report, March
1991)
E/ Source: FHD Federal Trunk Road Study, 1989.
6/ Unit costs are derived from "Policy Implications for a Desirable Road Maintenance
Program in Nigeria" by Anil S. Bhandari; paper presented at the Road Maintenance Policy
Seminar in Lagos in September 1991.



- 57 -
Annex 3-5
Pag-e 4 of 9
The consumption of motor fuel in 1989 (the latest year for which data are available) was
about 4.75 million tonnes, of which about 30% was diesel and automotive gas oil (AGO)
11. Hence a surcharge of US$S81.3/4.75 or US$17.12 per tonne (equivalent to about
UScents 1.6 per litre) on sales of petrol and diesel motor fuel would produce revenue to cover
all routine and periodic maintenance costs for the state road network. At the current rate of
exchange of about N1O to US$1.00, this represents 16 kobo per litre, or about 23% of the
present domestic selling price. If regravelling and resealing are considered as capital
expenditure, then the surcharge to cover routine maintenance costs only would be about 5
kobo, or about 7% of the domestic selling price. If the view is taken that it would be
appropriate to cover only routine maintenance costs in this way, it must be remembered that
periodic maintenance costs for re=ravelling and resealing must still be met, and that
routine maintenance alone will not be sufficient to keep the state road network in good
condition.
2/ Annual Report and Statement of Accounts of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Year ended
31st December 1989, Table 3.18.



- 58 -
Annex 3-5
Page 5 of 9
6.A similar calculation can be made for federal and rural roads as follows:
Estimation of Motor Fuel Surchargg
(a)       Federal Roads
28,570 km; 22,760 km (80%) paved
5,000 km carry less than 300 vpd
Routine Maintnance , including patching up to 2% of paved roads;
USS million
22,760 km a US$1,350 per km/year                  30.7
5,810 km @ US$1,000 per km/year                  5.8
Periodic Maintenana
(i) Resealing
22,760 km @ US$20,000 per km every 7 years
(annual cost)                                 65.0
(ii)  grevelling
5,810 km @ US$20,000 per km every 7 years
(annual cost)                                 14.5
(iii) Pavement Strengthening
22,760 km a US$64,000 per km e.o.
resealing cost every 20 years (annual cost)   72.8
Total Annual Cost                        188.8
Surcharge = 188.8/4.75 = US$39.75 per ton (approx. 36 kobo/liter or US$0.14/gal)
For routine maintenance only = 36.5/4.75 = US$7.68 per ton (7 kobo/liter or US$0.03/gal)



- 59 -
Annex 3-5
Page 6 of 9
(b)        Rural Roads
85,000 km; 2% (say 2,000 km) paved
2,000 km carry more than 150 vpd
53,000 km carry between 25 and 150 vpd
30,000 km carry less than 25 vpd
Routine Maintenance
US$ mlli9s
2,000 km @ US$600 per km/year                      1.2
83,000 km @ US$250 per km/year                    20.8
SpQot BRgavelling
53,000 km @ US$3,500 per km every 6 years,
annual cost                                       30.9
(roads carrying less than 25 vpd to
be patched only under routine maintenance)
Partial Resealin
2,000 km @ US$10,000 every 15 years, annual cost   1.3
Total Annual Cost                               54.2
Surcharge = 54.2/4.75 = US$11.4 per ton (approx. 10 kobo per liter).
For routine maintenance only = 22,0/4.75 = US$4.6 per ton (4 kobo per liter)
Application t the Total Road Network.
7.Similar estimates for the whole national network of Federal, state and rural roads give the
following figures:



- 60 -
Annex 3-5
Page 7 of 9
Motor Fuel Surcharge Required to cover Road Maintenance:
(Kobo per Litre, rounded)
Routine   Periodic I|_t
Federal Roads             7         29       36
State Roads               5         ' 1      16
Rural Roads               4         6        10
Total                  16        46       62
% of Domestic Price       23        66       89
(currently 70 kobo/liter)                  _
8. It can be argued that there should be different rates of surcharge for petrol and diesel. On
the one hand, diesel powered vehicles tend to be heavier that those powered by petrol and
hence cause more damage to the road pavement. They also cover a greater distance per unit
of fuel consumed than petrol driven vehicles of similar size and weight, and both these factors
would argue a higher surcharge for diesel powered vehicles if payment is to relate to road
costs for different vehicle types. On the other hand, diesel powered vehicles cause less
environmental pollution than those powered by petrol, which would warrant a lower rate for
diesel fuel. In practice, the decision on relative rates would probably best be taken according
to whether the policy is to encourage greater consumption of one or the other motor fuel. For
the sake of simplicity, it would be reasonable to apply the same rate throughout, as has been
done in these estimates.
9. In practice, road maintenance costs and motor fuel sales may vary between states to the
extent that different rates of surcharge in adjoining states would be warranted. It would be
desirable to avoid, or at least minimize, such differences as much as possible in order to
prevent distortion of the local market in motor fuel. or the same reason, agreement betwevn
states on timing the start of a motor fuel surcharge should be sought. Revenue from the
surcharge could most conveniently be collected by the motor fuel supplier or suppliers, and
should be paid by them directly into a dedicated account in a commercial bank, to be used by
the state roads authority for specified purposes for which the authority would be accountable.
Recommendation for a State Road Maintenance Fund.
10. It is recommended that the state governments participating in the project should seek
authority to impose a motor fuel surcharge, in the form of a sales tax as an extension to
existing legislation, sufficient initially to cover routine maintenance of state roads only. The
amount of this tax (5 kobo/liter, or about 7% of cost) would not be sufficient to distort local
sales. In the light of experience with this Sales Tax, consideration should be given to raising
revenue for state road periodic maintenance and possibly rural road routine and periodic
maintenance in due course.



- 61 -
Annex 3-5
Page 8 of-9
I 1. The proceeds of the state sales tax on petrol and diesel motor fuel would be deposited in a
commercial bank account to constitute the State Road Maintenance Fund (SRMF). The
resources of the SRMF would be used to finance maintenance of state roads in accordance
with agreed policies and standards, and the state road authority would be accountable for the
correct use of the SRMF and for the quality of the work done.
12. The attached table shows fuel prices in Nigeria and a number of other countries. Sale
prices in Nigeria are among the lowest in the world. The pump price of gasoline is presently
US$0.07/liter and of diesel US$0.055/liter, using the official exchange rate (at the parallel
exchange rate, gasoline and diesel price would be about US$0.05/liter and US$0.04/liter
respectively). Selling prices in neighboring countries to Nigeria are several times greater,
thus inducing an illegal flow of fuel to these countries. It seems appropriate to conclude that
the price increases recommended in this Annex are not only possible but economically
justified.



-  62  -                                        Annex 3-5
Page 9 of 9
Fbel Prm in Afa in USS Cents per Liter
Countrlv                                                               2Diee                      _GAW_line
Cot. d'lvoire                                                            115                            124
Ceral African Republic                                                    99                            133
Chad                                                                      97                            105
Burkina Fuo                                                               84                            103
Rawanda(8S ofO                                                            79                             81
Senegal                                                                   74                            119
Mati                                                                      74                            112
Zaire(Bukavu);kinshasa:-25 %                                              73                             81
Gabon                                                                     71                            118
Congo(Brazaville)                                                         71                            105
Niger                                                                     68                            94
Togo                                                                      66                             81
Guinea                                                                    61                            67
Botwana                                                                   61                            68
Burundi                                                                   61                            63
Cameroun                                                                  58                             68
Malawi                                                                    56                             64
Uganda                                                                    55                            69
Mauritani                                                                 53                             86
Gambia                                                                    52                             73
Benin                                                                     48                            63
Morocco                                                                   45                             82
Sirra-Leonr                                                               43                             45
Ghana                                                                     43                             43
Namibia                                                                   41                             46
Swaziland                                                                 41                             46
Cape Verde                                                                40                             68
Djibouti                                                                  38                            77
Zimbabwe                                                                  37                            68
Kenya                                                                     37                             53
Tunisia                                                                   33                             58
Moumbique                                                                 26                             74
Madgacar                                                                  25                             43
Tanzania                                                                   25                            42
Gambia                                                                     24                            40
Somalia                                                                    15                            21
Ethopia                                                                    14                            27
Egypt                                                                       7                            29
Sudan                                                                       6                             7
Algeria                                                                    4                             15
Nigeria                                                                    4                              5
Italy(a, of 9.16.91)                                                      95                            124
Gant Bditain( of 9.16.91)                                                  82                            94
Germany                                                                   68                             93
Frae(a of 9.16.91)                                                        64                             99
USA'                                                                      32                             29
Saudi Arabia                                                                2                            15
Source: Metachies, Gedasd, P1aning, Progamming Ad Fumacing of Roads Maintenance and Rehabilitation in Sub-Sahaan
Africa. Deutsche Geelbchaft Ar Technisbe Zus mareit (GMZ GanbH gS, Verkehr, Transport Dusseb, 25 November
1991.
iSource: Appraial team.



- 63 -
Annex 4-1
Page I of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Design SItnda
1.    New construction in Nigeria follows the Federal Highway Department (FHD) design
standards manual. These standards are based on the U.S. AASHTO standards and are
acceptable. Relatively little in the way of new contracts for construction on new alignments
will be undertaken under MSRP.
2.    In Nigeria, asphalt concrete overlays are the standard method of applying
strengthening courses to bituminous surfaced roads. The deteriorated state of the roads often
requires extensive rehabilitation or patching before the overlay is applied. In the past, the
overlay thickness applied was often 40 to 50mm, which was frequently insufficient to carry
the heavily overloaded axles found in Nigeria. The Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU)
established under the Sixth Highway Project has developed a methodology for the Nigerian
environment for dimensioning overlays, which will be applied in the project. All pavement
design under the project will take into account the recent increase in legal axle local limit
from 10 to 11.5 tons/axle, as well as a survey of actual vehicle loading. All road designs
carried out under the project will take into account the recommendations from the MSRP
Environmental Assessment Study (Annex 4-10).
3.    All works, including reconstruction and rehabilitation, will be to the standards of
FHD design manual, modified for rehabilitatioL projects to lower standards as follows:
(a)    Cross Sectionso
(i)    Carriage way width   =    6.70m
(ii)   Shoulder width      =     1.50m each
Overall road width    =   9.70m
(b)    New pipe culverts: minimum diameter of 900mm.
(c)    Existing culverts to be extended in their present form.
(d)    Where soil is subject to erosion, a paved side ditch will be incorporated, as
well as other measures indicated by the environmental assessment to prevent
erosion.
(e)    Low lying sections of road will be raised as necessary with selected fill
materials.
(f)    Sub-base and base course will be of naturally occurring material, where
appropriate.



- 64 -
Annex 4-1
Pag-e 2 of 2
(g)   Double bituminous surface treatment will be applied where technically and
economically justified.
(h)   Where a reasonable length of existing pavement is in good condition only
single bituminous surface treatment will be required.



- 65 -
Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Manpower Development
Background
1.    The ability of SMOWTs to plan and implement effective road maintenance and
rehabilitation has traditionally been very weak. This has often been due to a variety of factors
such as insufficient operating budgets, excess numbers of marginally qualified staff, lack of
tools and equipment, and poor management of available resources. While sometimes
recognizing these institutional constraints, SMOWTs have been ineffective in improving their
capacity to maintain the state road networks with the result that many state road systems are
deteriorating at a faster rate than they are being maintained. Now, after several decades of
pocr management and widespread road deterioration, both the Federal and State Governments
are recognizing the need to make drastic changes in the way they carry out road maintenance
operations. After an extensive review of various alternative strategies, it has been decided to
transfer the major portion of road maintenance works from force account operations carried
out by the SMOWTs to private contractors. To this end, SMOWT staff in the three pilot
states will oversee works carried out by local contractors. By being relieved from the
management of force account operations, the SMOWTs will be able to concentrate on
planning, design, and supervision of contracts, while the contractors will be able to carry out
their responsibilities without the typical bureaucratic constraints that had previously plagued
the SMOWTs.
Manpower Development
2.    Due to the nature of the proposed road maintenance program, manpower development
will take on a limited role in that (i) only small numbers of SMOWT personnel will require
training in contract management, and (ii) contractors will be motivated to acquire necessary
skills by competitive means within the labor market. This does not preclude, however, the
need to provide a forum for Government agencies and the construction industry to exchange
ideas, educate the workforce, and provide general channels of communication between all
parties in the sector. To address this need, the Government wishes to continue and expand
the use of Technology Transfer Centers initiated under the ongoing Highway Sector Loan (see
Annex 4-3). In order to achieve these objectives, the project will finance the following
activities:
(a)    Training for SMOWT Staff. Selected senior and mid-level SMOWT staff
from the pilot states will have need to attend various international workshops,
saminars, conferences and/or study tours during the project implementation
period. In this regard, $150,000 will be allocated to each of the SMOWTs
for a total of $450,000 for this category of training. Participation in this
component will be effected according to an annual training plan to be prepared
in advance by each SMOWT and submitted to the Bank for review and non-
objection prior to implementation. The training plan will identify:
(i)   each participant including job tide, and length of service;



- 66 -
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 3
(ii)   the training venue, including the purpose and/or training topics, and
the duration of training; and
(iii)   a breakdown of travel, tuition, and living costs.
The purpose of the above training plan is to establish a standard and
acceptable procedure for manpower development that will maximize the use of
avaDable funds, and minimize ad hoc participation without proper planning.
The foreign exchange available for this component is to be accounted for on
an actual cost basis and is not to be used to pay Nigerian Government
Estacode allowances. In conformity with the Bank's Articles concerning
payment for actual costs, while at the same time recognizing the Estacode
requirements, the project wDl finance onlQ actual costs of travel, tuition and
living expenses, with any difference between actual costs and Estacode
allowances being paid by Government.
(b)   Technolog Transfer Cer. Under the ongoing Highway Sector Loan,
contacts were established between FMWH and the National Highway Institute
(NHI) of the U.S. Federal Highway Administration (FHA). NHI operates a
network of technology transfer centers (called T-Square Centers) throughout
the United States and has extensive experience in the dissemination of road
sector information. With the objective of setting up similar types of centers in
Nigeria, the Government decided to establish a Technology Transfer Center
within FMWH which would then form the basis for establishing similar
centers at the state level (see Annex 4-3). Under the proposed MSRP, work
begun under the Highway Sector Loan will be intensified to provide capacity
at the state level to meet the technology needs of SMOWTs and the
construction industry. In this regard, the project will finance:
(i)   local costs and the provision of facilities to administer the extension
program to the three pilot states (2.5 million naira to be provided
from counterpart funds over a five year period),
(ii)   the cost of purchasing and/or reproducing the various software and
training materials to be provided by NHI and other sources ($60,000
foreign exchange and 450,000 naira for local printing), and
(ii)  local costs to conduct seminars and workshops for SMOWT personnel
and contractors over a five-year period (1.5 million naira to be
provided from counterpart funds), and
(iv)   the costs of establishing a small Environmental Assessment and
Monitoring Unit for the FMWH (US$30,000).
In order to implement the above program, FMWH and the pilot states will
prepare a plan for staffing and provision of facilities for the Technology



- 67 -
Annex 4-2
Page 3 f 3
Transfer Centers to be ready for Bank review by the time of project
negotiations. The plan will follow the staffing guidelines already established
under the Highway Sector Loan (see Annex 4-3) and is to include a
description of facilities and equipment required along with a proposed annual
budget for each of the eight years of project implementation. In addition, the
plan will indicate the training requirements of SMOWT personnel and the
proposed activities of the Centers (i.e. workshops, seminars, production of
materials, etc.).



- 68 -
Annex 4-3
Page I of 3
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Technology Transfer Centers
Introduction
1.    The concept of establishing technology transfer centers throughout Africa was
endorsed at the 18th World Road Congress sponsored by the Permanent International
Association of Road Congresses (PIARC) during their meeting in Brussels in 1987.
Establishing centers in Nigeria would be the first step in reaching the PIARC goal. The long
range goal is to establish an Africa Technology Transfer Center supported by member centers
provided within each country. Ultimately Nigeria, due to its pioneering initiative, would
become the nucleus for the technology transfer program within the continent of Africa.
2.    In essence, technology transfer addresses not only technical skills but also managerial
and supervision aspects as relevant and appropriate to the Nigerian context. This consultancy
will be provided by the FHD under the Highway Sector Loan.
Consultancv Assignment
3.    The main objective of this part of the consultancy assigmnent is to assist the Federal
Highways Departnent (FHD) to establish a network of Technology Transfer Centers (1TCs)
modeled after similar centers successfully established in more developed countries. The main
TTC, which could be established in Lagos directly under FHD, would include direct linkage
with a major TTC center abroad, such as the United States Federal Highway Administration
(FHWA). This linkage would include access to several hundred training courses, training
films, student textbooks, and user manuals. FHD will have the capability of sending
instructors to the United States National Highway Institute (NHI) for the purpose of taking the
training and then transferring the entire training course to Nigeria. Instructors would be
Nigerian highway engineers from FHD, if available, or hired engineers. Alternatively,
engineers from the United States or elsewhere may come to Nigeria to provide the training.
4.    In addition to increasing the technical abilities of FHD, the technology is to be shared
by the Highways officials in the Nigerian States. At first, three pilot state highway TTCs,
will be established as part of the MSRP. The initial state centers will be served by the
primary NTC operating within the FHD. The primary center will provide services to the
FHD field offices.
5.    The objectives of the Nigerian TTC system are to:
*     Establish a mechanism for transferring highway technology from the United
States and other countries to Nigerian transportation officials.
*     Encourage the use of innovative, cost-effective technology within Nigeria.
*     Provide linkages to receive technology from transfer systems operating in
other parts of the world (such as Pan American Institute of Highways, Canada
and China).



- 69 -
Annex 4-3
Page 2 of 3
*     Demonstrate new technology so that it can be quickly used within Nigeria.
*     Determine highway training needs within Nigeria and provide training to FHD
and State employees.
*     Synthesize the successful application of new technology in one center so that it
can be used by other centers.
*     Establish a TTC within the FHD. The minimum staffing should include one
full-time experienced engineer (center director), one full-time secretary and
two well-trained highway technicians.
*     Establish two pilot TTCs in the States participating in the MSRP: Jigawa and
Kano. The minimum staffing should include one full-time experience
engineer (center director) and a full-time secretary. In addition to operating
the center, this staff will also be available to assist the MSRP State
Coordinator.
*     New TTC center directors shall be provided training (one month) in the NHI
of the U.S. FHWA and selected state highway departments in the U.S.
*     The training currently provided by the FHD maintenance training centers at
Badagry, Kaduna and Ugneki is critical to the maintenance of Nigerian
highways and to the success of the MSRP. The immediate task of the
Nigerian TTCs should be to provide high quality training materials and visual
aids to the 1,200 students trained each year.
-     Locate and distribute technical data and information throughout Nigeria.
3     Publish quarterly a newsletter informing federal and state transportation
officials of new and existing technology available to Nigeria.
*     Maintain mailing lists of transportation officials.
*     Conduct at least six semirars each year.
*     Provide technology transfer materials.
*     Perform a yearly self-evaluation and prepare annual report.
*     Complete technical development and demonstration projects.
*     Provide technological and training support to ensure that road projects do not
cause unnecessary environmental or social damage, and support the
implementation of environmental impact assessments of road projects.
*     Establish a NC advisory committee.



- 70 -
Annex 4-3
Pagye 3 of 3
Timetable
6.    The timing for implementing the TTCs will be as follows:
Action
1)    Signature of Consultancy Contract, Month 00.
2)    Outline plan of action for TTCs, Months 00-04.
3)    Establish ITCs, give technical support and complete all training under TTCs,
Months 05-14.
4)    Evaluate TTCs and develop policy for long-term sustainability, Months 15-22.
5)    Produce Draft Final Report, Month 23.
6)    Produce Final Report, Month 24.
Report
7.    The following reports will be produced for FMWH and World Bank information.
TMe World Bank will be supplied with four copies.
(a)    An Inception Report three months after contract signature and Progress
Reports at three-month intervals commencing at Month 06; and
(b)    A Final Report describing the TTC information system and training
conducted.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Table 1. MULTISTATE ROADS PROGRAM
Detailed Cost Table
NAIRA
Base Costs                                  Base Costs in US$
1993   199.4  1995    1996   1997  Total         1993  1994  1995   1996  1997 Total
..........  .   ...................................................  --- ---- -- --- -----------------
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
........... ............. .
A. JIGAWA STATE
CIVIL WORKS             91.62   82.80   77.94  170.10  108.54 531.00       5.09   4.60  4.33  9.45  6.03 29.50
EWUIPMENT 9 VEHICLES     3.60   3.60   0.00    0.00   0.00   7.20          0.20  0.20  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.40
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE     9.00   9.00   9.00   9.00   9.00  45.00           0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50  0.50   2.50
TRAINING                 1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26   6.30       0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.35
.o.. .. ....... .......8. ..... .  ....... ... .... 0.3 1.8  5.37  4.90  10.02  6.60  32.7
Sub-Totaltt             105.48  96.66  88.20  180.36  118.80 589.50         5.86   5.37  4.90  10.02  6.60 32.75
....-                          -        -- - -    ------   ------   ------   ------ .  ------
Totat INVESTlENT COSTS         105.48  96.66  88.20  180.36  118.80 589.50         5.86   5.37  4.90  10.02  6.60  32.75
IZZ= a=----= ------= ======= ======= =======        === ====== ====== ====== ,===== ======
Totat                       15.48  96.66  88.20  180.36  118.80 589.50          5.86  5.37  4.90  10.02  6.60 32.75
Values scaled by 1000.0 4/29/1992  17:20
I0             I



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Table 1. MULTISTATE ROADS PROGRAH
Detailed Cost Table
NAIRA
Totals Including Contingencies          Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                                 USS                                      USS
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   Total       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997 Totat      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.... ............
A. JIGAUA STATE
CIVIL WORKS             103.68  104.12  109.86  264.36  185.70  767.72       5.76   5.43   5.30  12.01   7.95  36.46       27.03    5.78    3.65   36.46
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES      4.06    4.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57       0.23   0.24   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.46        0.34    0.05    0.07    0.46
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE     10.21   11.37   12.73   14.04   15.45   63.80       0.57   0.59   0.61   0.64   0.66   3.07        2.27    0.68    0.12    3.07
TRAINING                  1.43    1.60    1.79    1.97   2.17   8.95         0.08   0.08   0.09   0.09   0.09   0.43        0.32    0.11    0.00    0.43
S a11.39  121.59  124.38  280.37  2.32.. 849.05       6.63   6.35--    6.00  12.73   8.71  40.42   29.96    6.63    3.84   40.
Sub-Totat                119.39  121.59  124.38  280.37  203.32  849.05       6.63   6.35   6.00  12.73  8.71  40.42        29.96    6.63    3.84   40.42
3    -------        -------   -  ...      -     .. . ..  ..                     -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          119.39  121.59  124.38  280.37  203.32  849.05       6.63   6.35   6.00  12.73   8.71  40.42       29.96    6.63    3.84   40.42
.========== MM ==I===== ===== == ======= =======    ====== ====== ====== ====== ====== ======    ======= ======= ======= =======
Total                        119.39  121.59  124.38  280.37  203.32 8.9.05        6.63   6.35   6.00  12.73   8.71 40.42        29.96    6.63    3.84   40.42
            S  2=== - -- - - - -- -- - -- -=--- - - - - -=--- -=---- - --.- -
Values scaled by 1000.0  4/29/1992  17:20
o,i 
Fb 



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST NUlTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Tabte 2. KANO STATE ROAD PROGRAM
Detailed Cost Table
NAIRA
Base Costs                                  Base Costs In US$
1993    1994   1995    1996    1997  Total       1993  1994  1995  1996  1997 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. KANO STATE
CIVIL WORKS            10044  142.02  185.94  120.24   99.90  648.54       5.58   7.89  10.33  6.68   5.55  36.03
EWUIPNENT & VEHICLES     3.60    3.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.20      0.20   0.20   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.40
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    10.80   10.80   10.80   10.80   10.80   54.00      0.60   0.60   0.60   0.60   0.60   3.00
TRAINING                 1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    1.26    6.30      0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07   0.07   0.35
S--1.10  1.68---   198.00  13.30--     111.96  716.04  6.45   8.76  11.00   7.35 -.--  39.
Sub-Total               116.10  157.68  198.00  132.30  111.96  716.04      6.45   8.76  11.00  7.35   6.22  39.78
.............  ......  ........ ... .... .. .. .>... .... ... .. ...... ........ ...... ........ ... ......  ........ _........ ..
Total INVESTNENT COSTS         116.10  127.68  298.00  132.30  111.96  716.04      6.45   8.26  1l.oo   7.35  6.22  39.78
*=es-rs a=ss-- *= ----- -------= -=s    w=.....    c=sses Zzm==- ==-==== a===== =ZXR=w ez====
Total                       116.10  157.68  198.00  132.30  111.96  716.04      6.45   8.76  11.00   7.35   6.22  39.78
Values scaled by 1000.0 4/29/1992 17:20
w
We m
tD  X



FEDERAL REPUBLIC Of NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Table 2. KANO STATE ROAD PROGRAN
Detalted Cost Table
NA IRA
Totals Inctuding Contingencies          Breakdoim of Totals Incl.Cont.
Totals Including Contingencies                                    US                                      USS
1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    Total       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997  Total     F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. KANO STATE
CIVIL UJRKS              113.66   178.59   262.09   186.87   170.92   912.13       6.31   9.32  12.65   8.49   7.32  44.09       32.68    7.00    4.41   44.09
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES       4.06     4.51     0.00      0.00     O.CJ     8.57      0.23   0.24   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.46        0.34    0.05    0.07    0.46
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE      12.26    13.64    15.28    16.85    18.54    76.56       0.68   0.71   0.74   0.77   0.79   3.69        2.73    0.82    0.15    3.69
TRAINING                   1.43     1.60      1.79     1.97     2.17     8.95      0.08   0.08   0.09   0.09  0.09   0.43         0.32    0.11    0.00    0.43
ST l  .... .....4 ... ...833  ....1 2     ......6  ........  .30  10...... ..... ...... .....21. ......   3.0----  7.9.    4.63-  48.6
Sub-TotaC                 131.41   198.33   279.16   205.69   191.63  1006.22       7.30  10.35  13.48   9.34   8.21  48.63       36.07    7.98    4.63   48.68
3222fl2    - - - -   - - -   -  -    --------   - - -     -   -   - -     . -     -        - - -    .     .    .....   . ------   -------....---.
Total INVESTNENT COSTS           131.41   198.33   279.16   205.69   191.63  1006.22       7.30  10.35  13.48   9.34   8.21  48.68       36.07    7.98    4.63   48.68
======an=  S3=Sax= an====== t=========_==     zc===r=zv   =X======= =ZC ====== *===== ====== a=====    ==s==== ==c==== ======= =======
Total                         131.41   198.33   279.16   205.69   191.63  1006.22       7.30  10.35  13.48   9.34   8.21  48.68       36.07    7.98    4.63   48.63
Values scated by 1000.0  4/29/1992  17:21
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(                                                                                     r
Io0



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST NULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Table 3. FEDERAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COORDINATOR
Detaited Cost T!Jble
NAIRA
Totals Including Contingencies
Base Costs            Base Costs In USS         Totals Including Contingencies                            USS
"=3-=X33g==we==33====~ ==3======-m=g                               2aw:==s=~X=-f3323=3    =====-=st==s5==-
93-94  95-97  Total    93-94 95-97 Total               1993      1994 1995-97   Total            1993    1994 1995-97   Total
................ .....   ..................   .......... ......... .... ...... ...   ..... ........ ... ... .... ...... ...
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.......               . . .          . . .          .     .    ...                                                                          .36      .00       .6
A. FIEM                           20.70   0.00  41.40         1.15  0.00  2.30          23.49   26.14    0.00   49.63              1.31     1.36    0.00    2.67
...... ... .. ......    ..... ..... .....    ....... ....... ....... .......    .......                 ... .... ......       .......
Total INVESTNT COSTS                 20.70   0.00  41.40          1.15  0.00  2.30          23.49   26.14    0.00   49.63             1.31      1.36    0.00      2.67
*3s -s**stssre-=     us==== a==sS =-===    =a===== ===3sce a====g= sr2=s3s    ==Wa==== =SC==== t==S==== C=-====
Total                             20.70   0.00  41.40         1.15  0.00  2.30          23.49   26.14    0.00   49.63              1.31    1.36    0.00    2.67
*--st-=r=ss~~~~ 8 s==s==-s=--ws--------------                                               ......          .......=s==sg====s==r=============s=====s====
- Values scaled bV 1000.0  4/29/1992   17:21
-a
LJ
S~~~~~-~ ~



FEDERAL REPUtLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Table 3. FEDERAt TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COORDINATOR
Detailed Cost Table
MAIRA
Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
US$
F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. FISN                         1.97   0.59    0.11    2.67
.......  .......... ............ ....... .........
Total INVESTMENT COSIS             1.97    0.59    0.11    2.67
--- a--==== ---==- = =-=...-
Total                           1.97    0.59    0.11    2.67
Values scalefd bV 1000.0  4/2911992  17:21
as X
4J



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Project Cost Su mary
NAIRA                                  USS                               X Total
~-----------------------------         ---------------------------   X Foreign             Base
Local   Foreign        Total         Local  Foreign    Total         Exchange       Costs
....... ...... .......... .....        ... .................   ...........
A . JIGAVA STATE                          147.37    442.12    589.50             8.19    24.56    32.75             75.00      43.77
B . KANO STATE                            179.01     537.03    716.04            9.94    29.83    39.78             75.00      53.16
C . FNUN                                   10.35      31.05       41.40          0.57       1.72      2.30          75.00       3.07
.. . . .     .. . ..    . _. .... .. . .  -- - - - - - - - - - - -- -     - - -  - -  - - - -  -
Total BASELINE COSTS                      336.73   1010.20   1346.94             18.71    56.12    74.83             75.00    100.00
Physical Contingencies                  33.67    101.02        134.69          1.87      5.61       7.48          75.00      10.00
Price Contingencies                    122.99    300.28    423.26              3.19      6.27       9.46         66.26       12.64
-- - - - -      - -- - - - - - -       ... .... ....  . . . . . . ..      -   - - - - - - - - -
Total PROJECTS COSTS                      493.39   1411.51    1904.90            23.77    68.00    91.77             74.10    122.64
*3332322cs22u2S2=                       =2sss_===         3====   ==2    ==_====== ==
------_-_-__-..---__--..----_-_---___-__-_-____----__--_--_--______----_---_-__-_----____------.--_--__-_.-_----_---
Values Scaled by 1000.0 - 4/29/1992  17:21
-J
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
tD   M
0    1
F.



FEDERAL REPIBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST INLTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Summary Accamat by Project Cpoqronent
RAIRA
Physical          Price
Contingencies    Contingencies
JIGAIIVA   KANO
STATE     STATE    FNUH        Total        X     Amout       X  Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VOIRKS                     531.00   648.54       0.00   1179.54     10.00    117.95   32.42   382.36
8. TECHNICAL ASSISTAMCE
1. FlNU                              0.00      0.00     41.40    41.40      10.00      4.14    9.88      4.09
2. STATES                           51.30    60.30       0.00    111.60     10.00     11.16  31.82    35.51
Stb-total                           51.30     60.30     41.40    153.00     10.00     15.30  25.8       39.60
C. EWIPENIT 2 VEHICLES                7.20      7.20      0.00     14.40     10.00      1.44   9.05       1.30
Total BASELINE COSTS                589.50    716.04     41.40   1346.94     10.00    134.69  31.42    423.26
Physical Contingencies             58.95     71.60      4.14    134.69
Price Contingencies               200.60   218.57       4.09   423.26       9.09    38.48
Total PROJECT COSTS                 849.05   1006.22     49.63   1904.90      9.09    173.17  22.22    423.26                                                          1
Taxes                              80.61     95.56      1.99    178.16      9.09     16.20                                                                          oD
foreign Exchange                  629.26    745.58     36.66   1411.51      9.09    128.32
Values Scaled by 1000.0 4/29/1992 17:21
ODX
o0



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                               Totals Including Contingencies
IAIRA                                                          USS
1993     1994     1995     1996      1997    Total         1993     1994     1995     1996      1997    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
.................... 
A. CIVIL UKIS                       217.34   282.70   371.95   451.23   356.62  1679.85         12.07    14.76    17.95    20.50    15.27    80.55
B. TECHNICAl ASSISTANCE
1. FImmR                          23.49    26.14     0.00      0.00     0.00    49.63         1.31     1.36     0.00      0.00     0.00     2.67
2. STATES                         25.33    28.20    31.59    34.82    38.33   158.27          1.41     1.47      1.52     1.58     1.64     7.63
Sib-Total                            48.82    54.34    31.59    34.82    38.33   207.90          2.71     2.84      1.52     1.58     1.64    10.30
C. EWIPUENT & VEHICLES                8.13     9.02     0.00      0.00     0.00    17.14         0.45     0.47     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.92
sastss=-sasrs=ssarsssassu===w====== ==mz====--sXr=v=s==================w====
Total PROJECT COSTS                 274.29   346.06   403.54   486.06   394.95  1904.90         15.24    18.06    19.48    22.08    16.91    91.77
.....................................................................   .................................................................................... ..................................................... ..................
Values Scaled by 1000.0  4/29/1992  17:21
lD



FEDERAL REPWBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MXUTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
NAIRA
Sumary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                Foreign Exchange
......... ................ ............................. .................................. ........ ............. .. .........
1993     1994      1995      1996      1997    Total               A mount
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
. ..................
A. CIVIL WORKS                    192.06   224.82    263.88   290.34   208.44   1179.54          75.00  884.65
B. TECUNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. FIM                          20.70    20.70       0.00      0.00      0.00    41.40       75.00   31.05
2. STATES                       22.32    22.32      22.32    22.32      22.32    111.60       75.00   83.70
SLbrtotat                          43.02    43.02    22.32    22.32        22.32   153.00        75.00   114.75
C.  EWUIPHENT & VENICLES            7.20      7.20      0.00      0.00      0.00    14.40        75.00    10.80
..................    ................................................... . ........ .................  ................. .................. ..
Total BASELINE COSTS              242.28   275.04    286.20   312.66   230.76  1346.94          75.00  1010.20
Physical Contingencies          24.23     27.50     28.62     31.27    23.08   134.69         75.00   101.02
Price Contingencies              7.78    43.51      88.72    142.13    141.12   423.26        70.94  300.28
Total PROJECT COSTS               274.29   346.06   403.54    486.06   394.95   1904.90         74.10  1411.51
Taxes                           24.79    31.67      38.32     46.36     37.02   178.16        0.00    0.00
Foreign Exchange               203.78   25S.82    298.93    360.24    292.74  1411.51        100.00  1411.51
Values Scsled by 1000.0 4/29/1992  17:21                                                                                                                           co
0 X0
o-h
o -
La



- 81 -
Annex 4-4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA                               Page  11 of 13
...........................
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
..............................
IDA AND GOVERNMENT FINANCING
CUSSI iion)
..............................
GOVERNMENT
OF
Base Costs                                IDA            NIGERIA                TOTAL
..........                    ~~~~~ ~~...    .....                    ..
JIGAWA STATE
............
Civil Works                             22.13                7.38               29.50
Equipment & Vehicles                     0.30                0.10                0.40
Technical Assistane                      1.88                0.63                2.50
Training                                 0.26                0.09                0.35
Si.b total                        24.56                8.19               32.75
KANO STATE
..........
Civil Works                             27.02                9.01               36.03
Equipment & Vehicles                     0.30                0.10                0.40
Technical Assistance                     2.25                0.75                3.00
Training                                 0.26                0.09                0.35
Sub total                         29.84                9.9f               39.78
FI4WH                                    1.73                0.58                2.30
,.....                                  .....               ..... .......
b total                          56.12               18.71               74.63
Physieal Contingenies                    5.61                1.87                7.48
PrIee Contingncies                       6.27                3.19                9.46
......
Total PROJECT COSTS                     68.00               23.77               91.77
a                                       m.
Project Cost Sumory
Category                                 CUSSmilion)
Civil Works                             49.15               16.38               65.53
Equipment & Vehilese                     0.60                0.20                0.80
Technieal Assistane                      4.13                1.38                5.50
STATES
FMWN                                  1.73                0.56                2.30
Training                                 0.53                0.17                0.70
Sub total                         56.12               18.71               74.83
..................... . ....
Physilel Contingelfes                    5.61                1.87                7.8
Pries Contingeniefs                      6.27                3.19                9.46
Totat PROJECT COSTS                     68.00               23.77               91.77
_u                  _mu                uu



- 82 -
Annex 4-4
Page 12 of 13
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
............... ............................
FIRST MULTISTATE RCADS PROJECT
............. ............................................ 
IDA AND GOVERNMENT FINANCING
(USSmiIion)
.................. .....................
Summary Cost per Agency
GOVERNMENT
OF
Base Costs                                   IDA             NIGERIA                  TOTAL
_... ..... .                                 ..             ......                    ...
JIGAWA STATE
I..._.........
Civil Works                                22.13                 7.38                 29.50
Equipment & Vehicles                        0.30                 0.10                  0.40
Technical Assistance                        1.88                 0.63                  2.50
Training                                    0.26                 0.09                  0.35
.....                ......               .... .......
Sub total                           24.56                  8.19                32.75
Priee and Physical Contingeneies            5.40                 2.27                  7.67
Total                               29.96                 10.46                40.42
KANO STATE
..........
Civil Works                                27.02                 9.01                 36.03
Equipmont & Vehicles                        0.30                 0.10                  0.40
Technical Assistance                        2.25                 0.75                  3.00
Training                                    0.26                 0.09                  0.35
,.... ...            ...._.               .....
Sub total                           29.84                  9.95                39.78
Priee and Physical Contingencies            6.24                 2.66                  8.90
Total                               36.07                 12.61                48.68
FNUH                                        1.73                 0.58                  2.30
...                                      .......                   ....
Priee and Physical Contingencies            0.25                 0.13                  0.37
Total                                1.97                  0.70                 2.67
----.-                .....                ...
Total PROJECT COSTS                        68.00                23.77                  1.77
3=33                 3333333



- 83 -
Annex 4-4
Page 13 o f 13
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
............. .................... .. .....
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
IDA AND GOVERNMENT FINANCING
(SDR milion)
..............................
Summary Cost per Agency
GOVERNMENT
OF
Base Costs                                 IDA            NIGERIA                 TOTAL
, ............                                             ........               .....
JIGAWA STATE
............
Civil Works                              16.20                5.40                21.60
Equipment & Vehicles                      0.22                0.07                 0.29
Technical Assistance                      1.37                0.46                 1.83
Training                                  0.19                0.06                 0.26
Sub total                          17.99                6.00                23.98
Price and Physical Contingencies          3.95                1.66                 5.62
Total                              21.94                7.66                29.60
KANO STATE
..........
Civil Works                              19.79                6.60                26.38
Equipment & Vehicles                      0.22                0.07                 0.29
Technical Assistance                      1.65                0.55                 2.20
Training                                  0.19                0.06                 0.26
Sub tote..                         21.85                7.28                29.13
Price and Physical Contingencies          4.57                1.95                 6.52
Total                              26.41                9.23                35.65
FM6.                                      1.26                0.42                 1.68
.... .....                                                   .....                ..... .......
Price and Physical Contingencies          0.18                0.09                 0.27
Total                               1.44                0.51                 1.96
Total PROJECT COSTS                      49.80               17.41                67.20
EZEUZE,             U..       .           UUUU.. ..f



- 84 -
Annex 4-5
Page I of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROAIDS PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Project Oversight
Background
1.    A National State Roads Program (NSRP) is being considered for funding by the
World Bank and other lending institutions. The funds will be used to upgrade, rehabilitate
and maintain state road systems. The First Multistate Roads Project (MSRP) is the initial
phase of the NSRP. The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMWH) has agreed to act
as the Apex Agency for the MSRP. This terms of reference covers the functions of a Federal
Technical Assistance Coordinator( FEDTAC) for the project. The FEDTAC is to help the
FMWH provide an independent assessment of the implementation of the MSRP.
2.    Two states were selected to participate in phase I of the MSRP. These states are
Jigawa and Kano. Each state will hire a Technical Assistance Consultant (TAC) to help them
carry out their project. Each TAC will help their state contract and supervise the road
upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance program funded under the MSRP. Also, the
TACs will train counterparts to do the same functions in the future. The FEDTAC will help
the FMWH monitor and evaluate the performance of all MSRP participants. This includes
each State, each State's TAC and the contractors hired by each state to do the work.
3.    The states of Oyo and Oshun will participate in phase II of the MSRP. Other states
will be added in the future. The FEDTAC will continue to help the MSRP as additional
states are added to the Project. Further, the FEDTAC will help the MSRP identify future
NSRP states.
Objective
4.    The FMWH is the Apex Agency for the MSRP. The consultant hired as the
FMWH's FEDTAC will help the FMWH objectively monitor and evaluate the effectiveness
of the participates in the MSRP. This oversight function is being undertaken to allow timely
improvements and corrections to the project. This process is directed toward enhancing the
success of the MSRP.
Scpe of rlYk
5.    The FEDTAC is principally an advisor to the FMWH. The work comprises:
(a)    Visiting each participating state at periodic intervals and collecting information
to use in evaluating the performance of the State, the TAC and the
contractors.
(b)    Advising the FMWH on the progress and achievements realized in each state
and helping the FMW" identify other states to include in future phases of the
project.



- 85 -
Annex 4.-5
Page 2 of 5
(c)    Preparing reports to document their assessments with recommendations for
improving the MSRP implementation process.
Activities of the FEDTAC
6.    Monthly, the FEDTAC is to visit each State participating in the MSRP. These are to
be random visits. The state, TAC and contractors are to cooperate with the FEDTAC and
make available, for examination, any information requested by the FEDTAC.
(a)    The FEDTAC should provide each state with a list of the types of information
that will be sought during each visit. This list should be made available to the
state before the FEDTAC's first visit. The list should be annotated as needed
during the project. Revised lists should be forwarded to states at intervals.
(b)    The FEDTAC should meet with the TACs and determine how effectively the
TACs are doing their tasks. He should judge the overall caliber and
performance of each TAC's staff member. Included in the review will be an
assessment of the following TAC activities:
-     Supervising construction work and checking work progress.
-     Monitoring the quality and conformance of materials
to specifications by ordering and evaluating appropriate tests and
results.
-     Insuring contractors comply with safety guidelines
and directing contractors through SMOWT to carry out measures
needed to insure safety.
-     Assisting the State plan, execute and monitor routine and periodic
maintenance.
-     Helping the State MOWT to budget road programs to ensure that
adequate funding is included in the State's budget each year.
-     Guiding the State obtain works, services, and prepare bid documents
-     Monitoring and approving accounting and auditing activities
-     Assessing progress on the computerization of road management
information.
-     Training counterpart personnel
Providing technical assistance to LGCs as needed.



- 86 -
Annex 4-5
Paige 3 of 5
Maintaining a Daily diary of events relevant to contracts.
Vetting of submitted as built drawings from the contractors.
Ensuring sound environmental procedures are being applied.
Preparing monthly progress reports for the State which will include
minutes of site meetings with the Contractors.
(c)    During the monthly visits, the FEDTAC will examine road projects and assess
the contractor's performance in:
-     Complying with consultant's reports on quality
and work completion.
Adhering to safety guidelines.
-     Removing and replacing unsuitable materials and work as directed by
the TAC and State.
(d)    During site visits, the FEDTAC should determine how timely the contractors
are being paid. If there are delays, the reasons for the delays should be
established and recommendations made for corrections.
(e)    During monthly visits, the FEDTAC will evaluate how effectively the State's
counterpart personnel are adapting to the techniques being provided under the
technology transfer function of the Consultants. This should be based on:
-      IHow well the TAC is transferring the skills and knowledge identified
in the TAC terms of reference to the facal counterpart staff. This
includes examining the requirements for counterpart certification and
the progress made by counterpart staff towards certification.
-     The adequacy of the TAC/Counterpart facilities, transportation and
budget.
If individual counterpart staff members are capable of learning and
performing their designated job assignments without TAC assistance in
the future.
-     If all counterpart staff positions are filled.
(f)    Review and endorse any proposed replacements or substitutions proposed by
the TAC for counterpart staff. Replacements will be required when
counterparts leave. Substitutions will be necessary when current counterpart
staff prove incapable of performing their designated job assignments.



- 87 -
Annex 45
Page 4 of 
7.    The FEDTAC is to work directly for and report to the FMWH's Deputy Director of
Federal Highways, Planning [DDFH(P)]. The FEDTAC should orally brief the DDFH(P)
weekly and cover:
(a)    His previous week's activities and his plans for coming weeks.
(b)    Critiques and assessments of the State Ministries of W.  and Transport
(SMOWTs), the TACs and contractors as reflected in trip reports. Trip
reports are to form the basis for monthly progress reports.
(c)    The current monthly progress report contents as proposed by the FEDTAC.
(d)    Any activities of the FMWH that impact on the conduct of the MSRP.
8.    The FEDTAC is to prepare monthly progress reports covering his findings and
evaluations of the SMOWTs, TACs and Contractors. Six copies of the report should be
delivered to the FMWH within one week of the end of each month. Also, two copies of the
report should be sent to each participating state. The contents of the monthly reports should
be summarized in quarter!y progress reports. Twelve copies of this report are to be delivered
to the FMWH. Two copies of the report are to be sent to each loan agency participating in
the MSRP.
9.    The FEDTAC may be required to the FMWH in identifying candidate states for an
expanding NSRP. The FEDTAC is to work with FMWH's Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU)
in developing high priority rehabilitation programs for candidate states.
10.   At six month intervals, the FEDTAC will arrange to present a seminar to all
participating states. The purpose of the seminar will be to review the progress being made on
the MSRP. Problems encountered will be identified and discussed. The success of proposed
solutions to problems reviewed. The objective will be to gain an exchange of ideas that can i
implemented increase the opportunity for success in the MSRP.
11.   The expert filling the FEDTAC role is to be a well qualified highway engineer. This
expert should have at least ten years post-Qualification experience. Also, the expert should
have five years of project managing and supervising experience. He should have sufficient
computer skills to use word processors and spreadsheet programs in preparing documents and
reports. Finally, some experience in sub-Sahara Africa will be desirable.
12.   The FEDTAC should be able to handle up to four states concurrently. Once more
states become involved in the MSRP, the FEDTAC should have assistance. Any assistants
should be a highway engineer with at least five years post qualification experience. They
should have some experience managing and supervising projects and be conversant with
computer use. Staffing for the FEDTAC function should be as follows:
a)    One to Four States ............... I FEDTAC & 1 assistant
b)    Four to eight States ............. I FEDTAC & 2 assistants
c)    Eight to twelve States ........... I FEDTAC & 3 assistants
d)    Twelve to sixteen States .     FEDTAC & 4 assistants



- 88 -
Annex 45
Page 5 of 5
13.   The proposed annual budget for this technical assistance to FMWH is $815,000.
Total financing under MSRP-I is estimated at $1.8 million.



- 89 -
Annex 4-6
Page 1 of 4
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
State Roads Management Consultancy
Draft Terms of Reference
0-)bjectives
1.           The main objectives of the technical assistance are to:
(a)    assist in carrying out the planned strengthening of SMOWT road organization;
(b)   ensure efficient and cost-effective management of road maintenance,
rehabilitation, construction, upgrading and planning activities; and
(c)   train managers, engineers and technicians to carry out their various functions,
with the objective that all road and equipment management and operating
functions can be carried out independently by SMOWT from the beginning of
FY93.
2.           The technical assistance will assist and advise SMOWTs in implementing the
road program under MSRP. In particular, the following tasks will be carried out:
(a)   assist the SMOWTs in planning the execution and the monitoring of field
operations for routine and periodic maintenance of roads;
(b)   assist SMOWTs in preparing quarterly and annual estimates of local budget
requirements for implementing the roads program;
(c)   assist in setting up the statements of completed road works for payments from
the Project and Special Accounts;
(d)   assist the SMOWTs by carrying out periodic field inspections of the roads
program;
(e)    assist in the project's procurement of works, services and goods (e.g.
equipment, vehicles, spare parts, bitumen, fuel), including preparation of
bidding documents and subsequent bid evaluations;
(t)    ensure that the proper project accounting and auditing practices are followed
at field units and headquarters for road works, equipment and maintenance,
and related activities;
(g)    computerize the road management information system, including financial,
cost accounting and monitoring functions;



- 90 -
Annex 4-6
Page 2 of 4
(h)    provide on-the-job training to managerial, office and field personnel of
SMOWTs (headquarters and field units);
(i)    provide technical and institutional support to LGCs as agreed with SMOWT;
and
dj)    provide guidance to SMOWTs in selecting trainees, training materials and
courses to be attended by staff.
Technical Assistance Services
3.    The technical assistance team will consist of:
(a)    a highway engineer and team leader (25 months);
(b)    an accounting expert (24 months);
(c)    a pavement engineer (24 months);
(d)    short term visits by specialists (8 months).
The technical assistance team will be engaged full time for two years with periodic visits over
following two years to monitor implementation of program and to run upgrading courses.
Work Description and Oualification
4.    Particular functions and qualifications of the technical assistants are described below:
A. Highwa Engineer and Team Leader
The Team Leader will assist and advise the Director of Civil Engineering of
SMOWTs. In particular, he will:
(a)    update quarterly, and as required, the state roads program and supervise its
implementation;
(b)    analyze the cost and performance data of the road contractors every six
months and make recommendations to improve their performance;
(c)    prepare manuals of standard procedures for road design and works
supervision, and provide on the job training to SMWOT engineers and
supervisors;
(d)    coordinate the intervention of the technical assistance;
(e)    carry out at least on a quarterly basis field inspections to verify the accuracy
of the works reporting;



- 91 -
Amnex
Page 3 of
(f)    countersign the work accomplishment statements prepared for the payment of
contractors from the Project and Special Accounts;
(g)    countersign the monthly revolving fund financial statements of the Project and
Special Accounts;
(h)    prepare quarterly progress reports reviewing accomplishments, presenting
project statistical data, general outlook for following quarter and important
project schedule revisions; including provision of other data required by
SMWOT, the World Bank and co-financiers;
(i)    assist the SMOWTs in procurement matters;
U)    assist in the p'anning, design, construction and monitoring of the state roads
program;
(k)    participate in the state transportation planning activities;
(1)    submit a final report summarizing the accomplishments with all relevant data
in accordance with SMOWTs and Bank requirements; and
(m)   by the end of the initial two-year period, prepare in consultation with the
relevant counterparts detailed procedures for effective takeover of the above
activities, and assist other team members in preparing detailed procedures for
their counterparts.
5.    The expert should be a well qualified highway engineer with at least ten years post-
qualification experience and five years of experience in managing and supervising bituminous
and laterite road works. He/she should have some experience in Sub-Sahara Africa.
B. Accounting Expert
6.    The accounting expert will be assigned to SMOWTs and will:
(a)    assist SMOWTs in preparing monthly claims for the reimbursement of the
Project and Special Accounts established for the project financing;
(b)    assist SMOWTs in preparing monthly reconciliations of the Project and
Special Accounts;
(c)    assist SMOWTs in ensuring that all the required accounting documents are
prepared and processed, and make proposals to remedy any deficiencies;
(d)   if required, prepare inventory control procedures for SMOWTs' divisions and
headquarters; and
(e)    assist as required with the development of software for computerizing the
accounting functions, the inventory management and the cost and performance
accounting system.



- 92 -
Annex 4-6
Page 4 of 4
7.    The expert should have full accounting qualifications and, at least, five years of
accounting experience and must be able to set up accounting systems in the specific offices of
SMOWTs.
C. Pavement and Design Engineer
8.    The expert will be assigned the responsibility of designing all road works included in
the project. He/she will:
(a)    design road rehabilitation, maintenance, upgrading and construction included
in the project;
(b)   take note of the high accident rates in Nigeria in discussing road works, and
ensure particular attention is given to enhancing road safety, including the
need to improve road alignments;
(c)    prepare bidding documents of the cost and performance data and participate in
bid evaluation;
(d)    provide on-the-job training to the desigs engineers counterparts t; chnicians;
and
(e)    participate in the development of detailed work schedules.
9.    The pavement and design engineer should be a well qualified highway or pavement
engineer with at least five years of experience in roads and pavement design. He/she should
be familiar with the design of regravelling, overlaying and resealing, and routine maintenance
techniques for bituminous and laterite roads. He/she should be able to give on-the-job
training to comnmitted counterparts.
10.   It is estimated that this consultancy will consist of about 80 staff-month during the
first two years of project implementation, at a cost of US$2.0 million per state.



- 93~ -
Annex 4-7
Page 1 of 5
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Supervision of Road Work Contracts
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.    The Government of Nigeria has applied to the World Bank for a loan. A portion of
the loan will be used by the SMOWT for an upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance
program. Under the program, road contracts will be by ICB on a slice and package basis.
This will provide small domestic contractors the opportunity to participate. Geographically
dispersed work will be procured by LCB.
()bjective
2.    The Consultant hired to help the State supervise program contracts will benefit the
State in two ways:
(a)   In showing the efficacy of contract supervision by experienced professionals in
this field of work; and
(b)   in promoting technology transfer to enhance the State's capabilities to
undertake similar work in the future. Suitably qualified State personnel will
be assigned as counterparts.
Scope of Work
(A)   Duties and Responsibilites of the Consultant
3.    The Consultant is to supervise the works and to approve the materials and
workmanship of the works. He is to do this in cooperation and consultation with the State.
He shall have no authority to relieve the Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under
the Contract. He shall not order without consultation with the State any work entailing
delays or any extra payment by the State.
4.    Accordingly, and in consultation with the State, the principal responsibilities of the
Engineer shall be:
(a)   to issue the order to commence to the Contractor;
(b)   to authorize the Contractor's subletting parts of the work;
(c)   to explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies in the Contract
Documents;
(d)   to provide assistance to the State in the settlement of disputes with the
Contractor;



- 94 -
Annex 4-7
Page 2 of 5
(e)    to approve the Contractor's working drawings and, if necessary, to issue
further drawings and/or to give instructions to the Contractor;
(f)   to approve data for the setting out of work;
(g)   to approve or to disapprove the Contractor's superintendence, key personnel
and/or construction program, land to be occupied by the Contractor, materials
and/or sources of materials;
(h)    as required, to order special tests of materials and completed works and/or
remove and replace improper materials and/or work after prior consultation
ith the State;
(i)   to control and appraise Works progress, to order the suspension of Works,
and to authorize extension periods for Works completion;
(j)    to issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix rates for un-priced
work, to order daywork after obtaining prior approval of the State, and/or to
make recommendations to the State regarding alternatives;
(k)    to issue interim certificates for payment to the Contractor and to certify works
completion or parts thereof;
() \  to inspect the works during and/or after the Maintenance Period and to issue
the Maintenance Certificate;
(m)   to carry out all the Engineer's duties as specified in the Contract, within the
limitations specified above;
(n)    to advise the State on all matters concerning claims from the Contractor and
to make recommendations thereon, including the possible recourse to
arbitration; and
(o)    to insure that their representative and staff provide the State's counterpart staff
with the skills and knowledge needed to provide effective contract supervision
on futcre state projects.
(B)    Duties & Res onsiilities of the Consultant's Representative & Staff
5.     The duties of the Consultant's Representative r nd staff are to supervise construction of
the Works. They are to test or order to test and examine any materials to be used or
worknanship employed concerning the Works. They shall have no authority to relieve the
Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract. They shall not order any
work involving delay or any extra payment by the State nor to make any variation of, or
in,Works. They will transfer to local counterpart staff the skills and knowledge needed to
provide contract supervision on future projects.



- 95 -
Annex 4-7
Page 3 of 5
6.    The principal responsibilities of the Resident Engineer shall be as follows:
(a)   to inspect the performance of the Works concerning workmanship and
compliance with the Specifications and to order, supervise or perform tests on
materials and/or work and to approve or disapprove the Contractor's plant and
equipment;
(b)   to order, if required, the uncovering of completed work and/or to remove and
replace improper materials and/or work;
(c)   to check systematically Works progress and to order the initiation of certain
work that is part of the Contract;
(d)   to examine and attend the measurement of any work that is about to be
covered up or put out of view before permanen: work is placed thereon and/or
to examine and attend the measurement of the completed Works;
(e)   to check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other statements
concerning arithmetical error and compliance with the Contract, and if
required to correct thereof;
(f)   to supervise the Contractor in all matters about safety and care of the Works
and if required to request from the Contractor the necessary lights, guards,
fencing and watching;
(g)   to direct the Contractor to carry out all such work or to do all such things the
Resident Engineer thinks may be necessary to avoid or to reduce the risk in
case of an emergency affecting the safety of life or of the Works or of
adjoining property;
(b)   to carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from time to
time be delegated in writing by the Consultant;
(i)   to prepare as-built drawings for the complete Works;
OI)   to insure couaterpart personnel receive the skills and knowledge needed to
provide contract supervision on future state projects;
(k)   to identify the skills and knowledge that have been transferred to the
counterpart p-sonnel; and
(I)   to demonstrate through certification procedures that the counterpart personnel
are qualified to provide effective contract supervision.
7.    The Consultant shall furnish the State with a full list of all the responsibilities he will
delegate to the Consultant's Representative for Contract supervision in accordance with the
Agreement.



- 96 -
Annex 4-7
Page 4Of
Additional Services
8.    As services additional to those specified above, the Consultants shall, if so requested
by the State, provide any of the Services specified below:
(a)    preparing reports or additional contract documents for consideration of
proposals for the carrying out of additional work;
(b)    carrying out work consequent upon any assignment of the Contract;
(c)    advising the State and carrying out work following the appeal to arbitration or
litigation concerning the Works;
(d)    maintaining a day-by-day project diary that shall record all events relevant to
and that might impinge upon the Contract, requests from and orders given to
the Contractor, and any other information which may later be of assistance in
r,solving queries that may arise about executing the Works; and
(e)    any other specialist services by the Consultant or other specialists as may be
agreed upon.
9.    All additional services will be authorized by the State at rates and under conditions to
be mutually agreed.
Reports and Documents
10.   The Consultant shall furnish to the State the following reports and documents in the
number of copies stated:
(a)    Profgess eorts (10 copies). The Consultant shall submit monthly Progress
Reports to the State. The reports shall include minutes of site meetings with
the Contractor that the Consultant's Representative has convened. The reports
are to commence at the end of the month following the date of award of the
contract for construction. After the issue of the Completion Certificate, these
reports shall be submitted at quarterly intervals until the end of the
Maintenance Period.
(b)    1omletion Re        (20 copies). The Consultant shall submit a completion
report at the time of final certification.
Qualifications of the Consultant's Representative
11.   The Resident Engineer is to be a well qualified highway engineer. This expert should
have at least ten years post-Qualification experience. Also, the expert should have five years
of construction management experience. The Resident Engineer will need an assistant and
someone with accounting experience. The assistant should be a highway engineer familiar



- 97 -
Annex 4-7
PUQLre5f 5
with construction quality control procedures and tests. The accountant should have experience
in monitoring construction projects and be able to document the flow of materials and funds
for construction projects. It will be useful if the Consultant's Representative is familiar with
the FMWH(HSL) standard bidding documents and procurement procedures which will be
used by State for contracting under the MSRP.
12.   It is estimated that this consultancy will consist of about 60 staff-month during the
first two years of project implementation, at a cost of US$1.2 million per state.



MEEAL REPUBLIC OF NLGERIA
FIRST MUSLlTIS 13 ROAD-S PO ,
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Estimated Annual Con>tr     and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalen)
.________________ _     PROJECT  YEARS          _
PROJF  PERIOD                    1       2        3       4       5      TOTAL       REMARKS
Loan Timing
Sig/Effctive 
A. Civil Works                                                                                                        O
PrequaliWAward              ****    *****   0**0* **X
Construction & Maintenance
Works                        12.0    16.0    19.0    20.0    13.6       80.6      ICB & LCB
B. Goods
Equipment & Vehicles         0.4      0.2     0.1     0.1      0.1      0.9
C. Consultancies
Tech. Asst. & Training       2.0      2.5     2.5      2.0     1.3      10.3
TOTALS               14.4    18.7    21.6    22.1    15.0       91.8
Total Bank-Financed      (9.3)   (15.4)   (15.3)  (16.7)  (11.3)    (68.0)
IIo 



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
MONrrURABLETARGETS
a) JIGAWA STATEi
PROJECT
UNIT      DEC 1992 DEC 1993 DEC 1994 DEC 1995 DEC 1996 COMPLETION
ENGINEERING DESIGN AND
BIDDING DOCUMENT      km              80      175      270     365      450         450
CONTRACTAWARDED         km               0      115     230     340      450          450
ROAD REHABILITATION,
SIMENGTHEINGAND
MAINTENANCE           km               0       85      170     255      340         350
ROAD UPGRADING          km              0       30       60      80      100          100
CONSULTANCIES           staff-month     15      75      135     165      175          190
LOCAL COUNTERPARTS    staff-month        9      45       81     117      153          180
lRAINING                staff-week       8      30       S0      70       80          90
RECOVERY OF ROAD
RECURRENT COSTS
FROM USERS (minmum)    percent         38      90      100     100      100         100
BUDGETALLOCAKION FOR
RECURRENTMAINT.       percent          50     100      100     100      100         100    1
QUARTERLY PROGRESS
REPORT                 No.             0        4       8       12       16          19
GOD



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECr
MONIrORABLE TARGE1S
b) KANO STATE
PROJECT
UNIT       DEC 1992 DEC 1993 DEC 1994 DEC 1995 DEC i996 COMPLEIION
ENGINEERING DESIGN AND
BIDDING DOCUMENTS        km               80       220      365      550       600          480
CON11ACTAWARDED          klm                0       160      325       485      600          600
ROAD REHABILITATION,
S'TENGTHENING AND
MAINTENANCE              km                0       135      275      410       460          480
ROAD UPGRADING            km                0        20       50       100      120           120
CONSULTANCIES             staff-month       15       75      135       165      185          200
LOCAL COUNTERPARTS        staff-month       9        45       81       117      153           180
iMAINING                  staff-week        8        30       50       70        80           90
RECOVERY OF ROAD
RECURRENTCOSTS
FROM USERS (minimum)    percent           38       90       100       100      100          100
BUDGETALLOCATION FOR
RECURRENTMAINT.          percent          50       100      100      100       100          100   1   i
QUARTERLY PROGREeSx
REPORT                   No.               0        4         8       12        16           19   o  1
r%OD



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
MONrITORABLETARGETS
c) TOTAL PROJECT
PROJECT
UNIT       DEC 1992 DEC 1993 DEC 1994 DEC 1995 DEC 1996COMPLE'ION
ENGINEERING DESIGN AND
BIDDING DOCUMENtS        km               160      395      635       915     1050          930
CONTRACrAWARDED           km                0       275      555       825     1050          1050
ROAD REHABILITATION,
STRENGTHENINGAND
MAINTENANCE              km                0       220      445      665       800          830
ROAD UPGRADING            km                0        50       110      180      220           220
CONSULTANCIES             staff-month       30      150      270       330      360           390
LOCAL COUNTERPARTS        staff-month       18       90      162       234      306          360
TRAINING                  staff-week        16       60      100       140      160           180
RECOVERY OF ROAD
RECURRENT COSTS
FROM USERS (minimum)    percent           38       90       100      100       100          100
BUDGETALLOCATION FOR
RECURRENTMAINT.          percent          50       100      100      100       100          100
kIQ    :
QUARTERLY PROGRESS                                                                                  I x
REPORT                   No.               0        8        16       24       32            38   o 



- 102 -
Annx-8
Annsex Set f9
EMlctImplil io rgoam
1.    States finalize standar' bidding documents to be used in carrying out civil works; ICB
bidding documents for the flat package of road rehabilitation contracts (about 80 km per
state) are finalized by SMOWTs; invitations to prequalify are advertised according to the
Guidelines (other works packges to follow at 4 to 6 month intervals): By July 1, 1992.
2.    Appointment by FMWH of technical assistance for project oversight: By September
1, 1992.
3.    Appointment by the SMOWTs of Jigawa and Kano States of technical assistance for
managing the state roads program and carrying out engineering design: By September 1,
1992.
4.    Nomination and placoment of all governz.-- t personnel counterparts for consultants:
By September 1, 1992.
5.    SMOWTs establish projet and special accounts (the Project Account to be opened
with an inidal deposit of at least N2 mfllion in a commercial bank): By September 1, 192.
6.    FMWH establishes unit to monitor environmental impact of road construction and
rehabilitation (EAMU). By September 1, 1992.
7.    Siping of a subsidiary loan agreement between the FGN and the participating states:
By September 1, 1992.
8.    First supervision mission and Project Launch Workshop, to be held by FMWH and
SMOWTs: September 1992. Suprvision missions will be carried out two or three times a
year, mostly in September, November and March/April anualy. Annual reviews would be
held in the last quarter of each implementation year to assess progress during the past year
and review the work progm and budgeury allocaions for the following year.
9.    Implementation by the states of agreed action plan for recovering the cosrs works: By
November 1, 1992.
10.   SMOWTs appoint consultants to asist with supervision of works; first package of
road rehabilitation conoat is siged (other works packags to foiow at 4 to 6 moml
intervals): By December 1, 1992.
11.   States allocate an agreed level of financing of malnenae opeatons (to cover at least
road maintenance recurren costs) in the 1993 state budget (future allocadons and evidence of
actually spending the funds would be monitored annually): By December 1,1992 and
annually.



- 103 -
Annex 4-8
Pagel 6 of 8
12.   State Governments act on proposed road user charges increases, budget allocation for
roads (including minimum agreed allocation for recurrent maintenance), and project
counterpart funds for following year: By December 31, 1992 and annually.
13.   States finalize the details of the manpower development program and the establishment
of Technology Transfer Centers ('ITCs): By February 1, 1993.
14.   SMOWTs initiate training programs in accordance with state manpower study and
recommendations. By Marcb i, 1993.
15.   SMOWTs submit to the Bank the financial statements of the Special Accounts,
Project Accounts, and SOEs for the preceding calendar year audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank. The FMWH accounts will be audited on a similar basis: By
June 30, 1993 and annually.
16.    States implement auditing arrangements which include implementation of needed
changes to accounting procedures and practices after an exchange of views with the Bank: By
September 30, 1993.
17.   SMOWTs review current year compliance with action plan and monitoring indicators
and propose measures for following year: By October 31, 1993 and annually.
18.   SMOWTs implement road inspection and maintenance program. By November 1,
1993.
19.   SMOWTs implement program to improve routine maintenance. By January 1, 1994.
20.   SMOWTs implement improved investment planning procedures. By January 1, 1994.
21.   SMOWTs, State and Federal Governments and Bank participate in mid-term review of
project and impi-i ue results therof. The mid-term review will evaluate and assess(i)
overa progress made in project implementation including stats of road user charges and cost
recovery, use of private conors, and training; (ii) performance of FMWH in its
coordinatin capacity; (ui) performance of SMOWTs as executiDg agencies; (iv) assessment of
environmental impact, and (v) need for redesign and/or restrucing of project components:
September 1995.



- 104 -
Annex 4-8
Page, 7 of 8
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Supervision Plan
The IDA input into the table below is in addition to regular needs for the review of
progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc., estimated to require 12 staff
weels per year for the first three project years, and 8 per year thereafter.
Approximate         Activity            Expected Skill       Staff Weeks
Dates of Input                           Requirements
(mo/yr)    _
9/92      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Economist,         10
(Project Launch)    Institutional Specialist,
Procurement,
Disbursements
12/92      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial          6
Analyst, Institutional and
Training Specialist
4/93      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial           8
with special        Analyst, Institutional and
emphasis on         Training Specialist
technical assistance
and training
8/93      Supervision Mission   Engineer,                    12
Economist/Institutional
Specialist, Procurement,
Disbursements,
Environment
11/93      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial          10
with special        Analyst, Institutional and
emphasis on         Training Specialist
supervision of works
3/94      Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial           7
Analyst, Institutional
Specialist
9/94      Supervision Mission   Engineer,                     7
Economist/Institutional
Specialist, Analyst,
Environment



- 105 -
Annex 4-8
.           ~~~Page 8 of 8
Approximate           Activity               Expected Skill          Staff Weeks
Dates of Input                                Requirements
(mo/yr)            ._l
11/94       Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial                 7
Analyst, Institutional and
l ____________   __________________      Training   Specialist
4/95 to 97     Supervision Mission   Engineer, Financial                 7
Analyst, Institutional and
Training Specialist
9/95        Supervision Mission   Engineer, Institutional and         9
and mid-term review   Training Specialist,
Financial Analyst
11/95 to 97    Supervision Mission   Engineer, Economist,                7
Institutional and Training
il_____________          _Specialist                                               ||
3/98        Supervision and        Engineer, Financial                8
PCR preparation        Analyst, Institutional and
l _____________    __________________    Training   Specialist



- 106 _
Annex 4-9
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA                             Page  1 of 2
...........................
FIRST NULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
..............................
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE /1
........................
(USS mittion)
STANDARD
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES                 DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
...................                 .............................. ..........
ANNUAL DISWURSIT   CUIM. DISBURSEMENT           AFRICA REGION
IBRD/IDA              AT END WARTER      AT END QUARTER               TRANSPORTATION
FISCAL YEAR AND QUARTER        X    USSmitI          X   USSmfLL                 X
....................... ................................................ ................  ..........................  ................
FY 1M
Second QuArter                 2      1.36           2      1.36                 0
Third Quarter                  4      2.38           6      3.74
Fourth Quarter                 4      2.77          10      6.51                 3
FY 1994
First Quarter                  4      2.77          14      9.29
Second Quarter                 6      3.86          19    13.14                 10
Third Quarter                  6      3.86          25    17.00
Fourth Quarter                 6     3.86           31    20.86                 18
FY 1995
First Quarter                  6     3.86           36    24.71
Second Quarter                 6      3.82          42    28.53                 30
Third Quarter                  6      3.82          48    32.35
Fourth Quarter                 6     3.82           53    36.18                 42
FY 1996
First Quarter                  6      3.82          59    40.00
Second Quarter                 6      4.18          65    44.18                 54
Third Qwrter                   6      4.18          71    48.36
Fourth Quarter                 6      4.18          77    52.54                 66
FY 1997
First Quarter                  6      4.18          83    56.73
Second Quarter                 4      2.83          88    59.55                 74
Third Quarter                  4      2.83          92    62.38
Fourth Quarter                 4      2.83          96    65.21                 82
FY 1998
First Quarter                  4      2.83         100    68.00
Second Quarter                                                                  90
Third Quarter
Fourth Quarter                                                                  94
FY 1999
First Quarter
Second Quarter                                                                  98
Third Quarter
Fourth Quarter                                                                 100
/1 Credit assumd to beaeo effective on October 1, 1992.



FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT CHART
(% of Credit)
120
1 0  0    .     ... ............................ . . . .. . . . . ................ . . . .. . . . . .I... . . . . . . . . . . .      ..... . . .. . . .. . .
8 0    .      ...  _... . . . .. . . . ................ . . . . . .................. ... . . . . . . . ...                               ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4 0   0      . .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .... ... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. ..             .. ... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. .. ..
2 0    .  . .. . . .. . . .. . .                    .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . .. I . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . I   . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .
2   4   6   8   10   12   14   16   18   20   22   24   26   28   30
CQuarters From Loan Approval
-SAR Estimates                                                Transport (Africa)                                                                   m |x
Credit Ap
QuariterrmLa Approval Dt ue19



_ 108
Annex 4-10
Page I of 6
FED    REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRS MUL-TISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Environmental Assessment Summary
Introduction
1.    State roads in Nigeria handled 15 million vehicles/km/day in 1988 or 25 percent of
the flow of the federal roads system. State roads are of primary importance as the link for
intra-state commerce and trade between seats of local govermnents and as the backbone of the
secondary collector-distributor road system. Many of the roads are in very bad condition and
in significant need of rehabilitation and routine maintenance
2.    The main objective of the proposed State Roads Project is to support a five year State
Roads rehabilitation program in selected states, including a feasible road upgrading,
rehabilitation, and maintenance program; and an institutional development program including
training. No new state roads will be constructed under the project, and there will be no
resettlements. The FMWH will coordinate all the design, rehabilitation, and maintenance
activities of the participating states.
3.    An environmental reconnaissance (assessment) of the proposed multi states roads
project (MSRP) was carried out in May/June 1990 in cooperation with the Nigerian Federal
Environmental Protection Agency (FEPA) and the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
(FMWH). As a result of the findings of this reconnaissance, the project was re-classified from
Category A to Category B.
The Environmental Reconnaissance Study
4.    The Terms of Reference for the environmental study were:
(a)   to identify environmental issues which relate to road rehabilitation in the
participating states of Nigeria at generic and specific levels, while providing
definition of those issues to clearly illustrate the type and scope of issues
which should be addressed during project implementation;
Ob)   to identify potential adverse ecological changes which are normally associated
with road maintenance in general and, specifically, within the participating
states;
(c)   to prepare recommendations for environmental studies which would provide
necessary information to road agencies to ensure the environmental soundness
of the design and techniques employed in state road programs, and
recommend measures which would mitigate potentiaIly adverse impacts of
road maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading practices; and
(d)   to assist government agencies in establishing environmental assessment
practices which could be applied to all road components of the federal roads
system.



_109 _
Annex 4-10
Page 2 of 6
5.    The states selected for participation in the Multi State Roads Project have different
environmental conditions. In general, toad construction projects - including the reconstruction
or rehabilitation of roads - have local environmental impacts, positive or negative. The most
common negative impacts include soil erosion due to improper designs of embankments or
side drains; scouring of the landscape due to the opening of borrow pits; and destruction of
vegetation due to clearing of right-of-ways. Positive environmental impacts may accrue to the
local population living along the roads, in the form of less road accidents, better agricultural
marketing possibilities, and others. Adverse impacts due to the construction of new roads are
normally much more severe, and could include disturbing fragile ecosystems or opening up
areas of natural resources to exploitation or unplanned population movement. Examples of
this include placing roads through wildlife areas or forest reserves, which increases the
chances of poaching or over-exploitation of timber. New road construction can also create
land-tenure system stress, as roads through areas can increase market opportunities and,
therefore, the value of land. Since no new roads will be constructed by this project,
environmental concerns associated with new road construction are not relevant to this project.
Neither will the project cause any resettlement of people.
6.    In the case of road rehabilitation works, as in the MSRP case, the environmental
impacts tend to be more limited, local and direct, and will result more from construction
activities or improper design. Based on secondary research and limited field trips, the
following impacts are expected:
(a)    potential increase of gully erosion in all states, but especially in Anambra
State, due to the improper placement of state roads and the lack of design
procedures for adequately distributing runoff;
(b)   local and temporary reductions in air quality due to emissions from bitumen
processing plants;
(c)    soil erosion from side drains and improperly reseeded embankments; and
(d)    environmental and health problems associated with the improper restoration of
gravel borrow pits.
7.    Since the road alignments of most roads in the project are expected to remain
unchanged, the secondary impacts of the MSRP are fairly benign. The following
recommendations were made to ameliorate the potential adverse environmental impacts of the
MSRP:
(a)    each road to be rehabilitated should be surveyed by the appropriate agency in
each state to determine whether a separate environmental analysis is
necessary;
(b)   the FEPA should develop environmental assessment (EA) guidelines with
particular reference to road construction and rehabilitation works, and should
use the MSRP as a case study for the preparation of EAs on road
rehabilitation projects; and



_ 110 _
Annex 410
Page 3 of 6
(c)   the case study should identify appropriate or innovative design procedures for
dispersing water runoff for roads in all of the states, but with particular
emphasis on roads being rehabilitated in Anambra State.
Environmental Impacts
8.    Road rehabilitation and the continued maintenance of these roads may have either
positive or negative direct and secondary impacts, depending on the former condition of the
road (i.e., its use and the accessibility of the community to markets) and the opened
opportunities to improved health and other social services. Rehabilitating a feeder road from
a foot path to an all-seasonal road opening new markets and social services will have a
positive direct environmental impact due to opening up of new land-use opportunities for the
community at the end of the road.
9.    In the case of the MSRP, the main impacts will probably result from the direct effects
of rehabilitation activities on the immediate environment. The severity of the impacts will
depend on the type of rehabilitation activity, such as bituminous resealing, asphalt overlay, or
regraveling, and the amount of clearing associated with this resurfacing. The extent of
realignment and change in the road gradient will also determine the extent to which the direct
environment will be affected, especially with respect to soil erosion.
10.   The environmental impacts of rehabilitating state roads varies from state to state. As
evidenced in Kaduna State, soil erosion has been exacerbated due to inadequate design of
runoff drains and culverts. Additionally, improper re-vegetation of embankments on bridge
abutments and gravel borrow pits leads to increased water and wind erosion. In the case of
Kaduna, Kano, and Oyo states, it is expected that proper engineering designs of surface water
drains will reduce erosion and sedimentation problems along the profile of the roads.
11.   Borrow pits used for gravel base and sub-base material are not always restored
properly. With federal highways, the pits may be levelled, but they do not appear to be
revegetated. In livestock production areas, local population often request that these pits be
left open for watering livestock. This may be an acceptable use, but only if they are
protected from livestock damage and soil erosion, something which is presently not the case.
In addition, these pits provide breeding habitat for mosquitos and snail hosts of bilharzia.
12.   In certain states, like Anambra and Imo, gully erosion is severe and caused by, or
exacerbated by, road construction. However, there are other reasons for the gully erosion
that originate from improper land-use actvities and land clearing. From interviews with
consultants involved in erosion control projects, it appears that the problems are created by
the inadequate provision of drainage facilities, especially crossroad drains. This leads to
serious damage of roads and the increase in erosion in the vicinity of the roads.
13.   Specifications for the design and construction of roads, it appears, do not necessarily
consider proper stabilization of subsoil material for crossing wetland areas.
14.   In most cases, indirect environmental impacts of road rehabilitation works will
probably not occur, since the road aligments and gradients are not being changed. In certain
cases, as in the Kano/Kaduna road, markets have developed along the road when there has



- 111 -
Annex 4-10
Page 4 of 6
been a change in alignment. This should be expected especially if the old alignment passes
through a settlement. Therefore, the selection of the final road sites for each state is very
important.
15.   Road rehabilitation is supervised and inspected differently in each state. In some
states, the staff exist to inspect and supervise all of the reconstruction work. In other states,
the State Ministries of Works and Transport (SMOWTs) must hire consulting firms to
supervise and inspect all of the rehabilitation work. In both cases, contractors should be
required to reseed embankments and restore gravel pits.
Institutional Aspects
16.   The primary responsibility for environmental protection in Nigeria rests with the
FEPA. Specifically, FEPA is mardated to "...have responsibility for the protection and
development of the environment in general and environmental technology, including initiation
of policy in relation to enviromental research and technology..." In relation to the
assessment of environmental impacts of development project, FEPA is also mandated to:
(a)    develop, utilize, coordinate, and share environmental monitoring programs,
promote environmental research, collect basic data on chemical, physical, and
biological effects of various activities on the environment, and engage in other
environmentally related activities as appropriate;
(b)    establish environmental criteria, guidelines, specifications, or standards for the
protection of the nation's air and inter-state waters as may be necessary to
protect the health and welfare of the population from environmental
degradation;
(c)    establish procedures and guidelines for industrial or agricultural activities in
order to minimize damage to the environment from such activities; and
(d)    providing a program of technical assistance to bodies (public or private)
concerning implementation of environmental crituria, guidelines, reguladons,
and standards, and monitor the enforcement of these regulations and
standards.
17.   To date, FEPA has concentrated on developing its central and regional offices, and
developing experdse in specific areas. In the near future, FEPA wil be located in Abuja with
zonal offices in six regions. These include the five already established at Kano, Lagos,
Kaduna, Port-Harcourt, and Benin City. The other will be at Maiduguri. FEPA views its
mandate mainly as quantfyi  and reducing poHlution from direct water pollution sources.
The background and experience of the staff at the agency reflect more of the chemical
engineering and environmental engineering perspective than that of environmental assessment
and the development of plans to mitigate the adverse impacts of road rehabilitation and/or
reconstruction. However, FEPA has a strong interest in developing the guidelines,
procedures, and staff to review and evaluate environmental assessments on infrastructure,
angineering, and development projects.



-112 -
Annex 4-10
Page 5 of 6i
Mitiga   Elan
18.   FEPA will provide FMWH with the broad environmental guidelines applicable to the
project. These guidelines will also be agreed with the Bank. However the final responsibility
for the implementation of EAs lies with each participating state. The SMOWTs would be
responsible for: (a) environmental screening and monitoring of their programs; and (b)
conducting, with the u-e of local consultants, EIAs of sensitive road links.
19.   Since neither FEPA, nor the respective SMOWTs have the in-house capabilities at
present to conduct EAs, the EAs will be conducted by consultants working under terms of
references agreed with FEPA and the Bank. The consultants should be hired by each
participating state under the framework of the project. Previous environmenil work
performed by Nigerian consultancy organizations for Bank projects have demonstrated an
adequate EA capacity in he private sector.
20.   The project will facilitate thie establishment of an Environmental
Assessment and Monitoring Unit, (EAMU) in the FMWH. This unit will work directly with
FEPA and the SMOWTs in the preparation of terms of references for EIAs, selection of
consultants, approval of ELAs, supervision of mitigation programs, and regular monitoring of
impacts caused by the projects. The establishment of an EAMU is a condition of effectiveness
(para 4.26).
21.   The local population living along the roads to be rehabilitated must be
kept informed through public meetings that would also serve as suitable forums for
consultation on environmental impacts and the need for local community measures.
22.   The technical assistance component of the MSRP-I will provide for a technical expert,
possibly a second specialist from FEPA, to assist the FMWH in establishing EAMU. This
expert will work closely with the MSRP coordinator who would be responsible for the
identification of suitable engineers (initially two) to rorm the initial nucleus of the EAMU.
The expert would himself provide part of the environmental training to the EAMU
engineers/staff and also assist in organizing international training in environmental impact
assessments of roads for the engineers. The expert would further assist in identifying long
term justifiable transport and equipment needs for EAMU, and also assist with the final
institutional set-up within FMWH, the preparation of a three year work plan for EAMU, and
the establishment of formal links with SMOWTs, FEPA and other relevant institudons in
Nigeria.
23.   Inidal estimates for the establishment and initial two year running of EAMU comprise
the following:
(a)    One internationally recruited environmental specialist for one year, or
alternatively one local environmental expert for two years (possibly even a
second person if existing or available from FEPA);
(b)    Two nominated and interested engineers from FMWH allocated/seconded to
EAMU;



- 113 -
Page 6 of 6
(c)   International training, workshops and seminars in environmental issues related
to roads and highways;
(d)    Assistant/secretaries;
(e)    One 4 wheel drive vehicle for roads inspection, plus one small pick-up for
local transport needs;
(0)    Limited testing/research equipment. (Contamination/polludon analysis
equipment, erosion and sedimentation devices etc.). Computer.
(g)    Vehicle running expenses; and
(h)    Personal travel expenses, operational travel.
Estimated cost for two years:
Expert(s) inoc. travel       USS 90,000.-
Vehicles                          40,000.-
International training            40,000.-
Equipment                         20,000.-
Transport expenses                10,000.-
Travel exp.(per diem)             10,000.-
Miscellaneous                     20,000.-
Sum total      USS 230,000.-
24.   The Government has agreed with these proposals during negotiations.



_ 114 -
Annex 5-l
Page I of lIl
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Economic AnWysfi
General
1.    From an economic point of view, the main objectives of the physical components of
MSRP's road improvement progr?m are to increase the road transport capacity, reduce
transport costs and protect past investments in the highway network. The purpose of the
economic analyses is to determine the appropriate design, timing and the works to be
undertaken on each road. The work on economic analyses, summarized below, was
conducted by Consultants (TRDF) financed under a Japanese Grant Agreement as part of the
preparatory studies undertaken in the participating states to develop a five-year program of
priority road works in each state and to identify financial and institutional requirements for
carrying out the program. A copy of their report 1/ is included in the project files.
Methodology
2.    The World Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM III) was used for
evaluation of alternative investments on each of the road sections in the state roads network.
The model essentially simulates the total life cycle conditions and costs on each road section
to provide the economic decision criteria tor multiple road maintenance and rehabilitation
alternatives.
3.    Benefits were evaluated on a "with and without investment" basis, derived essentially
from savings in vehicle operating costs, but the impact of variations in the costs of road
maintenance was also included. Evaluation was based on the net present value (NPV) of all
costs and benefits and the economic rates of return (ERR) of the proposed works.
Prioritization and phasing of individual road projects was done on the basis of the ERR.
4.    Alternatives for determining the extent of works ranged from minimal routine
maintenance on the existing roads to resurfacing and complete reconstruction of the road
pavement. The depth to which each alternative was studied was related to its likelihood of
being chosen as the optimal solution. Each component of the most promising alternative (i.e.
strengthening, rehabilitation, upgrading, improvement of alignment, new construction, etc.)
was, whenever technically meaningfil, studied separately. The economic rate of return was
computed separately for each road section which was then selected for implementation only if
the return was at least 12% per annum.
1/ TRDF, Multi-State Roads Project (MSRP) Preparation, Inception Report, November 1991.



- 115-
Annex S-l
Page 2 oI
Basic Data
5.    Basic data required for input to the HDM model was collected by the Consultants
during preparatory studies. Tbis comprised, inter alia, network inventory and pavement
surveys to obtain for each road link, the geometric characteristics, pavement condition and
structural strength, subgrade strength, traffic volumes and vehicle distribution, unit costs of
maintenance operations, and vehicle fleet characteristics and unit operating costs. Tables I
through 4 give a summary of representative data on road link characteristics, unit maintenance
costs, vehicle fleet characteristics and unit costs, and maintenance alternatives evaluated. For
a more detailed description of the input data see Consultants' report on file.
6.    Costs were considered both in financial and economic terms (after adjusting for taxes,
duties and subsidies, etc.). Although not expected to be significarnt in most cases, benefits to
generated traffic were computed on the basis of 50% of savings in unit vehicle operating cost
(VOC). Traffic projections over the economic life of a road improvement were based on a
uniform growth rate of 3% per annum.
Results
7.    Table 5 gives a summary of the average vehicle operating costs for different vehicle
classes obtained on roads varying in condition from good to very poor. As seen from the
table, weighted average savings in VOC resulting from improvements in the road condition
range from US Cents 2.8 to 12.3 per veh-km depending on the initial condition of the road.
8.    Table 6 gives a summary of the NPV (at 12 percent discount rate) and the ERR of
selected road improvements to be implemented under the project. The minimum desirable
ERR is taken as 12 percent. The evaluation and selection of some gravel and paved roads to
be improved, reconstructed or upgraded in the two states is currently in progress. Some
allowance has been made in the cost estimtes for spot improvement of selected paved and
gravel roads in Jigawa. For road projects to be included in the project subsequently, it was
agreed during negodations that the minimum acceptable ERR would be 12%.
9.    Interim results, based on evaluations carried out thus far, show that the weighted
overall ERR for investments in Kano state is 48% and in Jigawa 24%. The combined ERR
for both states is 37%.



- 116 _
Annex 5-1
Page 3 of I11
TABLE 1
RO,Q LUN CHARACTERISTICS
_ink    EM 1,                         I&Ml      Eay.nnt   EavmMg    Shoilde             ADT   Rou.hness
No.                                          (km)        IL Al     Width    idth (m)          1991  (IRI)
(m)
821           Kcno             Chaflawa            10.5      AC          7.1         3.0        7499         12.40
801           Gajl.            WAkrip)             15.0       SD         7.3         2.5         771         13.07
823           Dswanau          DwainTob            10.8       SD         7.3         2.0        3465         15.00
834           KAo              Ungogo               6.0       SD         7.3         2.0        1894          5.71
803           Rurum            Raw                 19.8       SD         7.3         2.0        1147         10.74
822           Chaikwa Jot.     Yako                48.2       SD         7.3         3.0        1740          7.60
828           Dawakn Kudu    Expma. Jot.            7.3       SD         7.0         2.0        1156          9.00
827B          KRye             K.Malyakl           23.8       SD         7.2         2.0        938           7.50
806K          Gay.             State Border        25.1      SD          7.3         2.5        1412         11.07
826           Kary.            Rogo                36.6       SD         7.3         2.0        697          15.00
831           Dal              MAu                 24.0       SD         7.3         2.0        S53           6.88
805           Rano             Sumdla Ict.         69.0       SD         7.3         2.0        773           6.61
809           Gezawa           Stat. Border        27.4       SD         7.3         2.S         549          7.69
825           awamo            Kaye                19.4       SD         73          2.0         4S6         10.30
802           Tigc             Rurum               17.0       SD         7.0         2.0        315           6.95
842           idalawa let.     Kunbobo              6.0       SD         5.5         2.0        608           5.50
819           Kuny.            G.7awA              28.2       SD         7.2         2.5         829          4.59
830           Karfi            Rana                3C.2       AC         7.2         2.5        1090          6.01
824           Blchi            awazo               S6.9       SD         7.3         2.0         329          7.30
804           RcnA             Garo                42.8       SD         7.3         2.0         288          9.61
827A          Kary.            Yako                25.0       SD         7.2         2.0         576          S.80
84SK          Danbatl          State Border        30.0      UNP         6.0          0          103         15.00
824           Bichi            Owamo               S6.9       SD         7.3         2.0         329          7.30
838           Owaumi           Bebeji               3.0       SD         7.3         2.0         275          6.50
835           Gom              Kabo                15.0       SD         7.3         2.0         220          4.39
836           Bihi Rd          Gosowl               3.0       SD         7.3         2.0         177          7.30
849           JAlM             Duqp                          UNP         6.0         2.0
8S0           Mam              Gomo                14.0      UNP         6.0          0
851           Dnambu           Kunwhi                        UNP         6.0          0          S7
847           Lambh            Kunchi                        UNP         6.0          0
8S2           Dunba            Gar Daw             13.0      UNP         6.0          0
837           Dakat            Yada Kulnya         10.0       SD         7.3         2.0                      7.3



- 117..
Annex  5-1
Page 4 of 11
Link           EL2if            Tolaam                  Pavement   Pnvemeni    Shoulder         Al    Roughness
No.                                           (km)      TV" A/       Width    Widt (ai)         1991    (D
_ _  _  _  _     _ _  _  _ _                      _  _  _                  (mn)     ___  _ _                 _  _  _
Jigawa Stte_
806U          State Border     Shiwari            48.8        SD          7.3         1.7         1412         11.07
814           Jet F128         Gud                42.9        AC          7.5         2.0         809           2.34
820           Kazeute          Roni               16.9        SD          7.3         3.1         565           7.12
809           Ringin           GCezAwact.         49.8        SD          7.3         2.5         549           7.69
817           Berbura          Gumel              45.3        SD          7.3         2.5        1609           4.37
810           Gujungu          Ringim             53.5        SD          7.4         2.0         555           4.28
829           Owanm            Basirka            63.3        SD          7.4         1.5         401          12.24
811           Gujunu           Hadejia            55.0        AC          7.3         2.0         718           3.28
816           Gumel            Gujungu            39.3        SD          7.0         2.5         1008          4.59
85S           BDaaba           Jigawa             39.0        UNP         6.0          0          103          15.00
808           Kiyaws           Jalun              38.S        SD          6.0         2.3         420           6.73
832           Medu             Damomo             11.0        SD          7.2         2.0         510           4.19
812            Auyo            K.Hauaa            17.6        AC          7.3         1.8         420           5.83
807           aIhun            Gujungu            33.5        SD          7.3          0          758           4.65
846           Roni             State Border        8.0        UNP         7.3         2.0         73           13.0
84SI           BtaIl           State Border       15.0        UNP         6.0         2.0         270           7.69
840            Gjawal          Dabi                3.8         SD         7.3         2.0         225           7.12
839           Kazaure          W/Rafi              4.0         SD         7.3         2.0         201           1.42
813           K.Hausa          ButanSu            24.8        AC          7.3         2.0         326           2.02
815            Dayayawa        Madana             38.2        AC          7.2         2.3         245           2.79
g818          Grki             Jigsawa            31.1         SD         7.0         3.0         131           5.82
833            Achilafiya      Batsaba            27.0         SD         7.3         2.0
843           Oadri            F/Gawo             25.0        UNP         6.0          0
il ~ ~        ~~ ._   =.  _                     _              _-.



- 118 -
Annex 5-1
Page 5 of I11
TABLE 2
UNIT COSTS OF MAlNTENANCE QPERATIONS
Maintenance Operations       Unit   Cost Type |Cost (IJS$)
Paved Rg.ads
Patching                          sq.m      Fin.         8.20
Econ.        8.90     l
Resealing                         sq.m      Fin.         2.90     |
Econ.        3.10     l
Asphalt Overlay (40mm)            sq.m      Fin.         5.50     l
Econ.        5.10
Pavement Reconstruction (SD)      sq.m      Fin.         9.50     |
Econ.        10.10    l
Basic Routine Maintenance        km./yr.    Fin.        232.00    l
Econ.       246.00
Unpaved Road
Blading                            Icm      Fin.        172.80    |
Econ.       183.20
Spot Regravelling                 cu.m.     Fin.         8.90
Econ.        9.40
Surface, Regravelling             cu. m.    Fin.         4.50
Econ.        4.70
Basic Routine Maintenance        Icm./yr.    Fin.       232.00
_               ~~~~~~Econ.  246.00



I1Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                               5
TABLE 3
VERCLE1 FLBEEI CHARCTERIMACS AND UNrr CCtSlTS
itm  ~      ~~~ cot      ilit      Mini:uc      Lt           2-xl               >3-Axle 3-d
Vehicle Charactenstics
Vehicle Type               1           4           5           S            8                        10
Fuel Type                Petrol      Petol       Diesel      Dicsl       Dicesl       Diccl      Diesel
Grm Vehtcb Wt (tons)      1.10        1.70       2.70         12.70       18.30        26.00        38.00
ESAL                       .           -         0.02         1.50         I.S5        3.50         6.20
Psyload (tons)             -         0.30        2.30         2.30         4.S0        6.00         13.00
Diive HP                  30          40          100          100         100          100         210
BDake HP                  17          30          160          160         250          2S0         S00
Annual Hours Driven       500        1,500       2,000       2,033         1,500       1,900        2,500
AnmI   kms Driven       S0,000      S4,000      100,000      122,000      40,000      40,000       77,600
Vehicl Svc Ufl  ")         6           5           7           7            9            9           9
No. of Tu*WVeh.            4           4           4           6            6           10           14
junitcosts(USS)                                              
A. Fuunil Cos
New Vehicl             11,939.00   18,355.00   28f,00.00    179,620.00   65,000.00    103,339.00   140,355.00
rues                       82.20       96.90       82.20       355.90      267.80       394.10       515.00
Mai mnane Labor             .23          .23        .23           .37         .23          .23         .37
Cew rune.                                .23        .23          1.33         .44          .44          .92
Annual Oveedt (%)           -           5.00        5.00        12.00        8.00        10.00        12.00
Anma Inere (X)             17.00       17.00       17.00        17.00       17.00        17.00        17.00
.       m          m           -            m    .
Fuel & Lubricants (iter)  Pel  -*  .07         Diesel Fuel   -   .06   BEgine Oil   -   .92
S. -congmicCd (S
Now Vehicle            10544.00    16,652.00   27,765.00    179,627.00   6S,000.00    103,339.00   140,35S.00
res                        74.70       88.10       74.70       323.50      243.50       358.30       468.20
Maintenace Labor             .2S         .2S         .25          .40         .2S          .25         .40
C       runsw.. .25                                  .S          1.41         .47          .47          .98
Anuai Ovehead (S)          10.00       IS.00       15.00        15.00       15.00        15.00        15.00
Annual lfte   (%)          12.00       12.00       12.00        12.00       12.00         12.00       12.00
Fuel & Lubricants (br)   Ptrol   -   .10       Diesl Fuel  -   .08      Engine Oil    -     .90
doc.nanae: table3
20jan92



- 120 -
Anex 5.1
Paie 7 of I1
MALTE6NANCE AL AIVS
ROADS, RO
ALTO NULL         *Without Improvementa which is mainennce andard NULI including:
Patch 50% of Potholed are plus Routine Maintenance-Paved Road
ALTI NCMM          Mininmm Mainaennce which is mmintenance standard MINI including:
Paeching 100% of the Poholed aa to a maximum applicable roughness of 9 WU. Reconsruct
wheb rough.A. exceeds 9.0 IR. New surface: Surface Trtmenit IS mm thick. Initial
roughness 3.0  l.I New ganular bane 10 mm. Icrement in the Structural Number (SN) 0.8.
Routine Maintenance - Paved Road.
AL12 NCDI         *Overlay Design 1 which is mainteance sadad DESI including:
Poching 100% of potholed ar. Overlay when roughnes exceeds 4.0 11. MbIimum
applicable intea 10 year, Ovelay type Ar  Strength Coefficient 0.44. Overlay thicknes 40
mm. Routine maintea nce Paved Road.
ALTI NCD2         'Overlay Design 2 which is maintenance sdard DES2 including:
Same as above with Overay thicknes of 60 mm.
ALT4 NCDW          Oved y DWSign 3' which is mintenane andard DES3 including:
Same as above with Overlay thicknes of 80mm.
ALTS CODI         *Recoawbuedon with surface treatment- which is maitenance stadad RECI including:
Reconsution when roughn excee4d 4 II. Minimum applicable interval 10 yea. New
sxfhe: surfice uteatunst. New urfacing layer thickness 15mm. Initial roughness 3.0 IR.
150 mm. of granar baen. Increment in the SN 0.8. Roudne maintenance Paved Road.
ALT6 COD2         *Recoantdction with Asphalt Conerete which is mainteane standard REC2 including:
Same as above but new surface: AC. New surfacing layer thicknes 50 mm. Increment to the
SN 1.7. Inial roughneu 2.0 MI.
ALT? NCM2         'No Co _inutio Pateh and Seeal which is maintenane tandard MIN2 including:
Pateh 100% of potholed ar. Resel when total damage are exceeds 30%. Reconsuct when
ougShne  exceed 9.0 1RJ. Minimm applicable interval 10 years. Surface type: srface
trtent. New surfacing layer thickness 15 mm. Inhil roughnes 3.0 IRI. 150 mm granular
bae. Inrem    of the SN 0.8.
ALTS 131          'Upgrade fiom single lane rod to dual caigeweay with construction option  lUJI and maintenane
sandad MINI including:
Patching 100% of the potboled ar  to mamum applicable roughne  of 9 3.. Reconsuct
when rughness exceeds 9.0MI1. New surface: suretreatment 15 mm. tick. Initil
roughne  3.013I. New grnur base 150 mm. Increment in the SN 0.8. Routine
mainteace- paved rad.



_ 121 _
Annex-S-1
ALTO MiUP         'MniWm Maintenance Unpaved Road' which is maintence sandard UP?i includinS:
Roudtie Maintenance Unpaved Roads: includes drainege, vegetation, shouider, nd
miceiiectu ativities.
ALTI Udil         "Upaved Maintenance I I which is   tenance standard UPMI including:
Gatding wben oughness exceeds 10.0 M. Spot regSavelling 100% of materia loss. Routine
mairnenance for unpaved made.
ALT2 UVMI         'Unpaved Maintenace 2' which I maintennce stndard UPM2 including
Grading when roughneu exceeds 10.0 MI. Grovel resurfacing with granular mAterial every two
yeamu making upto 100 mm. tick layer, initia roughneu 5.0 MI. Rouine maintenance for
unpaved road.
ALT3 PR12         'Upgrade from unpaved to paved mad' which is constrution opdon P12 and mainten     standard MINI
includin:
Construedon to upgrade to paved mad the first yer. Patching 1OOX of potboled aa maximum
applicable roughnesu 9.0 MI. Reconstrut when roughnu excees 9.0 Mi to surface ttment.
New layer thickness 15.00mm. Initial roughess 30111. B3a   yer thickmnS 150mm.
Increment in the SN O.



- 122 -
Annex 5-1
Page 9 of 11
TABLE 5
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
(US Cents/km Economics)
car   Pick-    Mtni    La=       2-axl   3-axl   3+ axl  Weighted
UR      Bus      Bus    Truck   Truck   Truck   Average
Good (MI 2.5)    8.6    12.1     12.0      69.0   40.7   73.0   101.5        20.9
Fair (IRI 5.5)   0.0    14.5     12.4      72.7   58.9   84.0   116.2        23.7
Poor (IRI 7.7)   1.8    17.8     12.8      77.1   57.3   95.0   131.7        26.9
Very Poor (MRI 11) 16.0    25.3  14.0      86.0   70.8  112.7   156.7        33.2
SAVINGS
Fair to good     1.4     2.4      0.4       3.7    8.2   11.0    14.7         2.8
Poor to good     3.2     5.7      0.8       8.1   16.6   22.0    30.2         6.0
Very poor to good  7.4    13.2    2.0      17.0   30.1   39.7    55.2        12.3
Exchange rata used is USS1.0=N1O.0



_ 123 -
Annex 5-1
Page 10 of 11
TABLE 6
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
L___           E_M TO                          LOh         -n_ AU                 Inmoi    Not Pjes.    E                Estimated
No.                                             (kmn)    I= I/    1991           mir         Vatue       Rit oCoot
-____ _ --_ _ -_ _C --/                                                      Let                SM
Kano State
821          KmAo               ChaIlawa           10.5        AC         7499         PRJI        22.6         >150            1.56
801          Oajale             Wak(Tiga)          15.0        SD          771       NCMM          7.6           113            1.25
823          Dawanau            DwakinToha         10.8        SD         3465        CODI         5.0            81            0.90
834          Kano               Ungogo              6.0        SD          1894       NCM2         0.2           75             0.13
803          Rutum              Rawo               19.8        SD          1147      NCMM          5.8           66             1.65
822          ChaLlwa Jct.       Yako               48.2        SD          1740       NCD2         15.4          66             2.80
828          Dawakin Kudu       Exprtuwey Jct.      7.3        SD          1156      NCMM           1.9          57             0.61
8278         Yako               K.Matyaki          23.8        SD          938       NCMM          3.0           48             1.98
806          Gaya               State Boder        25.1        SD          1412       CODI         5.8           46             2.09
826          Kaay.              Rogo               36.6        SD          697        CODI         4.7           36             3.05
831          Dal                Manu               24.0        SD          553       NCMM           1.3          35             2.00
805          Ratio              Sumaila Jet.       69.0        SD          773        NCD2         7.6            33            4.02
809          Geztwa             State Border       27.4        SD          549       NCMM           1.2          28             2.28
825          Owuzo              Karye              19.4        SD          456       NCMM           1.4           27            1.61
802          Tirg               Rutum              17.0        SD          315       NCMM          0.5           27             1.41
842          Challawe JOt.      Kunbotno            6.0        SD          608        NCDI         0.1            26            0.25
819          Kunye              Geewe              28.2        SD          829        NCDI         1.2            24            1.17
830          Karfi              Rano               30.2        AC          1090       NCD2         1.0           22             1.76
824          Bichli             Gwazo              56.91       SD          329       NCMM          0.9            22            2.48
Upgrading/econ-
tructo (e)                           A2U.      UNPISD                                                             17.03
Subtoa                             601.2                                                          4U             36.03
Stat.
806          State Border       Sbiwai             23.7        SD          1412       CODI         11.4          46             1.97
820          Kazaue             Roni               16.9        SD          565       NCMM          0.6            29            1.41
809          Rim                State Border       22.4        SD          549       NCMM          2.2            28            1.86
817          B ure              Oumai              45.3        SD          1609       NCDI         2.7            28            1.88
829          Owarn              B oali             63.3        SD          401       NCMM          0.6            24            5.27
816          Oumel              Oujungu            33.5        SD          1008       NCDI          1.3           22            1.63
855          Basaba             Jlgpa              39.0       UNP          103        PR12          1.9           20            4.68
808          ilyawe             Jakun              38.5        SD          420       NCMM          0.2            17            3.20
832          Medu               Deacomo            11.0        SD          510        NCDI         0.1            16            0.46
812          Auyo               K.Haum             17.6        AC          420        NCDI          0             14            0.75
807          Jahun              Gujunp             39.3        SD          758        NCDI         0.1            14            1.39
UpgrdinSpot
improvemeot (d)                       10       UNP/SD                                                              5.00
Subtotal                            450.5                                                          24            29.S0
- GmadTotad                         1051.7                                                         37            65.53



_ 124 _
Annex 5-1
Page 1I1 of I I
Notes: (a)    AC = Asphalt Concrete
SD = Surface Dressed
UNP= Unpaved (gravel)
(b)    PRJ1 = Dualization
NCMM = Reconstruction (DBST) @ ERI 9.0
NCM2 = Reseal
CODI = Reconstruction (DBST)
NCD1 = Overlay 40 mm
NCD2 = Overlay 60 mm
NCD3 = Overlay 80 mm
PR12 = Paving with DBST
(c)    Evaluation of roads is yet to be completed (upgrading/reconstruction)
(d)    Evaluation of roads is yet to be completed. These roads include upgrading of Ringim to Isari
Oink 856), and spot improvement of Ringim to Gujungu (ink 810) and Gujungu to Hadeja
(ink 811).



125 _
Annex6-
Page I of I
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FIRST MULTISTATE ROADS PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.     Full set of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance, including costs.
2.     MSRP Preparatory Studies Inception Report, November 1991, Texas research and
Development Foundation (TRDF) & Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
(FMWH).
3.     Road User Charges and Axle Load Study, Phase One Report, Federal Ministry of
Works and Housing, and Louis Berger International, Inc., November 1991



CHAD
L,k-
A   ,--A             ~~~BORNO
BU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eqyfR                                K    ~      *   I4A NAL CAPTA
9\ WEgB/r SOKOTO                                   YoB d  t  o Jl  \ YOBEIES
BENIN        -))9                                                                      T KADUNA    I  4 f K f  8U DA°
J  Rlservio&5   < S S > _ g }    ~~~~~~~~BAUCff II                          g
J < NIGFR/ MW0,                                     0      AM AWA
-                                                                            S CIA R A    f  IIAX
< z m 4 @ t() K f)j(                       1.4K.90h; R  </  ~~~~~FIRST MULTISTATE
)   @  \  j    X  @  l        v   Bf~~~~~~~BIN(;If)(                    ROADS PROJECJ
°f'"'            ^<DO                                            Projed States
1   -  -  ucz X , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)S                       f Th WO   e*         RMI
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P of .,W <   a   _                           o             '
S~~~                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    



IRDG 23530
I         1 0'      *                             000,                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~960.  000o                                  I0~
KA TS INA                                                                NIGER                                                                                             Y
F.l Zincd._                                             *           I  G     E R
C             Aehilofi; _  .                                  0                           *                *M      '- *inl*                       
NIGERIA                                                                                                             Ab
FIRST MULTISTATE
.'rsr    ROADS PROJECT                                                                 T K                                                                               d\
JIGAWA STATE                                                                                                                                                                   H'Ol /od.i*
P FROJECT ROAD UNlS
PRIMMAY ROADS
SECONDARY iOADS                                                               r. K/
RAURtOAD                                                                                                                                                                              K.fi.  |     \
-.2-RIVERSH-
DAMS/RESERVOIRS f
WETLANDS
*     STATE CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                    k, ^ .  _ hI ngo                         j
STATE 8OUNDARES
rzo                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12 0
N.^ v *i**1 I---.                                            -                                                                                 --0TA
(,          GiO . 0O  10                   2030                                                                                                                   405MII! '20'mut-~5;
N I G                    CECON 0Ri4'                                                                        8GIINIEERB I
coo                   145484~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-130                                                                                                                                                                                           1 3-
irx r^{ <^°MeRZ                    -sseoOw                                                                                                                           t                       g                                 Iz°xeF r fd O.
20       4~      ~     ~~~          ~~0 60  80 KILOERS
CAMEROON                              i               D       ~                     OVLMTR
_           -_                                                     Is30'                                   96002                                    9 ?°                                    lo                                             I I 199
8.30'                                   9*0W.                                   9-30'                                    000'oo                                  1030API 
APi 992



8 J                      N-30'                     -'N  I G  E  R
K A T S I N A                   .\_-                                      ,
.. J ,GA WA
ToZ< 'Ni
a ID 20                                                                                           ,- -,D
NIGER                                                                  NIGERIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'G r
K                                                                               R           P O JEC
0      10           ' '  -.0  30 MILES 
...y 2i iW ;D-i 7OMMS
/ K AD       U                N           A                                           2 
-~~~~~  ( ~~~~~~~~~ ~~KANO  STATE
BENN                                                                                                        PROJECB ROAD UNIS CIH  I
f                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ROADS
2j~~~~~~0~~~~.  ~~~~~~  1                                                    -- ~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
RIVERS
OlD  /    -                                                                  f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DAMAS/RESERVOIRS
) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f ~~~~~~~~~0   STATE CAPIlTL
STATE RONDN(APRES
0;RooN                                                             INEERNAIOINAI BOUNDARIES
-      Nl ER                 (l\Ro _                  20   9\             5            FIRST  MUD20  9W,



