Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2415 UNI
                    (Multi-State Roads Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated November 11, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2415 UNI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 11, 1992, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association);
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through
Jigawa State of Nigeria (Jigawa State) and Kano State of Nigeria
(Kano State) (the said States being hereinafter together referred to
as the Project States) with the assistance of the Borrower;
      (C)   the Borrower, as part of such assistance, will make
available to the Project States proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and each of the Project States
pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "FMWH" means the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
of the Borrower;
      (d)   "SMOWT" means the Ministry of Works and Transport of a
Project State;
      (e)   "EAMU" means the Environmental Assessment and Monitoring
Unit referred to in Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement;
      (f)   "Technology Transfer Centers" means the Technology
Transfer Centers referred to in Part C of the Project; and
      (g)   "Project Account" means the project account referred to
in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-nine million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 49,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain for FMWH and each Project State  special deposit
accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, a
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2012, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
Project States with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall provide in its budget amounts
adequate to meet the Borrower's counterpart contributions to the
costs of the Project, said contributions being presently estimated
by the Borrower and the Association to amount over the Project
period to $700,000 equivalent.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend to the Project States the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to the Project States in Schedule
1 to this Agreement under agreements (the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments) to be entered into by the Borrower and the Project States
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, including provisions in each Subsidiary Loan Agreement
requiring each Project State to:
            (i)   pay annual interest at the variable rate applica-
                  ble, on the date of the respective Subsidiary
                  Loan Agreements, to loans made by the Bank to its
                  Borrowers;
            (ii)  repay principal in not less than 20 years (in-
                  cluding 5 years of grace);
            (iii) assume any foreign exchange risks on proceeds of
                  the Credit relent to it; and
            (iv)  carry out the actions described in Schedule 5 to
                  this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Associ-
                  ation.
      (d)   The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project,
carry out jointly with the Association: (i) an annual review of the
Project in the last quarter of each year of Project implementation
to (A) assess progress made in carrying out the Project during the
immediately preceding year, and (B) review the work program and
budgetary allocations proposed for the year immediately following;
and (ii) no later than December 31, 1995, a mid-term review of the
Project to assess (A) the overall progress made in carrying out the
Project including the status of road user charges and cost recovery,
(B) use of private contractors, (C) training, (D) the performance of
FMWH in coordinating Project activities, (E) the performance of
SMOWTs as Project executing agencies, (F) the environmental impact
of Project activities, and (G) the need for redesign and/or
restructuring of the Project or any components thereof.
      (e)   The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in
FMWH an Environmental Assessment and Monitoring Unit in a form and
with functions satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
Page  5
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of expendi-
                  ture submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls in-
                  volved in their preparation, can be relied upon
                  to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any Project State shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that any Project
State will be able to perform its obligations under the respective
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, the
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
Page  6
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the submission to the Association by each Project State
of plans satisfactory to the Association setting out the details of
the manpower development plan included in Part C of the Project;
      (b)   the submission to the Association by at least one
Project State of a letter of commitment to incorporate in its 1993
budget proposals a plan satisfactory to the Association for the
recovery of the State's recurrent road maintenance costs including
the increase in road charges required under paragraph 1 (a) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (c)   the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement by the
Borrower and at least one Project State;
      (d)   the signing of contracts for the employment by each of
the Project States on the terms and conditions referred to in
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement of consultants to assist
the Project State in the carrying out of the Project;
      (e)   the opening by each Project State of a Project Account
and the deposit therein by each such State of an initial amount of
at least Naira 2,000,000; and
      (f)   the employment of an environmental specialist to assist
FMWH in the establishment of EAMU.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement mentioned in Section 6.01 (b) above has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project State, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Project State in accor-
dance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
            P.M.B. 12591
            Ikoyi, Lagos
            Nigeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FEDMINFIN                 21248
                  Lagos
Page  7
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                  By /s/ Zubair M. Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a) Jigawa               16,200,000        75%
         State
     (b) Kano                 19,790,000        75%
         State
(2)  Equipment
     and
     vehicles:
     (a) Jigawa                  220,000        100% of foreign
         State                                  expenditures
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures
     (b) Kano                    220,000        100% of foreign
         State                                  expenditures
Page  8
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Technical
     assistance:
     (a) Jigawa                1,370,000        100%
         State
     (b) Kano                  1,650,000        100%
         State
     (c) FMWH                  1,260,000        100%
(4)  Training:
     (a) Jigawa                  200,000        100%
         State
     (b) Kano                    200,000        100%
         State
(5)  Unallocated:
     (a) Jigawa                3,950,000
         State
     (b) Kano                  4,560,000
         State
     (c) FMWH                    180,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    49,800,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)    expenditures made by any Project State under:
            (i)  Category (1) unless the Project State has (A) put
                 into effect its plan for the recovery of the
                 State's recurrent road maintenance costs including
                 the increase in road charges required under
                 paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
                 and (B) provided in its 1993 budget amounts
                 sufficient to meet in full its road maintenance
                 costs for its 1993 fiscal year; and
            (ii) Categories (1) through (4) unless the Project
                 State has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
                 with the Borrower.
Page  9
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Project States
to: (i) develop and sustain a program for the improvement of the
high priority roads in the States; (ii) train staff of their SMOWTs
to plan and oversee road works undertaken for the States by private
contractors; (iii) encourage private contractors to execute road
sector infrastructure works; (iv) establish sound cost recovery
mechanisms for the road sector; and (v) select and design road works
in conformity with the most appropriate administrative, financial
and engineering practices and procedures.
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Civil Works
(1)  Maintenance, rehabilitation and strengthening of high priority
roads in Jigawa State (about 400 km) and Kano State (about 600 km).
(2)  Upgrading of high priority roads in Jigawa State (about 100
km) and Kano State (about 120 km).
Part B:     Vehicles and Equipment
     Assisting the Project States in the efficient management and
maintenance of roads; and purchase of an adequate number of vehicles
and equipment including: (i) vehicles for surveying, field inspec-
tions and works supervision; and (ii) laboratory equipment, and
field testing, traffic counting and weighing equipment.
Part C:     Institutional Development
(1)  Training of the staff of the SMOWTs in the planning, design
and supervision of construction and maintenance of State roads and
in contract management including the preparation of a manpower
development plan satisfactory to the Association.
(2)  Establishment in each of the Project States of a pilot State
highway Technology Transfer Center to assist inter alia in: (i) the
transfer from abroad of highway technology to the Project States;
(ii) the dissemination to private contractors of technical informa-
tion on roads including information on contract management; and
(iii) the establishment and maintenance of channels of communication
between the SMOWTs and the road construction industries.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  10
2.   Bidders for works included in the Project shall be prequali-
fied as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per
contract (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000
equivalent) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000) may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 for works and $100,000 or more for goods, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of the said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 3 of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower and the Project States in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower and the Project States shall
employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
Page  11
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to: (i) $200,000 for FMWH; and (ii) $1,000,000 for each
of the Project States to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower or the Project State (as the case may be) shall furnish to
the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Alloca-
tion. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower or the Project State, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower or the Project State shall have request-
ed.
     (b)    (i)  For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                 Borrower or the Project State shall furnish to the
                 Association requests for deposits into the Special
                 Account at such intervals as the Association shall
                 specify.
            (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower or the Project State shall furnish to the
                 Association the documents and other evidence
                 required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                 for the payment or payments in respect of which
                 replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                 such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
                 the Borrower or the Project State, withdraw from
                 the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                 Account such amount as the Borrower or the Project
                 State shall have requested and as shall have been
                 shown by said documents and other evidence to have
                 been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
Page  12
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower or the Project State out
of a Special Account, the Borrower or the Project State shall, at
such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
     (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower or the
Project State directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower or the Project State. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower or the Project State shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower or the Project State has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower or the Project State shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)    The Borrower or the Project State may, upon notice to
the Association, refund to the Association all or any portion of the
funds on deposit into a Special Account.
     (d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
SCHEDULE 5
              Actions referred to in Section 3.01 (c)
                            (iv) hereof
Part A:     General
1.   (a)    Each Project State: (i) shall take all action necessary
to recover the recurrent costs of its road maintenance program; and
Page  13
(ii) shall, to that end, prepare and furnish to the Association an
action plan satisfactory to the Association to increase its road
user charges to at least Naira 8,000,000 for Jigawa State and Naira
9,500,000 for Kano State in 1993 and thereafter to levels adequate
to cover the full recurrent road maintenance costs.
     (b)    Each Project State shall cause the civil works included
in the Project to be carried out by private sector contractors
employed by the Project State under contracts satisfactory to the
Association.
     (c)    Each Project State shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the
Association a list satisfactory to the Association of the priority
roads to be included in the Project; and (ii) cause the works
relating to such priority roads to be executed in accordance with
design standards satisfactory to the Association, including those
set forth in Part B of this Schedule.
2.   Each Project State shall: (i) provide in its budget amounts
adequate to cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the
Project, including the provision each year in the Project State's
budget of amounts adequate to cover the recurrent costs of maintain-
ing State roads equivalent to not less than (A) Naira 8,000,000 for
Jigawa State, and (B) Naira 9,500,000 for Kano State; (ii) open and
maintain at a commercial bank a project account to be used exclu-
sively to meet expenditures under the Project; (iii) pay into the
Project Account an initial amount of at least Naira 2,000,000; and
(iv) issue, and thereafter maintain during the course of the
Project, written instructions to the Borrower to pay, from amounts
standing to the credit of the Project State in the Federation
Account at the Central Bank of Nigeria each month one twelfth of the
Project State's counterpart contributions to the costs of the
Project, as assessed on the basis of the annual financial plan of
the Project State's SMOWT. The Project States, the Borrower and the
Association presently estimate the counterpart contributions of the
Project States to amount to: (i) $10,000,000 equivalent for Jigawa
State; and (ii) $12,000,000 equivalent for Kano State.
3.   (a)    No Project State shall, without consultation with the
Association, carry out any road works estimated to cost more than
$5,000,000 equivalent which are not included in the Project.
     (b)    Each Project State: (i) shall in the procurement of
goods, works and consultants services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement; and (ii) shall, in the carrying out of civil
works included in the Project, without any limitation or restriction
upon the said provisions, use standard bidding documents
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   (a)    Each Project State shall with respect to the Project
maintain or cause to be maintained separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)    Each Project State shall:
            (i)  have the accounts and records referred to in
                 paragraph 4 (a) above and the records and accounts
                 for the Special Account and the Project Account
                 for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                 appropriate auditing principles, consistently
                 applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                 Association;
            (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                 but in any case not later than six months after
                 the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
                 its financial statements for such year as so
                 audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
                 auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
                 Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  14
          (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                 concerning said records, accounts and financial
                 statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                 Association shall reasonably request.
                 (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
                 from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
                 expenditure, the Project State shall:
            (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                 with paragraph 4 (a) above records and accounts
                 reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
                 tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
                 year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                 Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                 invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                 evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)  enable the representatives of the Association to
                 examine such records; and
            (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
                 in the annual audit referred to in paragraph 4 (b)
                 above and that the report of such audit contains
                 a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                 the statements of expenditure submitted during
                 such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                 internal controls involved in their preparation,
                 can be relied upon to support the related with-
                 drawals.
5.   (a)    Each Project State shall, with the assistance of
auditors acceptable to the Association by September 30, 1993: (A)
carry out for its road sector a study of its accounting system and
related supporting internal procedures and practices; (B) furnish to
the Association for its review and comments the results of the said
study; and (C) carry out such recommendations of the study as shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)    Each Project State shall, through its SMOWT, no later
than one month after each quarter of the year: (i) prepare quarterly
reports on the progress of the Project; and (ii) forward the said
reports to FMWH for consolidation and onward transmission to the
Association. The said quarterly reports shall include: (A) progress
achieved against implementation and disbursement schedules, and (B)
work programs and cost estimates for the next following quarter.
(c)    Each Project State shall, in order to mitigate any
adverse environmental impact of the Project: (i) with the assistance
of consultants employed under the Project, carry out road specific
environmental impact assessments, including a survey of the roads
included in the Project to determine the need for any environmental
impact analyses; (ii) acting with the help of the Federal Environ-
mental Protection Agency (FEPA), prepare locally adapted environmen-
tal guidelines for the Project; (iii) assess on a systematic basis
the views of local people on the environmental impact of Project
activities; and (iv) identify appropriate measures for dispersing
water run-off from Project roads.
6.   Each of the Project States shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04 through 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the
Project.
Part B:     Roads Design Standards
1.   (a)    All pavement designs carried out under the Project shall
take into account the increase in legal axle load limit from 10 to
11.5 tons/axle, as well as a survey of actual vehicle loading.
     (b)    All road designs carried out under the Project shall
Page  15
take into account the recommendations of the Borrower's Environmen-
tal Assessment Study carried out in May/June 1990 with the assis-
tance of FEPA and FMWH.
2.   All works (including reconstruction and rehabilitation works)
shall, except as the Association and the Project State shall
otherwise agree, conform to the standards set out in the design
manual of the Federal Highways Department (FHD), modified in the
case of rehabilitation works in accordance with the standards set
out below:
            (i)  Cross Sections:
                 (A)    Carriage way width      =     7.30m
                 (B)    Shoulder width          =     2.75m each
                 (C)    Overall road width      =     12.80m
           (ii)  New pipe culverts: minimum diameter of 900mm.
           (iii) Existing culverts to be extended in their present
                 form.
            (iv) Where soil is subject to erosion, a paved side
                 ditch shall be incorporated, as well as other
                 measures indicated by environmental assessment to
                 prevent erosion.
            (v)  Low lying sections of roads shall be raised as
                 necessary with selected fill materials.
            (vi) Sub-base and base course shall be of naturally
                 occurring material, where appropriate.
           (vii) Double bituminous surface treatment shall be
                 applied where technically and economically justi-
                 fied.
          (viii) Where a reasonable length of existing pavement is
                 in good condition, only single bituminous surface
                 treatment shall be required.
