Report No. PID545
Project Name                     Bolivia-Institutional Reform (@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Project ID Number                BOPE62790
Borrower                         Republic of Bolivia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Contact:
Mr. Alberto Leyton
Advisor to the Vice President
Office of the Vice President of the Republic
Old Central Bank Building
La Paz, Bolivia
Tel: 591-239-1520
Fax: 591-239-1680
Environmental Category           C
Date PID Prepared                October 6, 1998
Appraisal (planned)              February, 1999
Board Date                       March, 1999
1.      Background  Achieving strong sustainable growth in Bolivia has been a key
issue since the successful stabilization of the economy in 1985. Successive
government have engaged in structural reforms which have reduced economic
distortions and a large public sector presence in the economy. Public
enterprises have been privatized and an innovative program of decentralization
has transferred resources and responsibility for execution of many government
programs to state and local governments. However, difficulties in restoring
confidence in an economy, which has suffered hyper-inflation and delays and
shortcomings in the extent of structural reforms, as well as very weak
institutional capacity, have constrained private sector development and thus
contributed to an average yearly growth rate of 4.2 percent between 1990-97,
well below potential.
2.      In response to this situation, the current Government has endorsed a
National Action Plan based on four pillars: opportunity (generation of growth
and better distribution), institutional strengthening, equity (an increase in
the living standards of the poor), and dignity (removal of the country from
the drug circuit by the year 2002). Promoting private sector investment and
generating growth through strengthening the institutional framework of the
public sector is an important objective of the Government. This project,
initiating a ten year program of public sector modernization, is designed to
contribute to the achievement of that objective. The project builds on a
pilot program supported by several bilateral donors initiated in 1996 of
hiring qualified civil servants on a competitive basis to occupy key positions
within the central administration.
3.      Project Objectives and Description   The World Bank's proposed project
intends to support the Government's program to improve the effectiveness,
efficiency, and transparency of the public sector with the aim of
strengthening the country's ability to implement its economic and social
development programs. The project represents the first phase of an



anticipated three phase 10 year program of support by the Bank for public
sector modernization under the new Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument.
The APL permits longer term project financing and flexibility in project
design and implementation to support complex programs of institutional
development. Subsequent projects, which would expand the reform program to
other agencies and departmental governments, would be triggered by achievement
of benchmark indicators set at the beginning of the first project without need
for additional approval by the Bank's Board of Directors.
4.      To achieve the Government's goals, the proposed project would finance
technical assistance, training, some goods and equipment, and incremental
recurrent costs. The project aims at improving government wide management
systems implemented in agencies in a phased manner. The components of the
proposed project include both "horizontal" systemic and "vertical"
organizational reforms:
Horizontal
(i)     Civil service reform--creation of a new merit based, performance oriented
civil service system. Technical assistance, consisting primarily of
assistance in drafting legislation, regulations, and civil service procedure
manuals and institution building activities, would be directed toward the
following outputs: (i) a new Civil Service Law and regulatory framework; (ii)
establishment of a civil service directorate to serve as the rector
institution for modern human resource management government wide. Its
responsibilities would focus on establishing and adapting the regulations
relating to the Civil Service Law, supporting the human resource units in line
ministries, and overseeing the integrity of the government wide human
resources system; (iii) creating up to date position descriptions and job
classification capabilities, establishment registers, and personnel data
files; (iv) establishing adequate salary schedules and pay adjustment schemes;
and (v) improving training programs, career development, and personnel
evaluation processes. It would be expected during phase 1 of the program
(2002) to implement all these horizontal reforms in 6 pilot agencies selected
by the Government (tentatively the Ministry of Finance, Internal Revenue
Service, Customs Service, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Justice, and
National Statistics Institute).
(ii)    National Integrity--establishment of a broad based anti-corruption
program in collaboration with civil society. Technical assistance, training,
some goods, and institutional building activities would be directed toward the
following outputs: (i) new legal framework for government ethics; (ii) design
of an asset declaration program for public officials; (iii) strengthening of
institutions involved in the investigation of corruption, including the Office
of the Public Defender, Public Ministry, and Office of the Comptroller
General; (iv) simplification of bureaucratic procedures; (v) reform of public
procurement processes; and (vi) public education campaign.
(iii)   Performance evaluation--creation of legal and institutional
framework for a national evaluation system with the aim of facilitating
creation of a results oriented agencies including, the design of a national
evaluation system including budgeting by results (procedures,
responsibilities, incentive structure, etc.) aimed at establishing,
monitoring, and facilitating the improvement in performance by public
organizations and personnel.
-2-



Vertical
(iv)    Organizational restructuring--integrated restructuring and reform of six
pilot agencies. Technical assistance, training, some goods, and institutional
strengthening activities would be directed toward the following outputs: (i)
structure and functional diagnoses of pilot agencies; (ii) Organizational
Restructuring Agreements, designed within the full participation of the
agency, to be reviewed and approved by the policy level National Integrity
Commission (CNI) chaired by the Vice President of the Republic; (iii)
implementation of the ORAs with the aim of adjusting the agency's structure
and function to permit it to execute a well defined, service oriented mission.
Particular emphasis will be placed on implanting new human resources systems
in line with the Civil Service component, implanting new decentralized
financial management systems in line with Bolivia's ongoing integrated
financial management program (supported by a separate World Bank project),
budgeting reform to support medium term budget planning and budgeting by
results, reegineering core business processes, and creating personnel and
program evaluation processes within the agency in line with the performance
evaluation component. Under separate contracts private firm(s) are expected
to assist the Government select professional and managerial staff for the
pilot agencies. Existing staff who choose to reapply to the agency and
external candidates would be hired on a competitive basis using competency
tests, background checks, and personal interviews.
A major element in the program is that the Bank, in parallel with the civil
service program financed by bilateral donors, plans to fund on a declining
basis over four years the salaries of professional and managerial level civil
servants hired into the restructuring agencies. The Government wishes to
expand the pilot civil service program to cover all professional and
managerial staff in the central government, and to implement the new system on
a phased basis in organizations undergoing an integrated restructuring
process. This would direct new staff into reforming agencies to better ensure
creation of results oriented organizations that would be sustainable and
replicable. The Government is simultaneously seeking to maintain bilateral
donor funding for key civil service positions outside of the pilot ministries
during the interim period before these agencies are restructured and higher
salaries are assured.
5.      Project Cost and Financing.   The overall cost is estimated at US$50
million (including contingencies). The financing plan includes an IDA credit
of US$40 million.
6.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.   While the Government of Bolivia has
taken strong ownership of this operation, the Bank helped focus attention on
organizational restructuring as the means to implement the comprehensive
reforms in a manner most likely to have tangible effects in the medium term.
The Bank's world-wide experience in the design and implementation of public
sector modernization programs provides an additional benefit for the
formulation of a coherent program of activities.
7.      Project Implementation.   The CNI has formal project coordination
responsibility for the project through a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The
unit will also serve as the Secretariat to the CNI, which is expected to
provide close policy guidance to the project and PCU. The Director of the PCU
is expected to be an individual with demonstrated managerial experience,
- 3 -



leadership ability, interpersonal skills, and knowledge of the country's
political system and public sector. The unit will be responsible for
procurement in accordance with Bank Guidelines and the facilitation of
disbursements for all project activities. It will coordinate the provision of
technical assistance, recurrent cost payments, goods, and training to the
various pilot agencies.
8.      The project has been assigned an environmental category of "C" in
accordance with Operational Directive 4.01
9.      Contact Point:            The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Ronald E. Myers
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 473-8774
Fax No. (202) 522-3134
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 13, 1998.
- 4 -



