Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19325-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT
(IN THE AMOUNT OF US$32 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROGRAM
May 20, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Country Managing Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 13, 1999)
Currency Unit = Bolivianos (Bs)
1 Bs = US$ 0.17
US$1 = Bs 5.76
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC           -      Adaptable Program Credit
APP           -      Annual Project Plans
ARI           -      Acuerdo de Reforma Institucional (Organizational Reform Agreement)
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF           -      Comprehensive Development Framework
CGR           -      Comptroller General's Office
CNI           -      National Integrity Comrission
CSAR          -      Civil Service and Adrninistration Reform Project
FSD           -      Financial Service Department
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GTZ           -      German Technical Assistance Agency
HIPC          -      Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD          -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           -      International Development Association
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
ILACO         -      Integrated Financial Management Project
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
INE           -      National Statistics Institute
IRP           -      Institutional Reform Project
IRS           -      Internal Revenue Service
LACI          -      Loan Accounting Change Initiative
LCR                  Latin America and Caribbean Region
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
NIP           -      National Integrity Plan
NIR           -      National Institutional Review
NPV           -      Net Present Value
PAD           -      Project Appraisal Document
PCD           -      Project Concept Document
PCU           -      Project Coordinating Unit
PER           -      Public Expenditure Review
PMR           -      Project Management Report
PPF           -      Project Preparation Facility
PSM           -      Public Sector Modernization
SAFCO         -      Financial Administration and Control System
SOE           -      Statement of Expenses
SIIF          -      Software System of Integrated Financial Management Project
WBI           -      World Bank Institute
WDR           -      World Development Report
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Ronald E. Myers



Bolivia
Institutional Reform Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Program  purpose and program  phasing .........................................................................                                               2
2. Project development objective ..........................................................................                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators ...........................................................................                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .....................................,                                                                       4
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ...................................................................                                              4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and  strategic choices ..........................................                                                9
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans .......................................   10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ..........................................................................                                                                12
2.  Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project ...............................................                                               12
3. Benefits and target population ..........................................................................                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements .................................................................    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection .....................................................                                             15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........................  15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ....................................................                                                 16
4. Indications of borrower comrnitment and ownership ..........................................................    16
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ....................................................................                                            17
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic .......                                                                                                                                              17
2. Financial .......                                                                                                                                             17
3. Technical .......                                                                                                                                             17
4. Institutional .......                                                                                                                                         18
5. Social .......                                                                                                                                                18
6. Environmental .......                                                                                                                                         18
7. Participatory approach .......                                                                                                                                18
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability ..........................................................................                                                                    19
2. Critical risks ..........................................................................                                                                     19
3. Possible controversial aspects ..........................................................................                                                    20
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Board presentation condition .....................................................                                                                           20
2. Other ........... 20



H. Readiness for Implementation ........................0 2
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                     21
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Fiscal Impact Analysis
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.  Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 1 1.    Letter of Development Program



Bolivia
Institutional Reforn Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCC6C
Date: May 20, 1999                                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Ronald E. Myers
Country Manager/Director: Isabel Guerrero           Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Project ID: BO-PE- 62790  Sector: Public Sector     Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Management
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Lending       Program of Targeted Intervention: No
Program Financing Data
APC                  Indicative Financing Plan         Estimated Implementation Period   Borrower
(Bank FY)
IDA           Others        Total    Commitment Date   Closing Date
US$ million   %    US$ million   US$ million
Phase I   Credit     32                40           72           2000            2005
Phase 2   Credit     30                20           50           2004            2008
Phase 3   Credit     30                20           50           2006            2009
Total                92                80           172
Project Financing Data                 []  Loan      [XI Credit   [] Guarantee    [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount SDR 23.7 million/US $32 million equivalent
Grace period (years): 10
Years to maturity:    40
Commnitment fee:   .75% less any waiver
Service charge:   .25%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                      Local          Foreign         Total
Government                                                   21              0               21
Cofinanciers (Denmark, Germany, Sweden)                      17.2            1.8             19
IDA                                                         27.7             4.3             32
Total       65.9            6.1             72
Borrower: Republic of Bolivia
Responsible agency(ies): Vice Presidency, Ministries of Finance and Presidency, Office of the Comptroller General.
Possible pilot agencies for organizational reform include Ministries of Finance (with Internal Revenue and Customs
Services), Agriculture, Housing, Sustainable Development, Education, and a prefecture government to be determined.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual       5.8          7.2          844.0                    3.3          3.3
Cumulative       5.8         13.0        21.4         25.4         28.7         32.0
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1999            Expected closing date: June 30, 2005
Contact person: Alberto Leyton, Advisor to the Vice President of the Republic and National Project Director
Address: Vicepresidencia de la Republica, Ex-Banco Central, Piso 2, Calle Ayacucho y Mercado #208,
La Paz, Bolivia
Tel: 591-2-391680             Fax: 591-2-392606             E-mail: aleyton@vicepres.gov.bo



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 2
Country: Bolivia                                               Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing (see Annex 1):
This Public Sector Modernization (PSM) program seeks to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency of the Bolivian public administration in order to strengthen the country's ability to implement its
economic and social development programs and thus combat poverty. The program builds on the substantial
reform of the state, including privatization and decentralization initiatives, undertaken by successive Bolivian
Administrations since 1985. That effort has significantly reduced the size and scope of the central government,
permitting the proposed program to aim at strengthening the remaining core public sector. The purpose of the
program over ten years is to improve the quality of service delivery and client orientation of government
operations by creating more honest, cost-effective, results-oriented organizations. It would establish in fact the
institutional framework anticipated by Bolivia's comprehensive and visionary Financial Administration and
Control System (SAFCO) law approved in 1990. This project has been designed in close collaboration with the
current Public Expenditure Review (PER) and National Institutional Review (NIR). The latter (being piloted in
Bolivia for the LCR region) is an innovative and comprehensive assessment of formal and informal governance
rules and practices. It is being conducted, in close coordination with the Government, by senior experts in the
Bank covering such areas as the civil service, budgeting, and institutional behavior.
At the end of the program period the public administration of Bolivia would be significantly improved. In
contrast to today, most civil servants in the central government, including the nine regional departments, would be
hired and promoted on merit and paid by the government based on coherent market related salary schemes rather
than significantly underpaid or financed on an ad hoc basis by external donors. A more defined and secure career
path based on evaluated performance would sharply reduce staff turnover and promote sustained quality
improvements, professionalism, and esprit de corps. Public employment will have fallen in the Central
Government from around 13,000 to 9,400 and it would be seen more as a legitimate career option for educated
Bolivians rather than a non-productive job with little prestige and less pay for the least qualified, or a source of
patronage for political parties. Honesty and transparency in the collection and use of public resources and
provision of public services would be more the norm than the exception. Financial management would have been
deconcentrated to line agencies through the parallel integrated financial management project, with accountability
enhanced through modern information systems and adherence to uniform regulations and procedures. The budget
process would have become a more reliable and powerful tool for medium term strategic planning. Ministries and
agencies would have more coherent legal mandates, primary responsibility for managing their human and
financial resources, streamlined organizational structures, smaller staff with a significant shift in skills balances,
and be subject to publicized performance criteria. Their service delivery would be measured and their budgets
adjusted according to the results achieved. While the reform agenda would not be complete, major and
demonstrable gains would have been achieved and citizens and leaders alike will view the public sector more as a
national resource capable of enhancing the general welfare rather than a source of corruption, private gain, or an
impediment to development.
The Adaptable Program Credit (APC), along with substantial co-financing from bilateral donors (Denmark,
Germany, Japan, and Sweden) would provide the Government of Bolivia the increased ability necessary to pursue
these ambitious goals. It would allow the authorities, donors, and the Bank to gauge the achievement of critical
milestones, re-appraise program activities as necessary, rapidly introduce lessons learned, and adjust the long term
program. It would provide the time to create and demonstrate successes and thus build the political support and
consensus needed to sustain the reforms. The effort would be phased in three operations over a ten year period.
The expectation of continued Bank financing through the APC should increase the confidence of Bolivian
citizens, investors, and civil servants that the fundamental reforms undertaken will be sustained through changes
in administrations. The program would build on existing Bank projects (integrated financial management and
judicial reform) and complement the efforts of other international financial institutions and bilateral donors to
promote improved governance in Bolivia. Indeed the authorities may incorporate several projects within the
structure of this state modernization effort.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 3
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
The first operation (Institutional Reform Project) would reform the basic institutional framework for the public
sector and pilot those institutional reforms along with organizational strengthening in several key agencies. Those
agencies identified for reform in Phase 1 tentatively include the ministries of Finance (including its Internal
Revenue and Customs Services), Agriculture, Housing, Sustainable Development, Education, and a regional
prefecture government to be determined. Bank support for the two subsequent phases of the program, which
would address the remainder of the central government and the nine regional departmental governments, would be
decided after a thorough evaluation of the preceding phase by the Government, donors and the Bank, based on
trigger indicators which would assess both policy changes and the implementation record for each program
activity. If approved, Bank financing of the subsequent phases would be re-assessed based on updated costs of
program activities taking into account government and other external financing. Total cost of the project is
estimated at US$172 million over 10 years. The cost of the first phase (the proposed project) is estimated at $72
million, and the subsequent phases are estimated at somewhat lower amounts assuming that: (i) the basic design
and implementation of the horizontal reforms (creation of rector institutions, legal framework, and operating
procedures) are largely completed during Phase 1; and (ii) the costs of implementing the reforms in state
governments do not exceed those of central ministries.
2. Project development objective (see Annex 1):
The first phase Institutional Reform Project (IRP) aims to create the institutional framework for a modern public
sector as well as to build several model agencies. It would focus on: (i) horizontal reforms in the areas of human
resource management, national integrity, budgeting by results, and performance evaluation for both personnel
and organizations. These institutional reforms would seek to change the legal and regulatory framework as well
as incentive structures for public sector operations and would be applied to the extent possible to all agencies; and
(ii) vertical implementation of these reforms in an integrated fashion in pilot agencies designed to create effective,
efficient, and transparent organizations. The change process in agencies would be fostered by organizational
restructuring and strengthening, the implementation of the new horizontal systems, and explicit processes of
change management and staff renewal. The latter would include the selection of professional and managerial
level staff through a competitive process of recruitment open to existing staff and external candidates. During a
five year period, IDA and other financiers would support on a declining basis market-related salaries for the new
staff positions. At a minimum the authorities expect that the project would: (i) establish the legal and institutional
foundation for a merit based and de-politicized civil service; (ii) create the regulatory and organizational
framework for increased integrity within the public sector; and (iii) significantly improve budgetary and financial
management practices within the Ministry of Finance complemented by more transparent and effective tax
collection by the Internal Revenue and Customs Services. Within the limits of the Government's budgetary
capacity to fund increased civil service pay as well as the advances in project implementation, these reforms
would be extended to the other pilot agencies.
3. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Key performance indicators of progress towards program objectives over the course of the APC would be the
following:
*  Operation of integrated financial management system (building on the existing IDA financed project) in
rector institutions (Ministry of Finance-MOF and Office of the Comptroller General-CGR) and line agencies
indicated by expanding application of accounting, cash management, and internal auditing procedures; and
operation in agencies of the integrated financial management software system.
*  Results oriented budgeting and medium term budget programrning in operation in pilot agencies.
*  Modern, merit based, and decentralized civil service system established (in law and key systems) in rector
institution and pilot agencies indicated by percentage of staff incorporated into the new Civil Service Regime
hired through competitive processes and paid market related salaries; and percent of current wages of the
Civil Service financed by the Treasury.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 4
Country: Bolivia                                                Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
*  National Integrity Plan functioning (in law and key systems) in rector institution and pilot ministries indicated
by functioning of Asset and Income Declaration system;
*  Performance evaluation system functioning (in law and key systems) indicated by annual publication of
national performance evaluation reports.
*  Results oriented agencies indicated by: restructuring of agencies under Organizational Reform Agreements-
ARIs (including updated mission statements, revised structures, increase in proportion of professional and
managerial staff); agencies assuming increased responsibility for decentralized financial management systems
and medium term budget planning; agencies assuming increased responsibility for decentralized human
resource management; functioning evaluation systems leading to modifications in agency budgets and policy
priorities stemming from evaluation results; and improvements in critical performance indicators (identified
during preparation of ARIs) measuring service delivery in each agency.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 17890-BO
Date of latest CAS discussion: June 16, 1998
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy targets poverty reduction as its primary goal, focusing on three
development themes identified by the Government: (i) Opportunity-to attain higher sustainable private sector
led growth with better distribution; (ii) Equity-to raise the standards of living of the poor; and (iii) Institutional
Reform-to strengthen the institutional framework for better justice and more efficient and corruption-free
administration. To support this latter pillar of the Government's development program, the CAS proposes to help
(i) modernize the state, and the legal and institutional framework for the private sector; (ii) implement judicial
reforms; and (iii) assure an integrated framework for municipal and regional government strengthening. State
modernization would include augmenting responsibility and accountability, increasing transparency, developing a
professional and stable civil service, improving internal processes, and refining the responsibilities and
competencies of agencies. The proposed project would directly support the objectives of the Institutionality Pillar
by changing systemic rules and incentive structures, consolidated through modernized organizations at the central
and regional government levels.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Weak human resources. The quality of human resources within the central administration is weak. Pay is
insufficient to attract or retain quality staff in adequate numbers, career development and training is almost non-
existent, institutional memory and esprit de corps are lacking, and there is no focus on performance evaluation.
There is excessive rotation of employees (during changes in Administration some ministries suffer a 90 percent
turnover) and indeed the importance of the central government as a source of patronage may have increased due
to the privatization of state owned enterprises over the last decade. Good staff within the government are
frequently financed by donors, leading to large discrepancies in pay, potential conflicts of interest, and lower
morale for non-donor financed staff. Ostensibly hired to implement projects, such staff frequently fill line
positions and often disappear when donor funding ends. Recognizing these problems, the Bank and several
donors worked with Bolivia in the mid-1990s to design a Civil Service and Administration Reform (CSAR)
Project which aimed to finance on a declining basis the salaries of competitively recruited civil servants placed in
key positions throughout the central government. Some 260 recruits were hired for positions in several agencies,
financed in part by contributions from bilateral donors and a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance.
However the new Government asked the Bank in 1997 to suspend preparation of CSAR project, preferring to
undertake a more fundamental reform of human resource management within a broader public sector
modernization effort.
Creation of a new merit based and professional civil service at the technical and managerial levels throughout the
central government is a major objective of the IRP. The new system for human resource management would be



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 5
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
operationally decentralized, giving line managers greater autonomy in hiring, firing, and performance incentives,
but within guidelines and structures promoting merit and transparency. It would be promoted by: (i) enactment,
prior to credit effectiveness, of a new Civil Servant's Statute containing key reforms establishing the framework
for a merit-based civil service; and (ii) establishing a civil service entity to serve as the rector institution for
modern human resource management government wide. The responsibilities of this entity would focus on
establishing and adapting the regulations relating to the Civil Servant's Statute, supporting the human resource
units in line ministries, and overseeing the integrity of the government-wide human resources system. A small
independent appeals tribunal would be established to review personnel actions, in exceptional cases, particularly
relating to firings and selection of higher level career staff. Its aim would be to ensure appropriate processes and
the development of clear case law to protect the interests of the public as well as employees, without becoming a
bottleneck for personnel decisions or damper on agencies' responsibility to meet their performance targets; (iii)
creating up-to-date position descriptions and job classification capabilities, establishment registers, and personnel
data files; (iv) proposing improved salary schedules and pay adjustment schemes which would be transparent; (v)
establishing a uniform salary scale with equivalent remuneration for similar administrative levels, with the
possibility of specific incentives in particular institutions and/or positions. The Civil Service Rector Institution
will oversee any deviation from the uniform standard.   The standardization of the salary scale will be
implemented gradually at the pace of project execution; (vi) improving training prograrns, career development,
and personnel evaluation processes; and (vii) sharply reducing the rotation of staff due to political considerations.
All these horizontal reforms are expected to be implemented in the pilot institutions during phase 1 of the APC.
The government will also seek to improve human resource management policies and practices within the
reformed framework in non-pilot agencies utilizing national and donor resources as available.
Deficient budget and financial management systems. The budget process in Bolivia is seriously flawed.
Although a legal framework for a decentralized system exists and strict cash management within the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) promotes adherence to fiscal targets, the goals of allocative optimization and efficient resource
use are not being achieved. The budget appears to be based on inertial line item adjustments by the Finance
Ministry from the previous year's amount, without sufficient regard to medium term strategic priorities,
institutional requirements, or prior year outturns. It is further undermined as a strategic planning tool by long
delays in congressional approval, upward adjustments during the legislative approval process which are
frequently rendered meaningless due to overriding cash limits, and unpredictable spending caps, inter-agency
redistribution, and daily payment authorizations/denials by the Finance Ministry due to cash constraints.
Moreover, there are serious accounting, computational, and information system problems. Despite implementing
an Integrated Financial Management (LACO) project since 1987 (an effort which has sparked similar reform
efforts throughout Latin America) Bolivia has not met program goals of operational decentralization and
normative centralization, due to several factors including bureaucratic resistance, lack of ownership of the project,
and weak implementing capacity. The broader management and planning systems and regulatory framework
contemplated in the 1990 SAFCO legislation have yet to be applied. As a consequence of all of the above, line
agencies do not have an appropriate level of responsibility over their own budget planning, formulation, and
implementation, with negative results on effectiveness, efficiency, and results orientation, the Ministry of Finance
has serious concerns about the agencies' abilities to properly utilize resources, and senior officials and especially
the Congress are hampered in making strategic decisions on national resource allocation.
The Government is committed to a comprehensive budget reform. A two track process will involve: (i)
reinvigorating the integrated financial management effort; and (ii) initiating a comprehensive budgeting by results
program. The first aims to establish during 1999/2000 a public sector financial management system that
integrates, through uniform standards and procedures as well as modern information technology, the sub-systems
of accounting, budgeting, cash management, public investment, and control/audit in order to provide decision
makers with accurate, and timely financial inforrnation. As the entire system is developed, tested, and staff in the
MOF and agencies are trained, line ministries will be able to increase their responsibility for budget, accounting,
treasury, and internal audit functions. This would improve their ability to design and execute activities more in
line with client needs and agency capabilities, but with appropriate transparency and accountability. Modem
information technology systems will permit this deconcentration while maintaining appropriate oversight by the
rector institutions (MOF and CGR). To this end the Finance Ministry has supported a fundamental reassessment
of the integrated financial management project and adopted an action plan to promote its full implementation



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 6
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
throughout the public sector. This effort will be supported by the existing ILACO project as well as the IRP
through the organizational restructuring program described below. This effort will entail close coordination
among the MOF, CGR, and the two Bank projects.
The budgeting by results effort is designed to increase the use of the budget as a tool of strategic planning and
efficient resource use. It will involve reforms within the MOF, line agencies, and the legislature. Its aims to: (i)
improve the quality of budget decision making by incorporating a result oriented budget, performance indicators,
goal setting and performance evaluation system; (ii) enhance congressional analysis and decision making in the
approval of budgets by improving the quality of budget presentation and fostering legislative competence in
budget review; and (iii) strengthen long term budget execution by making budgets more transparent and
predictable.  This would include gradually replacing case-by-case cash authorizations with cash flow
programming as well as using multiyear programming to promote more rational inter-temporal planning. The
IRP will support this effort through the organizational restructuring efforts within the MOF and other pilot lines
agencies.  This involves reforms in the structure and functioning of the MOF's substantive national budget
operations. To initiate this process the Ministry is already conducting a zero-based budgeting exercise for 2000 to
better identify current spending activities and future priorities. Delegation of responsibility over the budget will
increase as the oversight capabilities provided by the new financial management systems are developed and the
MOF gains confidence in these reformed line agencies.
Limited Accountability. There does not exist in most agencies a focus on performance and results. Evaluation
of staff in an organized and objective manner is non-existent, and agency performance likewise is rarely assessed
or reflected in national budget decisions. The lack of incentives undermines performance and efforts to improve
service delivery. A tradition of excessive centralization, bureaucratic rules, and distrust of citizens and civil
servants alike further inhibits initiative and performance.
To reinforce the reorientation toward results and client service facilitated by the financial management and human
resources reforms of the IRP, the Government plans to create a national evaluation system to explicitly promote a
performance culture. Located in the Ministry of the Presidency and reporting directly to the President and the
oversight National Integrity Commission, a core group of staff will seek to identify key performance indicators
for each agency in collaboration with those agencies and the Ministry of Finance. Emphasis would be placed on
indicators that are monitorable, and critical to the attainment of the agency's mission. Performance would be
measured by ministries' annual operating plans, budget outturns (supported by implementation of the ILACO
project), agency reports, and through citizen and customer surveys. A National Evaluation Report would be
published annually. The evaluation system would support a budgeting by results approach, help track the
implementation of the IRP supported organizational reforms, and increase citizen awareness of their rights for
service delivery. It is anticipated that implementation of the evaluation system would be initiated in a positive
and cooperative manner with line agencies with the aim of increasing confidence in the use of such indicators as a
management tool. Poor performance in meeting indicators would be used to trigger remedial measures and
increased efforts, not necessarily reductions in budget allocations. The goals are positive reinforcement of
initiatives and risk taking, and a degree of competition within the public sector, without creating disincentives to
ambitious goal setting and honest reporting. This national evaluation effort will be especially relevant in the pilot
agencies which will be rationalizing their missions, reorganizing their structure and functions, and reorienting
their operations toward client service and results.
Corruption. Corruption appears to be rampant within certain sections of the public administration, confirmed by
surveys financed by WBI and internal Bolivian studies. Citizens regularly complain about the police and low
level government staff while the business community targets Customs and Internal Revenue as rife with
corruption with serious implications for confidence, fiscal performance, and macroeconomic stability.
The Government is working to design and implement a National Integrity Program (NIP). On September 21,
1998 an inter-institutional agreement (Vice Presidency, mninistries of the Presidency, Finance, and Justice,
Attorney General, Comptroller General's Office, President of the Senate, President of the House of
Representatives, Supreme Court, and Judicial Council) established a high level National Integrity Commission
(CNI) chaired by the Vice President to oversee a major anti-corruption effort. A national integrity workshop was



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 7
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
held in November, 1998 with representatives of civil society and the government, with strong support from WBI
to devise a comprehensive NIP aiming at changing public and civil service attitudes and behavior. This program
encompasses a series of reforms, specific anti-corruption initiatives, and in general a redefined relationship
between the government and society. To aid this effort the IRP would support legal reforms, public education,
streamlining of bureaucratic procedures, procurement reform, capacity building in the Ombudsperson's office to
encourage denunciation of corruption, institutional strengthening in the Comptroller General's Office to improve
its capacity in forensic audits techniques, and the establishment of information systems to disclose assets and
incomes of public officials. An important aspect of the IRP will also include a social communication effort to
encourage ethical behavior and explain citizens their rights and responsibilities, the scope and character of the
changes being initiated, the progress achieved and the challenges remaining.
Poor service delivery by organizations. With a few notable exceptions (the Central Bank, the Office of the
Comptroller General, and the Electoral Commission among others) public sector agencies do not perform
adequately in delivering services to citizens or other units of government, providing policy advice, or regulatory
oversight. State organizations suffer from serious structural deficiencies. Key among them are: (i) many
ministries are not fulfilling their stated missions nor ensuring that their activities reflect current Government
priorities; (ii) legal mandates are confusing and sometimes overlapping; (iii) human resources are weak and
subject to high turnover; (iv) core management systems are absent, facilitating organizational fragmentation
within agencies with large numbers of autonomous "management units" pursuing independent agendas; (v)
inadequate mechanisms for target setting and performance measurement, poor information systems, and the lack
of feedback into the budgetary process attenuate performance and accountability; (vi) various administrative
services are provided within agencies and would be best out-sourced to the private sector; (vii) a high proportion
of donor funding to total resources available to some ministries increases the influence of donors' interests and
objectives, which may diverge with those of the Government, heightening confusion and fragmentation; and (viii)
excessive resort to the creation and elimination of ministries depending on the perceived short term political needs
of the Government's coalition of parties.
Given the widespread demand for improved and honest service delivery, the Government has decided to embark
on this phase of state modernization by seeking to implement in a coherent fashion all of the critical systemic
reforms in specific organizations. As such, organizational reform would be at the heart of the state modernization
program and the proposed APC/IRP. It would aim at creating results oriented organizations which would provide
improved services and act as tangible models for expanding reform to other agencies. The goal, under the
philosophy of the SAFCO law of normative centralization and operational decentralization, is to increase the
functional discretion of line ministries to meet their mission goals, subject to improved accountability systems and
oversight by the rector organizations. The success of the model agencies in terms of public awareness of
improved service delivery would be the best guarantee that the specific adjustments in individual agencies
(including the recruitment and retention of qualified staff) and the overall APC focus on behavioral and
institutional reforms will be maintained through changes in national administrations.
The Government has identified possible candidate agencies to initiate the reform process in this first phase
project, including the Ministries of Finance (including Internal Revenue and Customs Services), Agriculture,
Housing, Sustainable Development, and Education. They were carefully selected through a matrix process, with
input from bilateral donors, giving primary emphasis to the criteria of agency leadership and commitment to
reform, and the agency's critical role in the institutional reform process. In addition, given the importance of the
decentralization process in Bolivia, a prefecture government will be selected, with the assistance of bilateral
donors and the Bank, taking into consideration synergy possibilities from existing institutional capacity
strengthening projects, as well as leadership commitment and potential for success. The number of organizations
to be restructured will depend on several factors including the government's fiscal capacity to fund on a
sustainable basis increased salaries in the pilot agencies, project implementation capacity and experience,
emerging reform opportunities, additional donor financing, and the costs of reform derived from the ARI process.
The Government has indicated its intention to initiate the restructuring process in the Finance Ministry given its
importance to financial management, budgeting reform, and revenue collection. The project currently estimates
total (Government, bilateral donor, and Bank) funding sufficient to fund the Ministry of Finance (including
Internal Revenue and Customs Services) plus four of the remaining candidate ministries and one prefecture.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 8
Country: Bolivia                                               Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Organizational reforms are aimed at three key elements: (i) legal framework reform relating to the mission and
functioning of the organization including the elaboration and implementation of the regulatory structure
envisioned under the 1990 SAFCO law; (ii) organizational restructuring and strengthening including completing
job descriptions of all positions, changed management layering and reporting responsibilities, management
information systems, business process reengineering; and (iii) human resources renewal. The process would
commence with diagnostic reviews of the mission, structure, and function of the agency, with a view toward
identifying and eliminating duplication and fragmentation, contracting out or privatizing functions wherever
appropriate, strengthening program formulation, human resources capacity, and financial management,
reengineering business processes, and creating evaluation programs within the agency to strengthen the
institution's ability to execute a well defined mission. Based on such studies the pilot agency would design an
Organizational Reform Agreement (ARI) laying out specific actions to be undertaken to reform the agency with
the aim of achieving measurable improvements in program effectiveness (including three key services per agency
to be tracked as APC performance indicators). The ARIs would be reviewed and approved by the policy level
National Integrity Commission, as well as the Bank. They would be used as operational documents whose design
and negotiation as well as implementation over an anticipated three year period would require the conmnitment
and ownership of the pilot ministry. They would also serve as transition instruments, acclimating the agencies to
more rigorous development, achievement, and evaluation of performance results, and serve as yardsticks to
trigger disbursements from the IRP and subsequent phases of the APC.
The restructuring process would put particular emphasis on change management in order to spark the culture
change permitted by new management systems, staff, and compensation levels. Explicit change management
efforts, drawing on the wealth of experiences from private sector and other organizations inside and outside
Bolivia, would be pursued in individual agencies and supported by the CNI across all reforming agencies.
Service evaluations in conjunction with the National Evaluation system would track the process of reform,
provide feedback, and help implant a focus on service delivery. Advisory groups representing clients of pilot
agencies (for example the Customs Council with respect to the Customs Service) would also give feedback, and
reinforcement, to each pilot agency.
The project would provide explicit incentives to pilot agencies meeting ARI targets by providing them greater
scope for budgetary formulation and execution, increased responsibility for human resource management,
improved pay, and increased training. Specifically, the project would fund technical assistance, training, and
information technology within the ARI process. The Bank and bilateral donors would also finance, on a declining
basis, a portion the incremental recurrent costs for increased salaries for managerial and professional positions.
Professional salaries are projected to more than double on average to a level equal to the 64th percentile of private
sector wages. The Government believes that the non-monetary benefits of public service will reduce the
remaining gap somewhat, but within the fiscal constraints explained below will seek to adjust salaries further if
possible. Salary decompression will also be promoted in order to better reflect market prices for skilled managers
and scarce skills such as information technology specialists. This investment is critical to ensure that the new
organizations can attract and retain adequate staff to implement the systemic reforms and create sustainable
results oriented organizations. By providing funding for salaries through the government (rather than through the
facade of widespread "consultancies"), the process would address the key human resources problem without the
current complications of internal inequity and low morale, donor driven staffing patterns, and inappropriate
incentives to staff performance. External funding would be provided on a declining basis designed to disappear
fully at the end of the project when the salaries would be fully financed by the Govemment. The precise extent,
phase in, and funding implications of these personnel decisions will depend in part on the results of diagnostic
studies determining the staffing needs and existing skill mixes in each agency.
The fiscal implications of the expected higher salaries have been carefully analyzed by the Government and Bank,
and reviewed by the 1MF. An indicative plan has been prepared to raise salaries in a manner consistent with
prospective bilateral and Bank financing, the Government's macro-economic targets and fiscal capacity, as well
as the pace of agency reforms (see Annex 4). In light of the expected reductions in staffing the overall wage bill
for the central government is expected to decline from 0.77 percent of GDP in 1998 to 0.62 percent in 2008. This
projection, which takes into account inflation, the Government's liabilities under its social security reform, as well



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 9
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
as improved revenue collection and efficiency gains, is deemed to be realistic and sustainable.  Credit
disbursement to support the new civil servants and their enhanced salaries would be conditioned on semiannual
performance and financial audits of agencies' adherence to ARI targets and staffing levels. Care will be taken in
these audits to review the hiring and maintenance of qualified staff without regard to political, gender, or ethnic
background.
The ARI process would be undertaken in all pilot agencies seeking broad based institutional/organizational
reforms and not addressing specific sectoral issues which may go beyond the funding capacity of the IRP, policy
mandate of the National Integrity Commission, or absorptive capacity of the project officials. In the case of the
Customs Service, however, the IRP would fund some substantive reforms and investments in line with a
comprehensive program developed by the Government, Bank, and IMF, and supported by several bilateral
donors. These investments are considered justified given their critical impact on Customs Service and its
importance to the Government's (and IRP' s) revenue and anti-corruption goals. The extent of the ARI process for
the selected prefecture government may also diverge slightly from the ARI model. Decentralization is a major
national goal in Bolivia, authorized by landmark legislation in the mid-1990s. Its ultimate shape and the precise
nature of relations and responsibilities among the central, prefecture (a regional unit whose governor is appointed
by the President), and independent municipal governments are being debated and refined through various national
initiatives and projects financed by donors and international agencies, including the Bank. The National Integrity
Commission plans to pilot the ARI process in a prefecture (to be determined in consultation with donors which
have ongoing projects in several candidate regional governments) during this first phase of the APC. This effort
will be preceded, however, by a careful assessment of the changing legal and policy framework for prefectures so
as to minimize the risks of duplication, policy confusion, or waste.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project builds on several projects and sector work. The projects include the existing integrated
financial management and judicial reform projects, sectoral projects financed by the Bank and other donors, and
considerable diagnostic work for a Civil Service and Administration Reform (CSAR) Project. Sector work
includes WBI's work with the National Integrity Program, the 1999 Public Expenditure Review, and the National
Institutional Review. Several strategic choices were made:
1.    The government faced an early decision whether to proceed with the CSAR, which aimed to finance on a
declining basis the salaries of competitively recruited civil servants placed in key positions throughout the central
government. In fact some 260 staff had already been hired competitively and placed in a variety of agencies,
financed in part by contributions from bilateral donors and a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance. After
careful consideration the new Government asked the Bank in 1997 to suspend preparation of the CSAR project.
It viewed the project as fiscally unsustainable, too narrowly focused on human resources without the
complementary reforms in management systems, culture and organizational changes, as well as dependent on an
overly centralized personnel management system. The Government decided to significantly change the approach
and to include the missing aspects by implementing a new human resources system in organizations undergoing a
restructuring process. This would direct new staff into reforming agencies to better ensure a critical mass of
qualified employees subject to the new incentive structure of performance evaluation, national integrity, and
decentralized financial management. The Government is seeking to maintain bilateral donor funding for key civil
service positions outside of the pilot ministries during the interim period before these agencies are restructured.
2.     Concerns were raised regarding the need to embark on a costly and possibly disruptive program of staff
recruitment requiring all staff to reapply together with outside candidates in a process of merit recruitment. The
Government recognized, however, that the low capacity of existing staff in many agencies (and sometimes with
serious concerns regarding their honesty) required a sifting process to ensure the credibility of the program. It is
anticipated that, in order to achieve quality and promote transparency, private sector personnel firms would assist
in the identification and testing of candidates. Comprehensive and landmark legislation to be approved by the
Congress prior to credit effectiveness mandates a merit based civil service providing for an administrative career
track based on results and performance evaluation, and an independent appeals process. The aim of the law is to
signal a broad based commitment to end the patronage system within the government and to establish a new



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 10
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
human resources regime focused on employee efficiency, operational effectiveness, enhanced transparency, and
protection of the public interest.
3.     The pilot ministries were selected from agencies with a proven leadership committed to reform and/or
critical to the project's success. Potential candidate agencies already identified include rector (Finance) and line
(Housing and Agriculture) organizations and government priorities (revenues needs dictating reform of the tax
administration agencies, and poverty alleviation prompting support for the Sustainable Development and
Education ministries). The project design encourages agencies not currently designated as pilots to enter into the
ARI process if and when additional financing from the Government, bilateral donors, other Bank projects, or the
IRP itself are secured. Bilateral donors which are co-financing the project were most concerned to extend the
reform process to the Ministry of Sustainable Development (an agency with important responsibilities in the areas
of indigenous development, gender advancement, and environmental protection) as well as the Ministry of
Education.
4.     The bulk of public employees (especially teachers and health workers) are under separate employment
schemes. The Government is addressing their salary issues through sectoral reform programs supported by the
Bank designed to decentralize education and health workers to municipal governments.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The APC contemplates three separate projects over a ten year period. The first phase Institutional Reform Project
would initiate fundamental institutional reforms (changes in the legal and incentive frameworks) in the key areas
of human resource management, budgeting, national integrity, and personnel and organizational evaluations. The
integrated implementation of these reforms plus accelerated deconcentration of functional responsibilities would
be tested and consolidated in the pilot agencies, including at least one prefecture government. Subsequent
operations would extend these organizational reforms to other entities (and deepen the institutional changes as
needed) while applying lessons learned in the preceding phase. Phase II is expected to address all remaining
prefecture governments plus the Ministry of Health and several smaller agencies, and Phase III will complete the
reform process in the remaining entities.
Trigger Indicators for Phase 2                        Means of Verification
*  Full operation in five pilot agencies of integrated financial  *  Annual meetings with technical
management system  (ILACO) accounting, cash management,         staff of ARI agencies
and internal audit procedures and (SIIF) information system.  *  Annual National Evaluation
Reports
*  Use of budgeting by results and medium term budget framework  *  Project progress reports
in five pilot agencies.                                     *  Reports from rector and pilot
agencies
*  Full operation in all pilot agencies of civil service system with at *  National budgets
least 60 percent of their professional staff incorporated into the  *  CGR reports
new regime; and the Treasury fully meeting its share of
additional salary costs.
*  National Integrity Plan operating in pilot and rector agencies
indicated by functioning of Asset and Income Declaration
system, forensic audit system functioning in Comptroller
General's Office, and three major bureaucratic procedures
revised to reduce average service delivery time by 50 percent.
*  Performance  evaluation  system  functioning  indicated  by
publication of annual National Evaluation Reports.
*  Results oriented agencies indicated, in at least five agencies, by:
restructuring and staff adjustments completed under ARIs;



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 11
Country: Bolivia                                               Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Trigger Indicators for Phase 2                     Means of Verification
agencies managing the hiring, promotion, pay, and evaluation of
their human resources; performance oriented management and
evaluation systems operating; and 20 percent improvement in at
least three of five critical performance indicators (identified
during preparation of ARIs) measuring service delivery in each
agency.
* Revenue collection in 2003 from Internal Revenue and Customs
at 8.7 percent and 6.4 percent of GDP respectively.
Trigger Indicators for Phase 3                     Means of Verification
*  Full operation in all Phase 1 and two thirds of Phase 2 agencies  *  Annual meetings with technical
of integrated financial management (ILACO) accounting, cash  staff of ARI agencies
management, and  internal audit procedures and  (SIIF) *  Annual National Evaluation
information system.                                         Reports
*  Project progress reports
*  Full operation in all Phase 1 and two thirds of Phase 2 agencies  *  Reports from rector and pilot
of budgeting by results and medium term budget framework    agencies
*  CGR reports
*  Full operation in all Phase 1 and Phase 2 agencies of civil service  *  National budget
system with 100 percent of Phase 1 and 60 percent of Phase 2  *  Regional government budgets
agencies' professional staff incorporated into the new regime;
and the Treasury fully meeting its share of additional salary
costs.
*  National Integrity Plan operating in all Phase 1 and Phase 2
agencies indicated by functioning of Asset and Income
Declaration system, forensic audit system functioning in
Comptroller General's Office, and three major bureaucratic
procedures revised to reduce average service delivery time by 50
percent;
*  Performance  evaluation  system  functioning  indicated  by
publication of annual National Evaluation Reports.
*  Results oriented agencies indicated, in all Phase 1 and two thirds
of Phase 2 agencies by: restructuring and staff adjustments
completed under ARIs; agencies managing the hiring, promotion,
pay, and evaluation of their human resources; performance
oriented management and evaluation systems operating; and 20
percent improvement in at least three of five critical performance
indicators (identified during preparation of ARIs) measuring
service delivery in each agency.
* Revenue collection in 2006 from Internal Revenue and Customs
at 9.6 percent and 7 percent of GDP respectively.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 12
Country: Bolivia                                                      Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
C: Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 1):
Component                 Category    Indicative Costs   % of    Bank-        % of
(US$M)       Total   financing     Bank-
(US$M)    financing
Performance Evaluation              Policy,                1.8        2.5        1.2         3.8
Institution
.  Create legal framework            Building
* Design evaluation systems
* Rector unit capacity building
National Integrity                  Policy,               5.7         7.9       4.0         12.5
Institution
*  Legal framework reform            Building
. Development of prevention
policies and mechanisms
* Ombudsperson's Office
* Streamlining of bureaucratic
procedures
. Procurement reform
. Social communication
Civil Service                       Policy,               2.4         3.3        1.7         5.3
Institution
*  Legal framework reform            Building
* Personnel systems development
* Rector institution capacity building
Organizational Reform               Policy,              59.3        82.4      23.2         72.5
Institution
.  Restructuringlstrengthening of    Building
pilot agencies
*  Support for professional cadre
positions in pilot ministries
*  Budgeting reform
Reform Management                   Program and           2.8         3.9        1.9         5.9
Project
.  Project coordination unit        Management
Total         72.0      100.0       32.0       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
Covered in parts B.2 and B.3
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the project will be the creation of a more effective, efficient, and transparent public sector.
Systemic reforms in human resource management, budgeting, results oriented financial and program
management, and reductions in corruption within the context of modernized agencies will enable the Bolivian
Government to better meet its poverty alleviation goals. The primary beneficiaries will be the restructured
government agencies. Secondary beneficiaries will be Bolivian citizens and investors who will receive improved
services at lower cost from the public sector.



Project Appraisal Document'                                                             Page 13
Country: Bolivia                                               Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Coordination and Management. The Government has created a National Integrity Commission (CNI)
to oversee its program of state modernization as well as its anti-corruption effort. The explicit linkage between
these two efforts highlights their close interrelationship and should provide momentum, synergy, and practical
integration. The Vice President of the Republic chairs the commission, which is comprised of the Minister of the
Presidency, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice, a delegate from the Senate, a delegate from the House
of Representatives, a delegate from the Supreme Court, the Comptroller General of the Republic, the Attorney
General, and a representative of the Judicial Counsel. Consultative groups representing civil society (including
the Church, media, labor unions, and the private sector) and external donors are being established to advise the
CNI and a series of conferences organized during 1999 with these groups to help support the design and
implementation of the National Integrity Plan. The Commission is expected to play a key role in critical policy
decisions relating to IRP implementation, review and approval of ARIs, and oversight of implementation of
horizontal project components. It will serve as the focal point for state reform, ensuring that other programs and
projects under the supervision of the Government support the policy guidelines of the NIP.
A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) reporting directly to the CNI will be responsible for administration of the
project, as well as serving as the Secretariat to the CNI. The PCU will manage the procurement and disbursement
aspects related to contracting of consultants, financing of salaries, and the provision of goods and equipment
under this project. The PCU will coordinate the provision of technical assistance services to the beneficiary
agencies in accordance with procedures specified in a project implementation manual. The comprehensive scope
of the project necessary to effect the interrelated systemic reforms will require significant use of both international
and national consultants. A primary task of the PCU will be to carefully monitor such activities. Beneficiary
implementing agencies will be responsible for drafting terms of reference and submitting these to the PCU for
review. The PCU will ensure that bidding, procurement, contracting, and disbursement takes place within Bank
guidelines and the IRP credit agreement. The PCU will also be responsible for preparing or reviewing
specifications for all equipment purchases.
The PCU will be headed by a Project Director, and include a procurement expert, chief financial officer, and
experienced professionals assigned to oversee the following project activities: State Modernization, National
Integrity, and Social Communications. In addition, the PCU will work closely with the management of the
LACO (integrated financial management) and Judicial Reform projects to ensure their integration into the PSM
program. Each agency implementing restructuring agreements would have change management teams to oversee
the restructuring effort. These teams in large agencies would manage and coordinate their respective project
components through small individual units, reporting to the PCU. The PCU would provide more direct support to
teams in the smaller agencies.
In line with Bolivia's status as a pilot under the Bank's new Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF), a
joint Government/Bank team is expected to be created to support the Institutionality Pillar of the Government's
development program. A full time Bank co-leader of this team will reside in La Paz with the aim of helping
supervise the integration of all project components involving institutional change and capacity building including
integrated financial management, judicial reform, decentralization, and reforms within sector ministries in
addition to the IRP.
Bilateral donors (including Denmark, Germany, Japan, and Sweden) have played an important role in the
development of the project by providing financing, and/or participating in missions, and in project negotiations.
Representatives of co-financiers will participate in the supervision of the IRP through the Institutionality Pillar
work. This will include quarterly joint meetings between the Government and its financiers as well as joint
annual reviews of the project. Funding expected to be provided by Denmark and Sweden will be administered by
the Bank with the aim of minimizing the transaction costs of the Government and PCU.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing. While the PCU has gained experience in managing accounting
and procurement matters through the execution of the Project Preparation Facility effective since June, 1996 the
current financial management system needs to be reinforced and expanded. The PCU will have a financial
department headed by a qualified financial officer and staffed by an accountant to keep adequate records and



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 14
Country: Bolivia                                               Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
prepare the financial statements, and auxiliary staff to execute financial operations and provide control over
project assets. The PCU will have a double entry automated accounting system comprising a general ledger and
supporting subsidiary records. The account structure used to record expenditures will comprise 3 classifications:
the government budget classifications; the component and sub-component of the project document; and the cost
categories. The automated accounting system will be Y2K compliant and contain the required security features.
The PCU will develop and document the detailed procedures of all financial operations: cash receipts,
disbursements, control over advances, replenishment procedures, account reconciliation and controls, and
reporting requirements. These procedures and job descriptions will be included in the Operations Manual. The
manual will also provide the application of the SAFCO laws. Each unit would prepare six-monthly progress
reports with procurement and financial indicators required for Bank review during the execution of the project.
The PCU will have in place, by effectiveness, both the staff and financial management systems satisfactory to the
Bank. It has undergone an assessment by a Bank Financial Management Specialist and has presented to the Bank
a satisfactory action plan to develop its capacity to prepare quarterly Performance Management Reports within 12
months.
External audits in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank will be engaged annually and the
opinion with the related statements presented to the Bank within 4 months of the fiscal year end. In addition to
the financial year end audit two concurrent audits will be conducted yearly to ensure acceptability of project
financial management, pilot agency adherence to ARI conditions, and incremental recurrent costs associated with
pilot agency salaries.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. In line with the APC concept, special emphasis will be placed on
continuous monitoring and project supervision, identification and incorporation of lessons learned, and consensus
building. Performance indicators to measure inputs and process, and outputs and outcomes are defined in Annex
1. Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement (attached to Annex 1) includes annual performance
benchmarks to justify continued credit disbursements. Diagnostic assessments of pilot agencies undertaken as
part of the ART process as well as surveys to establish baseline data, conducted during the first year of project
implementation under the direction of the Performance Evaluation Unit, would help identify additional
performance indicators which will validate continued disbursements to pilot agencies. Subsequent surveys, as
well as the National Evaluation Reports and national budget documents, would measure the evolution of service
delivery, transparency, and efficiency of pilot agency operations.
Using these sources of information plus intense project oversight by the PCU and CNI, the coordinators of each
component in the PCU would be responsible for gathering and sharing information from pilot agencies and rector
institutions. To promote project integration and learning across agencies, semi-annual workshops with all entities
participating in the project would be held to review progress achieved and decide on necessary adjustments,
discuss the draft progress reports, and review proposals for the following year. The oversight provided by the
CNI, plus its consultative groups from civil society and external donors, offer additional vehicles for feedback and
development of broader political consensus during project execution. Annual Project Plans (APP) prepared for
each forthcoming project year would include an evaluation of lessons learned in the past year plus detailed
activities and costs, and expected government, Bank, and donor contributions. They would be discussed and
agreed with co-financiers, and then submitted to the Bank for review each year no later than November 30. Joint
semi-annual project review missions would be supplemented by project supervision visits, oversight from the
resident mission by the Institutionality pillar team leader, as well as quarterly meetings in La Paz of the
authorities, Bank, and donor representatives. Specific trigger indicators (see B.4 above) would be used to assess
achievements at the end of each phase and to decide on the financing for subsequent phases. A project launch
workshop consisting of the PCU, rector institutions, and pilot agencies would be organized by the PCU to
reinforce implementation and define monitoring responsibilities. Upon project completion the CNI would submit
to the Bank, six months before the closure of the credit, the project implementation completion report and a plan
for the subsequent phase of the APC.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 15
Country: Bolivia                                                          Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternative considered was to design a traditional Technical Assistance Credit rather than an Adaptable
Program Credit (APC). The Government, project team, and Bank management concurred that the APC was the
more suitable instrument. First, the Public Sector Modernization program is less amendable to the traditional
input driven technical assistance project as there is a need to address broader issues of civil service pay as well as
to ensure a flexible and long term commitment by the borrower and Bank to this process. The program would
support a complex and comprehensive reform effort covering a wide range of stakeholders with differing interests
(citizens, civil society, government agencies, civil servants, donors, several Admninistrations) and must provide for
a range of possible interventions. The APC would give the flexibility to adapt program design and financing
using the pilot agencies as learning tools. Given the challenges involved, a ten year program is better suited to
achieve development objectives at the borrower's pace and capacity. As experience builds and institutional
capability increases during the implementation period, the program can be accelerated. Likewise, the use of the
APC would help build consensus and ownership among critical stakeholders as to the importance of moving
ahead with public sector modernization. Finally, the APC would serve as a useful vehicle for coordinating donor
activities and enlisting their support for the program.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                        Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed pro ects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Overly centralized and cash-based financial  Public Sector Financial        S               S
management systems limiting             Decentralization (integrated
responsiveness of executing agencies    financial management)
Weak, non-transparent, unresponsive     Judicial Reform I and II (the       S               S
judicial system                         latter in preparation)
Deficient legal framework, weak rector  Regulatory Reform and               S               S
organizations, and excessive state role in  Privatization
the financial sector
Weak municipal governments              Municipal Development n      In Preparation
Other external development agencies
Improving customs administration        IMF, IDB, Japan, Sweden
Improving internal revenue administration    IDB
Strengthening capacity of the Sustainable    GTZ
Development Ministry
Developing capacity of selected prefectures  Denmark
and municipalities
Strengthen governance                   IDB
Improve the administration of justice   USAID
Funding of new Civil Service positions  Denmark, Germany, Sweden
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 16
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Key lessons learned in World Bank projects and applied in this operation include the need for borrower
commitment, strong project leadership, and an appropriate macro-economic framework. As indicated above the
Government has established a high level oversight commission and created a strong project coordinating unit
within the CNI. Project supervision will also be intense by the joint institutionality pillar team to be created under
the CDF initiative.
Applying lessons from Bank's experience is more problematic given the rudimentary state of global knowledge of
successful public sector modernization projects. The lessons and behaviors internalized in the developed world
after decades of experience and governance experimentation are unlikely to be replicated quickly, even if deemed
to be appropriate models. Technical assistance, duplication of model laws, imported information technology,
however necessary, have been insufficient in many operations to effect a sustainable change in behavior. This is
reflected in the key messages emerging from the 1997 World Development Report and the 1998 Latin America
and Caribbean Region Study "Beyond the Washington Consensus--Institutions Matter". In line with the WDR,
the project: (i) builds on the redefinition of the role of the Bolivian state, by supporting decentralization,
contracting out, and privatization in the pilot agencies; (ii) seeks to match the role of the state to its capability, in
this case a small state with a normative role in economic development seeking to assure the transparent rule of
law, (iii) building a better public sector in the remaining core activities by strengthening service delivery through
various measures including modernized and open financial management, results-oriented policies for
organizations and personnel, and explicit evaluation initiatives based in part on citizen inputs; and (iv) sequencing
reforms cautiously by targeting key rector and line agencies, rolling out reforms as capacity increases, and using a
ten year program to test, refine, and expand the modernization effort.
The Bolivian authorities, anxious to strengthen the country's ability to compete in the global economy, are
dedicated to creating political and economic systems that respect rules.  Reflecting the Bank's regional
experience, they recognize that merely changing formal rules, within a culture and incentive structure that values
informality, is doomed. Therefore the project aims at changing incentives to affect behavior. The strong focus on
civil service selection, contracted tenure, and pay, budgeting by results, personnel evaluation systems, practical
measures to prevent and prosecute corruption, and targeted information technology investments all aim to create
new results oriented organizations. A key challenge will be to ensure that these beachheads are then expanded
rather than become isolated. The emphasis placed on learning lessons and building consensus, citizen surveys
and published evaluations, as well as the presence of the Bank and donors through the ten year period should help
expand these successes.
Lessons from credit administration in Bolivia have also been addressed. Delays in the procurement of goods and
services have been experienced in previous projects due to weaknesses in the project unit, the organization of
procurement, and/or the payment system. This project will aim to remedy this through the training of professional
staff in Bank procedures and the development of operational guidelines prior to project effectiveness. Particular
attention will be placed on the nexus of disbursement procedures, financial reporting, and auditing in light of the
proposed partial funding of salaries. While problems with the prompt delivery of audit reports have been
experienced in some projects, holding the audit firm accountable directly to the project unit and the Bank has
largely resolved this difficulty. The joint institutionality pillar team is expected to significantly strengthen
supervision and the ability to identify and overcome problems, to take advantage of emerging opportunities, and
to promote synergy among separate Bank projects with capacity building and institutional reform components.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government identified institutional strengthening at the beginning of its tenure as a key pillar in its
development program. It has created a National Integrity Commission and National Integrity Plan to help guide
its implementation. The most senior officials of government have been actively involved in the design of this
project, including drafting of this PAD. A strong counterpart team has been established. Passage of the landmark
civil service legislation will confirm a broad based buy-in by key stakeholders and political parties for
fundamental institutional reform. The Government intends to submit Customs reform legislation to make the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 17
Country: Bolivia                                                  Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
agency more autonomous, self financed, and with leadership nominated by the President (from a list of candidates
proposed by a mixed public and private sector council) and approved by the Congress (a significant change from
current practice). Similar reforms will be proposed for the Internal Revenue Service. The Government's Letter of
Development Program signed by the Vice President and Minister of Finance carefully lays out the Government's
vision for public sector modernization over the next 10 years (see Annex 11). The Government also signaled its
commitment to the operation and the broader reform program at the Consultative Group meeting held in Paris in
April 1998. In La Paz the authorities have met on a regular basis with a broad group of donors who strongly
support the Government's program and who will provide co-financing for the project. Finally, the government is
seeking to expand participation in the national integrity program to stakeholders from throughout the country,
including various political parties, the media, civil society and external donors.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Catalytic Role in Project Design. Bank staff have played a catalytic role in the design and implementation of the
reform program. The presence of the project team provided an impetus to bring stakeholders together. The most
important value added by the Bank would be the program credibility and consistency offered by the Bank's
presence during the ten year period of APC implementation. The Bank's leading role in public sector
modernization in Bolivia reflects its comparative advantages in: (i) technically sound advice; (ii) rapid transfer of
innovations and lessons learned from similar experiences elsewhere; (iii) ability to address cross cutting issues
with projects in several line ministries, integrated financial management, judicial reform, as well as in its relations
with the IMF. The funding to be provided by the Bank in the area of staff salaries, albeit on a declining basis, will
be essential for creating the critical mass of staff necessary to effect a change in service delivery, in giving
confidence to Bolivian professionals to seek public employment in the restructuring organizations, and in
catalyzing resources from external donors.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
Economic evaluation methodology:
[ ] Cost benefit     [ ] Cost effectiveness    [X] Other [Fiscal Impact]
The project is expected to have a substantial positive fiscal impact resulting from the reforms aimed at improving
effectiveness in internal revenue and customs collection. With regard to the other components it is difficult to
quantify the potential fiscal impact. In the area of Civil Service reform, substantial allocative efficiency gains are
expected from the strengthening of human resource policy and management. The anticipated increased wage bill
stemming from adjusted salaries would be partially offset by anticipated reductions in the work force. The
Government is expected to fully fund increased civil service salaries by the end of the APC as the wage bill falls
as a percentage of GDP. In the area of organizational restructuring, it is expected that the diagnostic studies of the
pilot agencies will provide the government with sufficient basis for identifying and eliminating duplication and
obsolescence in public sector programs. Services to the public offered by these agencies are expected to improve
as result of the project's efforts to redefine functions, increase capacity, and rely more heavily on market
mechanisms. The project could also provide support to the government's intention to streamline the number and
composition of ministries with further positive impact on fiscal savings.
2. Financial: Not Applicable
3. Technical:
The tasks to be undertaken under this program are demanding and will require substantial input from high quality
consultants with experience in organizational restructuring, the design of a modern civil service, anti-corruption
activities, and social communications. The work program will rely on internationally experienced and national
consultants working closely with government counterparts. Key terms of reference for consulting assistance to be



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 18
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
undertaken under the project have been completed.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Under the guidance and oversight of the National Integrity Commission chaired by the
Vice President, the separate project components would be executed by several agencies. The Commission itself,
supported by the PCU, would execute the national integrity component. The Ministry of Finance would be
responsible for civil service reform (at least pending creation of the rector organization), oversight of the
extension of integrated financial management to pilot agencies, budget reform, and organizational restructuring of
the Ministry. The Ministry of the Presidency would develop the National Evaluation system as well as certain
aspects of the national integrity program including simplification of bureaucratic procedures. The Comptroller
General's Office would take the lead within the National Integrity Program for forensic audit and asset declaration
initiatives. Each pilot agency would execute its own restructuring program with close support and supervision
provided by the Commission and PCU.
b. Project management: The Secretariat to the National Integrity Commission, headed by a permanent project
director, serves as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) The PCU will play an active coordinating and oversight
role between responsible agencies, the Bank, and consultants. Project implementation will be helped significantly
by the fact that Government staff have had a lead role in the development of this reform strategy. Agreements
have been reached on the staffing of the PCU. Both a project implementation plan and operations manual have
been prepared and a workshop is planned soon after credit effectiveness to support project launch.
5. Social
As organizational restructuring progresses, employees in pilot agencies who do not meet professional or integrity
standards, skill mix requirements or fit within reduced staffing limits will be redundant. Although there are
neither strong unions nor indemnification requirements in the Bolivian public sector, the authorities have
indicated their intention to manage the staffing adjustments in a manner to limit disruptions, possibly including
the provision of training resources. The Bank will review these plans with the aim of ameliorating social costs.
Significant and positive social benefits are expected as the restructured and strengthened agencies provide more
efficient, effective, and transparent public services to citizens. They will also provide more market related
compensation and increased job security to their staff.
6. Environmental
a. Environmental issues:     Environmental Category       [ ] A   [ ] B   {X] C
The proposed project is expected to have no environmental impact.
7. Participatory Approach
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
As described above (section D.4), project preparation and initiation has involved key stakeholders as a critical
element for success. These include senior Executive Branch authorities including the President, Vice President,
and several Ministers, staff of pilot agencies, donors, and, through the CNI, representatives of civil society and
other branches of Government including the judiciary and legislative branches. The national evaluation reports,
citizen surveys undertaken by the CNI, and feedback to social communications campaigns will provide critical
information on performance and reform  results as perceived by the public.  The successful design and
implementation of ARIs will depend greatly on the commitment and ownership of the process by the affected
agencies. The emphases on learning and consensus building necessarily will require wide participation in, and
review of, project execution with the aim of applying successes across agencies and reacting quickly to reform
opportunities. It is expected that the program will seek its first models from existing successful agencies in
Bolivia, eschewing the automatic importation of external models which could risk reform realism or sense of
ownership so needed for a national public sector modernization effort.
b. Other key stakehold'ers:
Citizens, investors and the business community, bilateral donors.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 19
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government's goal of improving the delivery of services to citizens is ambitious and requires a well
coordinated and interrelated series of legal, institutional, and procedural reforms. The sustainability of the project
will depend on: (i) the Government's commitment to implementing the proposed fundamental reforms in public
sector operations; (ii) its ability to overcome active and passive resistance and the inherent difficulties of change;
and (iii) the quality and productive utilization of the technical assistance provided. Longer term sustainability will
depend in part on: (i) maintenance of macro-economic and political stability necessary for increased business
confidence and investment; (ii) its success in creating a momentum for reform and credible examples of improved
performance that survive the next change of Government; (iii) the success of parallel programs to reform selected
public sector operations and to improve the rule of law; and (iv) the government's ability to convince the public
through word and deed that the reforms are in fact improving prospects for a majority of the population. The
project will facilitate directly the sustainability of reforms through a social communications campaign, which will
be designed to promote public understanding of and consensus among stakeholders on the objectives and benefits
of the proposed reforms.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Resistance from special interests and changes in  H       Commitment of the Bank and donors through ten
senior officials prevent or reverse advances in           year APC  program  provides  leverage  for
creating results oriented organizations.                  consolidation and continuation of reform after
change  in  administrations.     Focus  on
organizations with best chance of being
"winners". Emphasis on performance evaluation
and feedback mechanisms to adjust reform
effort. Use of change management to promote
culture change and reduce resistance.
Lack of support by key non-public sector          S       Publication of performance evaluations, use of
stakeholders of institutional and organizational          citizen   surveys,   social   communication
reforms.                                                  campaigns, focus on reforming high profile
bureaucratic processes and corrupt organizations.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Inadequate availability of counterpart funds.     S       Fiscal constraints should be eased by reforms in
tax   administration,  efficiency   gains  in
restructured agencies, and ongoing structural
adjustments supported by a Bank Structural
Adjustment credit. Careful phase in of higher
salaries in line with fiscal limits.
Insufficient implementation capacity to           M       The active support of the Vice President and key
coordinate interrelated tasks and supervise               cabinet ministers.  The role of the National
project components, complicated by turnover of            Integrity Commission to oversee and enforce
key project staff.                                        consistency  and  coordination.    Hiring  of
qualified project director and PCU staff in
consultation with the Bank. Close coordination
with Bank through frequent project supervision
and direct oversight from the institutionality
pillar team leader in the resident mission.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 20
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Risk                     Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of sustained commitment and vision for       S       Project has strong Government support. Vice
reform, or political ability to:                          President is among its key architects.  Civil
*  create and sustain merit based civil service          service reforrn program has been underway for
*  overcome resistance to anti-corruption                 24 months and is already being funded in part by
measures                                              external donors.   Passage of Civil Service
*  adhere to results of performance evaluations           legislation prior to credit effectiveness provides
*  implement restructuring of pilot agencies             framework for civil service reformn.   Anti-
*  prosecute successfully corruption and tax             corruption program, supported by WBI, has
evasion                                               attracted widespread interest from civil society.
*  implement integrated financial management             Pilot agencies have been selected based largely
reforms in pilot agencies in timely manner            on prospects for successful implementation of
restructuring and focus on results.  Judicial
reform being pursued through a separate Bank
project. Reprogramming of ILACO project is
under preparation.
Overall Risk Rating       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Several possible controversies sparked by resistance to change by special interests including political parties
desirous of protecting patronage system, smugglers and tax evaders opposing tax administration reform, corrupt
public officials and employees seeking to maintain illegal income, and public employees with inadequate skills
resisting exit from public service.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Board Presentation Condition:
- Initiation of action plan satisfactory to the Bank to redirect the integrated financial management project.
2. Other
Credit Effectiveness Condition:
* Approval of Civil Servant's Statute, satisfactory to the Bank, which creates an independent civil service
comrnission, independent appeals body, and establishes a Government Ethics Code.
Disbursement Conditions:
*  Adoption of an ARIs in each pilot agency acceptable to the Bank and satisfactory compliance with its targets.
*  Satisfactory compliance with global project performance benchmarks.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 21
Country: Bolivia                                                  Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Ronal. My
Sector Manager/Director:        Guillerm
Country Manager/Director:       Isabel Guerrero



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 22
Country: Bolivia                                                       Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 1
Institutional Reform Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Sumrnary       Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:              Sector / Country Reports:     (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
To lay the institutional  Institutional strengthening     *  Annual reports of INE and
foundations to make       indicators drawn up by              Ministry of Finance       Political and economic
development programs      international cooperation experts                             stability
effective and to combat   and the Government
poverty on a sustainable                                                                Government capacity for
basis                                                                                   setting and maintaining
coherent policy priorities
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators       Program Reports:              (from Purpose to Goal)
10 Year APC
*  Public satisfaction with    *  Polls on satisfaction with   Continuous commitment of the
To improve the delivery of    public services increased by    public services          Bolivian Government to the
public services in terms of   20% from the base line      *  Domestic and external     public sector modernization
effectiveness, efficiency,  *  Public perception of           surveys of corruption    program
quality, and transparency     corruption reduced by 30%    *  Reports by the Comptroller
from the baseline              General
*  Unqualified CGR financial    *  National Evaluation Report
audits for 75% of pilot    e  Reports by Civil Service
agencies issued for 2009       entity
*  75% of agencies operating at
levels of performance in line
with objectives agreed with
national evaluation system
and national budget
*  75% of Central Government
and prefectures staff
incorporated into the Civil
Service regime
*  Tax collection in 2008 from
Internal Revenue and
Customs at 10% and 7.4% of
GDP respectively
Project Development       Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:              (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective: Phase 1
*  Public satisfaction with    *  Initial and annual polls on   Strategy for Phase II of the
To improve the delivery of    services of pilot agencies      satisfaction with public  program is successfully
public services in terms of   increased by 20% from the       services in pilot agencies    developed
effectiveness, efficiency,    base line by 2003           *  Reports by the Comptroller
quality, and transparency in   *  Unqualified CGR financial   General
rector agencies and pilot     audits for five pilot agencies   *  Evaluations of pilot
agencies                      issued in 2003                  agencies
*  Five pilot agencies operating   *  Finance Ministry revenue
at levels of performance in    reports
line with objectives agreed
with national evaluation
system and national budget
by 2003
* Tax collection in 2003 from
Internal Revenue and
Customs at 8.7% and 6.4% of
GDP respectively



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 23
Country: Bolivia                                                      Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Narrative Sunmnary      Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
Outputs:                  Output Indicators:             Project Reports:              (from Outputs to
Objectives)
*  Performance oriented    *  National Evaluation Reports   *  National Evaluation
evaluation system         published annually beginning   Reports                   Restructured   and  results
established and          in 2001 based on pre-                                     oriented  organizations and
implemented in pilot      established performance                                  rector agencies maintained
agencies                  indicators                                               despite  resistance   from
special interests and changes
in senior officials
Acceptance by key non-
governmental stakeholders of
institutional reforms (civil
service, integrity, results
orientation)
*  Mechanisms for         *  Regulatory framework on     *  Publication of the Civil
preventing and            government ethics (including   Servant Statute and Code
combating corruption      regulations for Civil          of Ethics
implemented               Servant's Statute and Ethics   *  Reports of the Comptroller
Code) issued by 2001           General's office
*  At least 25 qualified forensic   *  Reports of the Public
auditors working in CGR by     Ministry
2001, and 50 such auditors    *  Domestic and external
by 2003                        corruption surveys
*  Three major bureaucratic    *  Publication of the
procedures revised to reduce   regulations governing
service delivery time by 50%   administration of goods
by 2003                        and services
* New transparent procurement
system established by 2001.
* Assets declared by 20% of
pilot agencies' staff by 2001
and 80% by 2003
*  New human resources   *  All pilot agencies have      *  Reports of Civil Service
management scheme         established human resources    entity, agencies, and
in force in pilot         regulatory framework           quarterly audits
agencies                  acceptable to the rector
institution by ARI year 2
* Establishment register
covering all pilot agencies
created by 2002
*  Results oriented       *  5 pilot agencies have effected  *  Project reports
operating systems         at least 50% of changes    *  Reports on recruitment and
installed in pilot        identified in their ARIs by    rehabilitation of staff in 6
agencies                  2002, and 80% in all pilot     agencies
agencies by 2004           *  Annual staff payrolls
*  Medium term budget          *  Evaluation of the ILACO
framework and budgeting by     project
results operating in 5 pilot  *  Tax agency reports
ministries
* Performance improved in 5
pilot agencies 20% in at least
three critical performance
indicators (identified during
preparation of ARIs)
measuring service delivery
*  35% of pilot agencies'



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 24
Country: Bolivia                                                       Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
professional staff
incorporated into the Civil
Service by ARI year 2, and
80% by year 3, and all
overall staff ceilings met
*   100% of the current wages of
the Civil Service financed by
the TGN by the end of phase
1
*  Two pilot agencies applying
integrated financial
management systems by end
of 2001, 3 agencies by end of
2002
Project components /Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each        Project Reports:              (from Components to
components:               component):                                                   Outputs)
Performnance evaluation    $1.2 million                   *  Semi-annual project        Adequate availability of
reports                   counterpart funds
*  Design of performance                                  *  Supervision mission        Sufficient implementation
evaluation system                                         reports                   capacity to coordinate
*  Adjusting the                                          *  Initial and annual polls on   interrelated tasks and
regulatory framework                                      satisfaction with public  supervise project
*  Establishing results                                      services in pilot agencies    components, including low
dissemination system                                                                turnover of key staff.
*  Strengthening the                                                                    Sustained commitment and
performance                                                                         vision for reform, and ability
evaluation unit                                                                     to
*  create and sustain merit
based civil service
*  overcome resistance to
anti-corruption measures
*  adhere to results of
performance evaluations
*  implement restructurings
of pilot agencies
*  prosecute successfully
corruption and tax
evasion
*  implement integrated
financial management
reforms in pilot agencies
in timely manner
National Integrity        $4.0 million
*  Establishment of the
regulatory framework
*  System for Income and
Assets Statements
*  Strengthening of the
Office of the
Ombudsperson and
Public Ministry
*  Modernization and
simplification of
procedures and public
registries



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 25
Country: Bolivia                                                      Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation        Critical Assumptions
* Procurement system
reform
* Citizen education
campaign
Civil Service             $1.7 miilion
* Adaptation of the
regulatory framework
* Establishing civil
service rector
institutions
* Creation of a human
resources registration
system
* Reform of training
system
Organizational Reform     $23.2 million
* Setting up change
management units
* Organizational
diagnoses
* Implementation of
SAFCO systems
* Implementation of
medium term budget
framework and
budgeting by results
* Financing of Civil
Service positions
* Evaluation of
institutional
performance
* Within revenue
agencies increased
assistance to taxpayers,
modification of the tax
code, improved audit
and information
systems
Reform Management         $1.9 million
* Project Coordinating
Unit
*  Evaluation of results



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 26
Country: Bolivia                                                       Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 1 (a)
Development Credit Agreement
Schedule 4
Performance Indicators                    Performance Benchmarks (Per Fiscal Year)
Baseline     2000       2001      2002      2003     2004
(FY 1998)
1. Number of ARIs entered into     0          3          5         7         7         7
and operational
2. Customs Revenues  (as a       5.65%       5.8%       6.0%      6.2%      6.4%     6.6%
percentage of GDP)            _
3. Internal Revenues (as a       7.48%       7.8%       8.1%      8.4%      8.7%     9.0%
percentage of GDP)            _
4. Total number of Central       13,000     13,000-    13,000-   13,000-   13,000-   13,000-
Government Employees ***                     216        410        691      704       866
5. Total number of Central        150        736        1,332     2,116    2,323     2,531
Government Employees
incorporated into the civil
service under Part D (c) of the
Project
6. Number of Pilot Agencies        0          2          4          5        6         6
evaluated as satisfactory under
the provisions of the ARIs
Definitions
I. "Central Government Employees" means the employees of the Borrower's ministries, national services,
departmental prefectures, departmental services and autonomous agencies (other than education and health
personnel, and Security Staff [as hereinafter defined]), in a given Fiscal Year, as established by INE (as
hereinafter defined);
2. "Customs Revenues" means the Borrower's total receipts for GAC, ICE-Imports, IEHD-Imports and IVA-
Imports (all as hereinafter defined), in a given Fiscal Year, as established by UDAPE (as hereinafter defined);
3. "GAC" means the Borrower's consolidated customs tariff (Gravamen Arancelario Consolidado);
4. "GDP" meains the Borrower's gross domestic product in a given Fiscal Year as established by UDAPE (as
hereinafter defined);
5. "ICE" means the Borrower's specific consumption tax (Impuesto a los Consumos Especificos);
6. "ICE-Imports" means the ICE applicable to import transactions;
-Figures subject to revision, as requested by the Association, whenever: (i) there is a change in the rates of GAC, ICE-
Imports, IEHD-Imports and IVA-Imports; and (ii) Imports as a share of GDP deviate in a given Fiscal Year by more than 2%
from projections satisfactory to the Association.
Figures subject to revision, as requested by the Association, whenever there is a change in the rates of ICE-Internal, IT
and IVA-Internal.
*** Figures subject to revision, as requested by the Association, as per the final results of the Borrower's Central
Government Employees inventory.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 27
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
7. "ICE-Internal" means the ICE applicable to domestic transactions;
8. "IEHD" means the Borrower's special tax on hydrocarbons and hydrocarbon derivatives (Impuesto Especial
de Hidrocarburos y Derivados);
9. "IEHD-Imports" means the IEHD applicable to import transactions;
10. "Imports" means the Borrower's total imports of goods, in Dollars, in a given Fiscal Year as established by
BCB;
11. "INE" means the Borrower's national institute of statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica);
12. "Internal Revenues" means the Borrower's total receipts for ICE-Internal, IT (as hereinafter defined), and
IVA-Internal (as hereinafter defined), in a given Fiscal Year as established by UDAPE (as hereinafter
defined);
13. "IT" means the Borrower's transactions tax (Impuesto a las Transacciones), other than the one collected by
YPFB (as hereinafter defined);
14. "IVA" means the Borrower's value added tax (Impuesto al Valor Agregado);
15. "IVA-Imports" means the IVA applicable to import transactions;
16. "IVA-Internal" means the IVA applicable to domestic transactions, other than the one collected by YPFB (as
hereinafter defined);;
17. "Security Staff' means the Borrower's staff of the police and the armed forces;
18. "UDAPE" means the Borrower's social and economic policy analysis unit (Unidad de Andlisis de Politicas
Sociales y Econ6micas) within the Ministry of Finance; and
19. "YPFB" means the Borrower's oil company (Yacimientos Petrol(feros Fiscales Bolivianos).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 28
Csountry: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 2
Institutional Reform Project
Project Description
.Bolivia's public sector modernization effort seeks to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency of
the Bolivian public administration in order to strengthen the country's ability to implement its econornic and
social development programs and thus combat poverty. The purpose of the program over ten years is to improve
the quality of service delivery and client orientation of government operations by creating more honest, cost-
effective, results-oriented organizations. It would establish in fact the institutional framework anticipated by
Bolivia's comprehensive and visionary Financial Administration and Control System (SAFCO) law approved in
1990. This first operation would reform the basic institutional framework for the public sector and pilot
organizational strengthening and those institutional reforms in several key agencies. It has four substantive
components: (i) horizontal reforms including a national system of performance evaluation; (ii) national integrity
program to address corruption; and (iii) the creation of a new human resources system; plus (iv) vertical reforms
aimed at strengthening several rector and pilot agencies.
Project Component 1 - $1.8 million (total component cost including contingencies)
Performance-oriented Management and Evaluation
This component will establish and launch a performance-oriented management and evaluation system in the
Bolivian government. It is being initiated because the administrative systems now in place focus more on
accounting and budget controls while the cornerstone of the National Integrity Plan (the overarching framework for
state reform and increased institutional strengthening) is an emphasis on results and performance.
Performance-oriented management and evaluation aims to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of resource
allocation and raise the sense of public service through ongoing assessments of pubic administration. It seeks to
promote: greater use of careful goal setting; analytical techniques in budget and administrative decision-making;
increasing autonomy for administrators (accompanied by incentives and increased accountability); improved
statistical and accounting information systems; and broadened public awareness of citizens' rights and enhanced
societal control. The national evaluation system will require public institutions to set targets, expressed in terms of
monitorable indicators conducive to the measurement of costs and practical results. In mid-year and at the end of the
management period the level of efficiency and the degree to which goals have been met will be evaluated on the
basis of the previously established target indicators. Low performance would trigger corrective measures. The
analysis of results will be based on existing statistical and accounting information systems, supplemented by
evaluation techniques such as systems analysis, cost-effectiveness appraisal, and cost-benefit analysis.
The Directorate of Government Coordination, located within the Ministry of the Presidency, will serve as the rector
unit for the National Evaluation system. It will need to coordinate closely with several agencies including the
Ministry of Finance and National Statistics Institute. The unit will need to be technically sound and enjoy high level
political support. The development of the evaluation system and efficiency and effectiveness standards will be a
gradual and selective process, given the need to acquire experience in applying evaluation techniques, determining
the appropriate standards, as well as promoting a positive attitude by public officials to the use of such a tool as a
feedback mechanism. Overall, the evaluation system should be seen by the pilot agencies adopting it as a
management tool that will help them fulfill their mission: as a self-evaluation instrument. The IRP will fund
technical assistance, equipment, and training needed to create the system in the following areas:
Designing of performance evaluation system: This includes developing evaluation indicators, instruments for
monitoring results, as well as the data-processing and follow-up system.
Adjusting the regulatory framework: Technical assistance services required to adapt the regulatory framework as
needed to establish and run the system.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 29
Country: Bolivia                                                  Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Establishing results dissemination system: Promoting the public dissemination of the results of the evaluation
carried out by the Performance Evaluation Unit, in order to provide feedback to individual agencies, relevant data
for the Government's internal oversight agencies, and to facilitate supervision by public opinion.
Strengthening of the performnance evaluation unit: The project will provide funds to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the unit responsible, within the Ministry of the Presidency, for evaluation of the targets agreed upon with
public sector institutions.
Project Component 2 - $5.7 million (total component cost including contingencies)
National Integrity/Combating Corruption
The component will support a comprehensive effort to develop effective prevention, education, and enforcement
mechanisms with which to combat corrupt practices in public administration, as well as to instill ethical values and a
spirit of public service in government employees. Corruption is widely perceived to be one of the gravest threats to
Bolivia's future. It undermines macroeconomic stability and investor confidence, damages the country's incipient
industries, and adds to the cost of doing business. Corruption also undermines democratic institutions and social
stability by damaging the credibility of the political system. A National Integrity Commission, composed of the
Vice President of the Republic (chairman), the Minister of the Presidency, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of
Justice, a representative of the Senate, a representative of the Chamber of Deputies, a representative of the Supreme
Court, the Comptroller General of the Republic, the Attorney General, and a representative of the Judiciary has been
established to help design the anti-corruption effort. A National Integrity Plan is being developed with the support
of civil society which envisages the following activities in the fight against corruption:
a)    Complying with the Inter-American Convention Against Corruption.
b)    Enforcing the new Civil Servant's Statute, which is based on the constitutional principle that government
officials and employees are dedicated exclusively to serving collective interests, and not vested interests or
those of any political party.
c)    Establishing rules with which to implement a system of statements of assets and income for government
employees, with a view to promoting greater transparency in public service.
d)    Strengthening the offices of the Ombudsperson, Comptroller General, and Attorney General.
e)    Reforming the government's system of procurement, in order to promote cost efficiency, transparency,
credibility and protection of the public interest.
f)    Modernizing and cleaning up internal revenue and customs services.
g)    Streamlining and simplifying red tape and registration procedures in public institutions, and ensuring that
they serve the needs of citizens.
h)    Conducting a massive and sustained educational and public awareness campaign highlighting respect for
public property and citizens' rights.
The IRP will fund technical assistance, equipment, and training needed to promote national integrity in the following
areas:
Mechanisms to prevent corruption:
Regulatory framework. The project financed (through the PPF) the drafting of a comprehensive Civil Servant's
Statute establishing the incentives, rights, and obligations of government employees of every rank and level. The
incentives envisaged include: increased job stability, clear regulations governing wages, improved working
conditions, and the creation of a formal civil service career. Obligations are defined in terms of the integrity,



Project Appraisal Documient                                                                       Page 30
C on ^y: Bolivia                                                      Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
hcnes.sZ  anod dedication expected of ci-il servants serving the general public. The law sets standards for recruitment,
re iYo'Val. nd apromotion. It includes an Ethics Code for civil servants.
'i,f Aatemeints of assets and income for government officials. The IRP will promote efforts by the Office
of the Co-.nnptroller General to develop specific rules regarding a system of sworn statements of assets and income
piesenied by go ernminent officials, to make them obligatory at every level, and to establish an information system
.fcr muu ierification. Citizens with a legitimate interest shall be able to access the system, thereby making it
possible for society to monitor possible cases of illicit enrichment. The project will finance the consulting services,
eiou-s-1ient, and! traiing needed to carry this out.
,.ki.;riei,cn$ g  f institu 'otis to facilitate denunciation and prosecution of corruption. Strengthening of the
Office of the Oinobdsperson through creation of a complaints counter where citizens can report cases of corruption
in oublic administration. This involves building a specific institutional capacity to receive such complaints, to
undertaike a preliminary inquiry in order to deterrine their validity, and to further process rapidly those with merit.
SCrCgme-51ni  Of the Office of the Comptroller Genieral's ability through a forensic audit unit to prepare and
document lawsuits against persons implicated in cases of corruption.
Strengtiheing of the Attorney General's Office [Ministerio PPblico] through the creation and strengthening of a
national Pt!iblic Affairs Prosecution Unit to endow, that Office with sufficient technical and operational capacity to
handle court cases. Specifically, the project will provide funding for the specialists and equipment needed to
consohlate the Unit, Bilateral resources are financing complementary efforts in other operations of the Attorney
-eneral's Office.
Sireai^mfining of procedures (cuttirng red tape). The aim is to simplify public sector procedures to reduce
discretion (and the opportunities for corruption), speed processes, and improve services to citizens.
Design of a new regulatory framework encouraging application of the "good faith" principle and the "administrative
silence means appr-oval" approach to processes and public registries. This new framework will also oblige entities to
provide the general public with reliable informriation or. steps to take, time limits, and the responsible officials, as
well as on th,e mechanisms at the public's disposal to denounce cases of non-observance of the rules or abuse.
Procedural reengineering through a pilot scheme to sirnplify and deregulate certain key procedures with visible
impacts on citizens and which have been identified as sources of corruption. This will require reengineering studies,
equpmnent, training, and dissemination of new procedures, and will be supported by a temporary office within the
Ministry of the Presidency, devoted to simplifying procedures and promoting complementary efforts in line
a-encies.
Procureuinent system reform. The National Integrity Plan aims to make public sector procurement procedures
Mnore tiansparent. The IRP, building on efforts financed by WBI and others, will finance:
Reiiew of the basic rules and procedures govemiing the purchase and administration by the public sector of goods
and services. A new system including legal framework, procedures, and rector institution will be established, to be
linked to the gove-rnment's integrated financial management system. Among other innovations, the new framework
edil establish Arbitration and Appeals Tribunals, ensure adequate dissermination of the rules to both suppliers and
governmient officials and pmake the publishing of bid results obligatory. A database registering bidding processes
and contracts awarded will be open to the public.
Citizen Education Campaign.  The NIP considers that instilling certain values and ethical principles in the
population is a key factor in the st-ruggle against corruption. To that end, the project will finance a public education
campaign in the mass and specialized media. The campaign will be geared toward developing respect for public
property, condenmation of illicit enrichment by persons in authority, and respect for the rights of citizens by the
state.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 31
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Project Component 3 - $2.4 million (total component cost including contingencies)
Civil Service Reform
This component would support the creation of a new merit based and professional civil service for the central
government. Numerous studies have confirmed that the quality of human resources within the central
administration is weak. Pay is insufficient to attract or retain quality staff, career development and training is
almost non-existent, institutional memory and esprit de corps are lacking, and there is no focus on performance
evaluation. There is excessive rotation of employees and good staff within the government are frequently
financed by donors, leading to large discrepancies in pay, potential conflicts of interest, and lower morale for non-
donor financed staff. The new system for human resource management would be operationally decentralized,
giving line managers greater autonomy in hiring, firing, and performance incentives, but within guidelines and
structures promoting merit and transparency. The IRP will fund technical assistance, equipment, and training
needed to create the new system in the following areas:
Adaptation of the regulatory framework. Preparing and implementing the regulatory framework and procedures
conforming to the proposed Civil Service legislation. This will include basic processes relating to job evaluation,
hiring, promotion, remuneration, and training.
Establishing civil service rector institutions. Technical assistance and information technology for the design and
establishment of the independent civil service commission (currently found in the Finance Ministry) and appeals
tribunal to serve as rector institutions for the new human resource system. This includes support for institutional
capacity building and basic business processes of the agencies.
Creation of a human resources registration system. Comprehensive diagnostic assessment of the government's
human resources including up-to-date position descriptions, creation of a personnel database, and establishment
registers.
Reform of training system. Support from bilateral donors for a reformed training system for the public sector with
a focus on public sector management, management of institutional changes, and ethics. This includes the design of
training courses for the pilot agencies as well as broader public sector, with an emphasis placed on the outsourcing
of training wherever possible.
Project Component 4 - $59.3 million (total component cost including contingencies)
Organizational Reform
This component will finance the restructuring and capacity building with the aim of creating results oriented
agencies. It will finance technical assistance, training, information technology, and support for salaries in seven
pilot agencies.
Organizational reform would be at the heart of the state modernization program, grounding the institutional
reforms in human resources and financial management, integrity, and performance evaluation within specific
agencies. The reforms are aimed at three key elements: (i) organizational restructuring and strengthening
including structural reform, completing job descriptions of all positions, changed management layering and
reporting responsibilities, management information systems, business process reengineering, and limited physical
improvements; (ii) legal framework reform relating to the mission and functioning of the organization including
the elaboration and implementation of the regulatory structure envisioned under the 1990 SAFCO law; and (iii)
human resources renewal. The goal, under the philosophy of the SAFCO law of normative centralization and
operational decentralization, is to increase the functional discretion of line ministries to meet their mission goals
subject to improved accountability systems and oversight by the rector organizations.
Organizational Reform Agreements (ARIs) would be the key instrument for guiding the process. Following
intensive diagnostic assessments, each pilot agency would agree to a specific change program specified in an
ARI. The ARIs would be reviewed and approved by the policy level National Integrity Commission, and the
Bank, and used as operational documents whose design and negotiation as well as implementation over an



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 32
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
anticipated three year period would require the commitment and ownership of the pilot ministry. The ARIs would
aim at more than changes in structure or staff rotation, but will try to get to the heart of organizational functioning
including corporate planning, streamlining processes, human resource development, strengthening of key
managerial functions, stakeholder development, and a focus on results. The restructuring process would put
particular emphasis on change management in order to promote the culture change permitted by new management
systems, staff, and compensation levels (and needed to achieve the desired results). Service evaluations (both
client surveys and desk assessments) in conjunction with the National Evaluation system would track the process
of reform, provide feedback, and help implant a focus on service delivery. Advisory groups representing clients
of pilot agencies (for example the Customs Council with respect to the Customs Service) would also provide
feedback into project implementation in each agency. As a quid pro quo to the pilot agencies, the project would
provide explicit incentives to entities meeting ARI targets by providing them greater scope for budgetary
formulation and execution, increased responsibility for human resource management, improved pay, and
increased training. Specifically, the project would fund technical assistance, training, and information technology
within the ARI process. The Bank and bilateral donors would also finance the incremental recurrent costs of
professional and managerial positions.
The Government has indicated that the Ministry of Finance (including Internal Revenue and Customs Services)
would initiate the restructuring process. Other potential agencies include the ministries of Agriculture, Housing,
Sustainable Development, and Education, as well as one prefecture. The Bank would finance technical
assistance, information technology, training, and incremental salary payments on a declining basis.
Organizational restructuring. Following structure and function reviews, the restructuring process will include
organizational adjustments, implementation of new human resources and financial management systems, training,
and business process reengineering. The process will be supported by technical assistance provided by international
consultant firms. The focus will be on management and administration of organizations, with reforms in key
operations to the extent possible left to separate sectoral reform projects and programs. Only in the case of the
Customs pilot agency will the IRP explicitly be expected to finance substantive investments in an agency's
operation.
Adaptation of regulatory frameworks. The project will facilitate reform of the legal framework related to the
mission and operations of each organization including the preparation and implementation of the regulations
envisaged under the SAFCO law.
Remuneration. Funding on a declining basis with bilateral donors the incremental recurrent costs of increased
salaries for technical and managerial staff hired competitively (see Annex 4 for a more detailed explanation). The
project will finance the renewal of the human resources in the institutions in the pilot scheme and establish
mechanisms for transparent recruitment, promotion, and removal processes based on merit, competition, and
performance.
Project Component 5 - $2.8 million (total component cost including contingencies
Reform Management
This component will finance the costs of the Secretariat to the National Integrity Commission which also serves
as the project coordinating unit (PCU). It will finance international and local staff, support personnel, operating
costs, and equipment for the unit. The PCU would be responsible for the supervision of the project, contracting of
and monitoring of consultants, oversight of project finances, preparation of reports, and auditing of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 33
Country: Bolivia                                                    Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 3
Institutional Reform Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                             Local            Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Performance Evaluation                                             1.7             0.1            1.8
National Integrity                                                 5.5             0.2            5.7
Civil Service                                                      1.5             0.9            2.4
Organizational Restructuring                                     54.5              4.8           59.3
Reform Management                                                 2.7              0.1            2.8
Total Proiect Cost                                               65.9              6.1           72.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 34
Country: Bolivia                                                Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 4
Institutional Reform Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Project Costs              NA            NA       Minimum increase in the
tax ratio from tax
adnministration measures
alone --internal revenue
from 7.5% of GDP in
1999 to 9.0% in 2004,
and Customs receipts
from 5.6%of GDP in
1999 to 6.6%in 2004.
Summary of Benefits and Costs
The objective of the public sector modernization program supported by a 10 year APC is to improve the delivery
of public goods and services in terms of efficiency, effectiveness, quality and transparency. The proposed
Institutional Reform Project, the first phase of the APC, aims to create the institutional framework for a modem
public sector as well as to build several model agencies. Horizontal reforms in the areas of human resource
management, national integrity, budgeting by results, and performance evaluation will be consolidated vertically
through organizational reforms in pilot agencies.
The main benefits expected include the following:
* Improved public sector efficiency (speed and cost reductions) and effectiveness (impact) in reformed pilot
agencies
* Improved accountability through the development of a management by results systems and culture
* Greater transparency in management and visible reduction of corruption
* Increase in tax collections through improvement in tax administration
The main costs of the project are:
* Technical assistance
* Selected goods (including information technology)
* Training
* Information and dissemination campaigns
* Incremental increases in civil service salaries
While real, many of the benefits expected from the program are of an intangible nature and therefore difficult to
quantify for a cost-benefit assessment. Only the increase in tax efficiency is quantifiable. The government
estimates that the increase in tax collections in the medium and long term will exceed the cost of the program.
Collections from internal revenue are expected to increase from 7.5 percent of GDP in 1999 to 9.0 percent in
2004. Similarly, Customs collections are expected to increase from 5.6 percent of GDP to 6.6 percent over the
same period.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 35
Country: Bolivia                                                Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Strengthening Tax Administration
Based on a recent IMF evaluation of the tax system, the Public Expenditure Review (PER) reports that "Bolivia
has made notable progress in increasing its non-oil tax revenue base since the mid 1980s (when revenues were
well below 5 percent) to the point where tax revenues as a share of GDP compare favorably with the LAC average
and are high for its income group. Nevertheless, there are a number of suggestions to improve the buoyancy,
equity, and efficiency of the tax system, and to widen the base." The growth rate of tax collections in the last few
years has declined as a direct consequence of evasion and persistent legal and organizational problems. As a
consequence the IMF and Ministry of Finance estimate that evasion of the IVA tax alone reduced collection by
approximately US$295 million in 1996. This is equivalent to 4 percent of GDP and represents about 39 percent
of potential collection and 65 percent of effective collection.
To address this problem the Government is undertaking fundamental reforms in tax administration to improve the
effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency of the Customs and Internal Revenue Services.
Customs
In 1999 the Customs Service is projected to collect US$500 million representing 5.6 percent of GDP.' Total
imports are projected at US$3.1 billion, of which US$1.2 billion or 38 percent are estimated to be contraband.
Customs collections have been increasing by an average 14 percent since 1992, above the average 11 percent
estimated growth of imports (legal and illegal). Foreign trade is expected to continue growing (if not necessarily
at double digit rates) due to increasing integration with the Andean Community, Mercosur, and the completion of
a natural gas pipeline to Brazil.
The comprehensive program of reform in the Customs Service will include institutional strengthening, a
reengineering of processes, human resources renewal, reform of the legal and regulatory framework, and
investments in information technology. The Government is proposing important new legislation which will
increase the operational and financial autonomy of the Customs Service, permit the President to nomninate its
Director (selected from a list prepared by a joint public/private sector council) to be approved by the Congress and
serving for a five year term. Customs has been identified by the authorities as a first priority pilot agency for the
ARI process. Moreover, with IMF support, preliminary plans have been developed to execute significant
technical changes in Customs operations, including the following:
* Implementation during the first project year of an effective system of control over the transit of goods to
Customs posts the country. Currently the Customs Service estimates that up to 5000 vehicles crossing the
border do not arrive at Customs posts, resulting in annual losses of over US$28 million.
* Installation during the second project year of a modem software system to provide real time financial and
physical accounting from all Customs posts.
* Strengthening of ex-post auditing during the third project year in order to increase the risk of detection by tax
evaders.
Based on reasonable growth and trade projections (available on file) and no increases in tax rates:2 (i) Customs
receipts over the 1999-2008 period increase due to improved collection efficiency by US$209 million in net
present value (NPV) terms using a discount rate of 10 percent. Up to 2004, the NPV of increased revenues due to
reforms totals US$75 million. Without reform Customs collections are expected to rise from US$500 million in
1999 to $981 million in 2008 compared to US$1,082 million with the reforms. This assumes the same level of
total imports but a reduction of contraband from 66 percent of legal imports in 1998 to 41 and 55 percent in 2008
with and without the reforms.
IAll dollar figures are presented in constant 1998 dollars.
2Growth projections are consistent with the IMF ESAF program for the first three years. Long term projections are
consistent with Bank and authorities projections. The increase in import share in GDP was a moderate 5 percent during the
10 year period.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 36
Country: Bolivia                                                                Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
1%8E            8Ei57     2321/o   1983     655%/    517   62/i   1983        655%o    517  E6C%o 
1999     4,5    89E       21.5%/   I91      64P71/o    SOO   S/4   1g!       64.70/o    EG  O /56
23i0     52      9407     22!G%/   2[ff     6360%    E3B   5.70/    2090      Sl.6%/    545   58% 
201      54      9915     ?24'/o    24      64%       579   580/    2377      Mfe%      53   60/o      1
2uX      57    104K)      2 9%/o   2401     61.3%     625  6UP!   2486        58%       648   62/o     Z
2CC3     57    11078      234%/o    2)       WI%    675   610/    2712        53G%/o    707   64%      a
2X4      57    11709      2390/o   2793     E9.1%     7M    62/    2957      5[.3%/0    770 r 6/o     4
2X!      57    12376      243%    3011      5a1%      784  6E30      am       47.70/o    8    68%      EE
X6       5.7   132m       248%    s245      57.0%     845   680      3B       452/o    914   7.C%      65
2J7      57    13E8       253%    346      E6/O    911   680M       B18      428%/o    9     72o%     &
2mm      57    14616      258%/0   37M      550G0     9B1   67P      41E3     40.8/o   10!   7.4%/o   101
Tcts                               29EQ      59.5%    7B             31127     5121%   8109            4Z
PVA.rd r    1erw   M2gC
. mrscuAcnodiedwdsed2605pfft
Aai dsng adsmit raed 10pat
Internal Revenue
The Government is also undertaking a comprehensive program of reform in the Internal Revenue Service
including institutional strengthening, a reengineering of processes, human resources renewal, reform of the legal
and regulatory framework, and investments in information technology. The Government will propose as part of
the overhaul of the Tax Code to increase the operational and financial autonomy of the IRS (similar to the
Customs reforms), to permit the President to nominate its Director (selected from a list prepared by a joint
public/private sector council) to be approved by the Congress and to serve for a five year term. IRS has been
identified by the authorities as a first priority pilot agency for the organizational restructuring process.
Should the project reach its target, internal IVA tax evasion will drop 30 percent. With a discount rate of 10
percent, the NPV of the benefits of the reform until the year 2008 are US$380 million. NPV of increased
revenues only up to the year 2004 are US$145 million.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 37
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Internal Revenue: 1998-2008 With and Without
Witut Measures             With       es
GDP        GDP            a                 Tax          Tax             AdT-ax
Growth     DOlars       Revenue      Reveues.- Revenues-   Revenues    Revenues
%/,GDP      Dollar       %GDP         Dollars      Dollar
1998                      8557          7.73        661.5        7.73        661.5          0.0
1999          4.5         8942          7.48        668.9        7.48        668.9          0.0
2000           5.2        9407          7.66        720.2        7.76        730.2         10.0
2001           5.4        9915          7.84        776.9        8.05        798.6         21.7
2002           5.7       10480          8.02        840.5        8.36        875.9         35.4
2003           5.7       11078          8.21        909.3        8.67        960.8         51.4
2004           5.7       11709          8.40        983.8        9.00       1053.8         70.0
2005           5.7       12376          8.60       1064.3        9.28       1148.4         84.2
2006           5.7       13082          8.80       1151.4        9.57       1251.6        100.2
2007           5.7       13828          9.01       1245.6        9.86       1363.9        118.3
2008           5.7       14616          9.22       1347.6        10.17      1486.4        138.8
Totals                                           10369.98                   11000.0        630.0
NPV Additional Revenue (Dollars)                      380
Dollars are in constant 1998 terms.
Fiscal Impact of Funding of Incremental Recurrent Costs
An important component of the IRP includes the financing, on a declining basis (80, 80, 60, 60, 30 percent), of
the incremental recurrent costs of increased wage bill in the pilot agencies. This funding is considered critical to
the achievement of the project's aims. While the pilot agencies will be able to fund the additional costs of
information technology maintenance, the sustainability of the new civil service positions requires a supplementary
contribution from the government. Given the importance of the financial feasibility of this component for the
project's sustainability, the following is an analysis of the fiscal impact of this component.
Background
Implementation of the civil service reform takes into account the re-dimensioning of the government and the
application of a new public administration salary scale that is more competitive with the national labor market.
The government will implement the new human resources system in a progressive manner in those agencies
undergoing an integral process of restructuring and strengthening. Implementation of the civil service throughout
the central and prefecture governments will be completed in ten years, carried out in three phases. Seven pilot
agencies are projected to be incorporated during the first phase; two ministries and all the regional governments
will be incorporated in the second phase, and in the final third phase the remaining central administration
institutions will be incorporated in the program.
At present the number of public officials in the central and regional governments amounts to nearly 13,000.
Personnel costs represent US$65.5 million per year. The government finances consultants and temporary staff in
line positions to the tune of US$13.8 million. Thus total personnel costs amount to US$79.3 million. Once
implementation of the civil service program is completed, personnel should have been reduced by just over 25
percent (an estimate which may vary within individual agencies as the institutional reform process develops). The
cost of the new personnel structure after the reform will reach 92.2 million per year. This amount represents an
increase of 40.8 percent over the amount of the 1998 payroll and 16.3 percent if the resources of allotment 252 are
included. The increase is due to the increase in salaries over the current low salary levels.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 38
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
The fiscal impact of the Civil Service component has been estimated by projecting the salary cost of public
officials to be contracted during the period 1999-2008.
Assumptions
The projection of the project's fiscal cost is based on the following assumptions:
* Same macroeconomic estimates as in the benefits section.
* The salary scale to be adopted is the one proposed by the Civil Service Directorate in the Finance Ministry.
* The highest level in the career Civil Service will be Director General.
* No public servant will be paid for non-worked days, or receive premiums or supplementary wages (except in
those cases established by the law).
Civil service salaries will only be increased to compensate for exchange rate devaluation (Bolivian pesos
versus US dollars).
* World Bank financing and bilateral assistance will decrease over time as a percentage of incremental costs of
new positions (although the funding will be lumpy in aggregate reflecting the pace of reform and number of
agencies).
* Government financing originates from increased tax collections; thus, it does not generate internal debt.
* The Government's contribution to civil service financing will increase annually based on the difference
between the inflation rate and annual devaluation.
* The Government will progressively transfer funds from budgetary line 252 (Studies, Research and Projects)
to line 100 (Personnel Services).3
The fiscal impact of the introduction of the Civil Service is largely dependent on two factors: i) the number of
employees incorporated over time into the new civil service; and ii) the salary scale adopted. With respect to the
first, the government projects a 27 percent cut in the number of staff in the central government from about 13,000
to 9,400 employees by the year 2008. This number should remain stable in the future. To attract the more
qualified employees necessary to improve effectiveness and efficiency of government operations, the salary scale
for professionals will be increased from a level of about 28 percent of wages in the private sector to 64 percent.
The Government believes that the non-monetary compensation of public service will reduce the remaining gap
somewhat, but within the constraints below will seek to adjust salaries further if possible.
Annually the incremental costs rise from 2,8 million in 2000 to US$26.7 million in 2008. The total incremental
cost of the civil service program is estimated at U$142.7 million over 10 years. The Government would
contribute up to US$71.8 million of total incremental costs through increases in line with the expected growth of
tax collections and the progressive reassignment of budget line 252 to line 100. To cover the remaining US$70.8
million, financing is projected from an increased effort of the government and from external sources including the
IDA credit and bilateral grants. From 2005 on the Government will be able to contribute the remaining resources
needed as it will have absorbed the one time costs of pension reform. External financing needs for salaries will
decline to zero as payroll costs decline in terms of GDP from 0.77 percent of GDP in 1998 to 0.62 percent of
GDP in 2008.
In sum, the civil service reform produces a permanent increase in nominal terms in the wage bill of the central
government as the savings generated by staff reductions do not fully compensate for the increase in costs resulting
from higher salary levels. External financing (World Bank and bilateral assistance) will fund a portion of the
additional civil service cost in the short term. Over time increases in tax collection, the progressive reduction in
pension reform costs, and reduced external debt payments from the HIPC program will permit the Government to
fully assume these incremental costs. The fact that civil service costs will decrease with respect to GDP provides
further assurance that the reform will be financially sustainable over the long term.
3Allotment 100 is the item in the Nation's General Budget that accounts for State officials' wages and salaries. Allotment
252 accounts for consultant compensation (both permanent and temporary).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 39
Country: Bolivia                                                     Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Costs of Implanting the New Civil Service Over Ten Years
Constant 1998 US$ million
Year  Costs of   Costs of  Towa Costs ARequlir Pu -  :--:  Eenl.              Id   ToWa Cost
Curren                                                               ruiidin
System  New System           Treasuy   Fl g   Suppet  Fundiag    % OL$   % of GDP
- -- -- -: :: --Resourc- - 
1998      65.5        0.0      65.5      65.5        0.0      0.0      0.0   0.00%      0.77%
1999      57.8       10.5      68.3      67.9        0.3      0.0      0.3   0.00%      0.76%
2000      49.9       20.4      70.3      68.4        1.9      0.0      1.9   0.02%      0.76%
2001      42.9       30.0      72.8      69.5        3.3      0.0      3.3   0.03%      0.75%
2002      36.1       39.3      75.3      70.6        4.7      0.0      4.7   0.05%      0.74%
2003      29.8       48.6      78.4      72.4        6.0      0.0      6.0   0.05%      0.72%
2004      23.4       57.3      80.7      73.6        7.1      0.0      7.1   0.06%      0.70%
2005      17.4       66.3      83.7      75.4        8.3      1.2      7.0   0.06%      0.68%
2006      11.5       75.1      86.6      75.9       10.7      3.9      6.8   0.05%      0.66%
2007       5.7       83.7      89.4      76.3       13.1      7.0      6.1   0.04%      0.64%
2008       0.0       92.2      92.2      76.8       15.4     14.9      0.6   0.00%      0.62%
To Finance                          70.8              43.8
Fiscal Impact of Incremental Recurrent Costs of Phase 1
A more in-depth assessment of the fiscal impact for Phase 1 looked at the current structure of personnel and salary
scale of potential pilot agencies. Seven pilot agencies were selected for the analysis: Internal Revenue and
Customs Services, the ministries of Finance, Housing, Agriculture, Sustainable Development, Education and the
regional government of Oruro prefecture (this list is only for indicative purposes). The total number of public
officials in the seven pilot entities currently amounts to 3,477. Once the implementation of the civil service
program is completed, personnel will have been be reduced by 26.7 percent (to 2,550 public servants). The
assumptions are the same as in the previous section; in addition: (i) salaries of the support staff are not financed
by external resources; (ii) those salaries whose levels are currently above civil service levels are not reduced; (iii)
during the first year, 100 percent of the professional staff of the following pilot agencies: Ministries of Finance
(Internal Revenue and Customs Services), Housing, and Agriculture, will join the new regime, followed, in the
second year, by 100 percent of the professional staff of the remaining pilot entities (Sustainable Development,
Education, and the regional government of Oruro prefecture); (iv) in four years the Government will progressively
transfer funds from budgetary line 252 to line 100 (20, 40, 60, 80 percent); (v) World Bank and bilateral financing
will decrease over time as a percentage of incremental costs of new positions (80, 80, 60, 60, 30 percent) and
finalize in the seventh year of the reform; from then onwards the Government will finance entirely the cost of the
civil service program.
Without the project the wage bill of seven pilot entities during the 10 years of the reform program would reach
US$ 196 million4. With the project, this figure will be of US$ 275 million. Hence the incremental cost, i.e. the
difference in the wage cost with or without the project, reaches US$ 79 million.
The Government will finance Civil Service Reform with resources from budgetary lines 100 and 252 and
additional domestic resources, (see table below). World Bank and bilateral donors support decreases over time.
4Total current salaries expenditures of seven pilot agencies multiplied by 10.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 40
Country: Bolivia                                                            Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
The external financing of Civil Service in the pilot entities will conclude by the seventh year of the reform
program. From that point onwards, the Government will fully assume the cost of the reform program. For the
first phase the World Bank and bilateral cooperation contribute US$ 25 million and the Government of Bolivia
will add the remaining US$ 54 million.
The Civil Service Program, as defined by the government, is viable and sustainable. The fact that the wage bill of
the pilot agencies, by the end of the 10 year, will decrease with respect to GDP provides assurance of the
sustainability of the reform. In fact, the wage bili as a percentage of GDP reaches its initial level by the seventh
year. In the short run, external financing (World Bank and bilateral cooperation), the transfer of allotment 252
and the additional contributions of the Treasury will finance the Civil Service Reform. In the medium term, the
decline in the number of public officials, and the increase in fiscal revenues will enable the State to cover the
additional costs. Indeed, the abatement of the costs of structural reforms, especially of the pension reform
expenditures, will provide the Treasury some fiscal room to maneuver and absorb the Civil Service reform costs.
Costs of Implanting the New Civil Service in the First Phase
Constant 1998 US$ thousands
0     19,586       0   19,586   19,586        0        0   19,586   0.23%     3477        0
1      5,353  20.592   25,946   20,038    1,182    4,726   21,220   0.29%     1134    1758
2          0  29,346   29,346   20,659    1,737    6,949   22,396   0.31%        0    2550
3          0  28,728   28,728   21,062    2,365    5,301   23,426   0.29%        0    2550
4          0  28,144   28,144   20,976    2,867    4,301   23,844   0.27%        0    2550
5          0  27,858   27,858   21,100    3,824    2,934   24,924   0.25%        0    2550
6          0  27,575   27,575   21,112    5,590      874   26.701   0.24%        0    2550
7          0  27,295   27,295   21,124    6,171        0   27,295   0.22%        0    2550
8          0  27,018   27,018  21,138    5,880         0   27,018   0.21%        0    2550
9          0  26,744   26,744   21,152    5,591        0   26,744   0.19%        0    2550
10         0  26,422   26,422   21,128    5,294        0   26,422   0.18%         0    2550
TOTAL   24,939 269,722  294,662  229,427   40,501   25,085  269,576



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 41
Country: Bolivia                                                       Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 5
Institutional Reform Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period                       Operational Period
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Project Costs
Investment Costs              4.0       7.5    10.9      1.6      0.9     0.
Recurrent Costs               3.6       6.0     8.7      8.9      9.3    10.6
Total                      7.6      13.5    19.6    10.5    10.2    10.6
Financing Sources (% of total   Total
project costs)               Project
IBRD/IDA                     44.4%
Co-financiers                26.4%
Government                   29.2%
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Total                    100%



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 42
Country: Bolivia                                                Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 6
Institutional Reform Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines, "Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (dated January 1995, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). Consultants will be hired
following the World Bank guidelines for the "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" (dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999).
Procurement methods (Table A):
Applicable project costs and procurement methods are summarized in Table A. Procurement of goods will
consist mostly of computer hardware and software, training materials and public awareness literature. The first
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be subject to the Association's prior review, irrespective of the
estimated amount of the contract. NCB will use documents acceptable to the Association. Table A.1 provides a
breakdown of selection procedures for consultant services and training.
Prior review thresholds (Table B):
The thresholds for the applicable procurement methods are identified in Table B. Approximately US$10.6
million of the procured goods and services will require the Bank's prior review.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The first phase of the project is estimated to be disbursed over a period of six years in accordance with the table
in Annex 5 laying out the disbursement schedule of IDA funds. The project will use a flexible disbursement
mechanism, consisting a simplified Special Account procedure, which will allow decentralized management of
funds by the agencies implementing various restructuring agreements. The overall oversight, monitoring and
final accountability for the funds will remain with the PCU, which will be responsible for preparing
disbursement applications for their submission to IDA. Replenishment applications for the Special Account(s)
will be submitted at monthly intervals, irrespective of the volume of transactions in any month, or more
frequently if needed for adequate cash flow.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
Disbursement applications will be submitted on the basis of Statements of Expenditures, while a full PMR
based disbursement system is being adopted, for
(a) contracts which value does not exceed the equivalent of:
US$ 200,000 for goods;
US$ 100,000 for consulting firms; and
US$ 35,000 for individual consultants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 43
Country: Bolivia                                              Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
(b) all local training programs and incremental operating costs.
All other expenditures in excess of these amounts or of any other type will be fully documented when submitted
to IDA. All consolidated documentation relevant to SOEs, will be available at the PCU for Bank missions and
audit purposes.
Special account
One or more special deposit account(s), as may be required under the co-financing arrangements -- will be
opened in a freely convertible currency under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized
allocation(s) to the Special Account(s) will be set at a level sufficient to cover about four months of estimated
expenditures eligible for financing by IDA and any other donor whose funds are managed in trust by IDA.
Replenishments of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous advance(s) as
evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement applications. Deposits into the Special
Accounts and their replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocation(s) will be made initially on the basis of
Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other documentation specified
in the Disbursement Handbook. Once the accounting and financial management systems of the PCU are
deemed compliant with LACI requirements, and are certified as such by IDA, a migration to a LACI type of
disbursements may be implemented as described hereafter.
Migration to LACI and Compliance with OP 10.02
A Bank Financial Specialist has assessed the financial execution capacity of the PCU. The Bank and the PCU
have agreed on an action plan to develop the PCU's capacity to prepare quarterly Performance Management
Reports within 12 months. The specialist certified the existence of reliable accounting systems that allow the
preparation of annual financial audits by an external auditing firm, in accordance with Bank requirements.
Following the Financial Specialist's recommendations, the PCU will have to modify its accounting system to be
able to generate financial reports that conform with the requirements of the LACI disbursement system.
The PCU will implement an Integrated Project Monitoring System, with accounting and financial information,
disbursements, purchasing, procurement, and control of contracts will have to be implemented, to allow the
generation of quarterly programmatic financial reports on the physical advance of each component, as well as
financial information by disbursement category. This system will also establish the procedures for its own
operation and maintenance throughout project implementation. The detail of these procedures are contained in
the Operational Manual.
The PCU will have in place accounting and internal control systems that accord with such accounting standards
or agreed format and that (a) reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial transactions of the
project and, as appropriate, the entity, including those transactions involving the use of Bank funds; and (b)
provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 44
Country: Bolivia                                                   Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements5
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        N CB        Other      N.B.F
1. Goods
1.3        0.8         0.2                        2.3
(0.76)      (0.5)       (0.04)                     (1.3)
2. Consultants & Training
22.7                      22.7
(15.9)                    (15.9)
3. Salaries/Recurrent Costs
47.0                      47.0
(14.8)                    (14.8)
Total
1.3        0.8        69.9                       72.0
(0.76)      (0.5)      (30.74)                    (32.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other"
and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or
in the text.
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
5 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where
applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 45
Country: Bolivia                                              Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                         Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                 (including
Expenditure Category                                                               contingencies)
______________ QCBS  |QBS  |SFB   |LCS  |   Q   |Other |N.B.F.
A. Firms               10.0                        0.2                                 10.2
(8.7)                      (0.2)                                (8.9)
B. Individuals                                                     5.9                 5.9
(2.1)               (2.1)
Total 10.0                         0.2            5.86                16.1
(8.7)                       (0.2)           (2.1)             (11.0)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 46
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure          Contract Value          Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ Thousands                               US $ Millions
1. Goods
2 $200                 ICB                        2.000
< $200 and > $50            NCB                         .100
> $50         Shopping (International
or National)
2. Services
Firms                         > $100                QCBS                        6.500
< $100         Least Cost Selection*
Individuals           > $35: Will require                                       2.000
prior review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 10.6
* This selection process will depend on the type of consulting service in accordance with paragraph 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines
6 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 47
Country: Bolivia                                             Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
(1) Goods                                     1,200,000      100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures.
(2) Consultants' services                    15,000,000              100%
And Training
(3) Salaries                                 12,700,000      Declining
(80,80,60,60,30)
percentage of
incremental costs.
(4) Incremental Recurrent Costs                300,000
(5) Refunding of Project                      1,500,000      Amounts due
Preparation Advance                                          pursuant to Section
2.02(b) of the Loan
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                               1,300,000
Total    32,000,000



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 48
Country: Bolivia                                               Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 7
Institutional Reform Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
290,000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         10                   13
First Bank mission (identification)             3/1/1999             3/1/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     1/11/1999            4/5/1999
Negotiations                                    1/26/1999           4/15/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  4/15/1999             7/1/1999
Prepared by: Secretariat to the Commission for National Integrity
Preparation assistance: PPF, PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Ronald Myers                             Task Manager
Jit Gill                         Tax Units/Anti-corruption
David Varela                            Country Lawyer
Roberto Panzardi                    Org. Restructuring/Legal Issues
Carmen Machicado                        Financial Management
Yasuhiko Matsuda                       Institutional Assessment
Norma Rodriguez                             Procurement
Enzo de Laurentiis                     Procurement Assessment
Gisela Durand                        Project Financial Analyst
Paul Sisk                        Project Financial Management
Paul Vandenheede                            Disbursement
Carlos Mollinedo                   Org. Restructuring/Fiscal Impact
Jose Antonio Gonzalez                         Fiscal Impact
Romulo Leon                          Information Technology
Gary Reid                               Civil Service
Rajesh Vidyasagar                          Peer Reviewer
Malcolm Holmes                             Peer Reviewer
Robert Crown                             Peer Reviewer
Barbara Nunberg                            Peer Reviewer



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 49
Country: Bolivia                                                 Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 8
Institutional Reform Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrowers Implementation Plan
Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Staff Appraisal Report and all related project documents - Civil Service and Administrative Reform
Project
National Institutional Review Concept Document
Public Expenditure Review
Procurement Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Draft National Integrity Plan
Organizational Diagnosis - Internal Revenue Service
Organizational Diagnosis - Customs Services
Organizational Restructuring Agreement - Pre-Agreement (Ministry of Housing)
Fiscal Impact Assessment - Customs Service
Fiscal Impact Assessment - Internal Revenue Service
Fiscal Impact Assessment - Civil Service Program
Action Plan for Integrated Financial Management Project
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                           Page 50
Country: Bolivia                                                                                                                              Project Title: Institutional Reform Project
Annex 9
Bolivia: Status of World Bank Group Operations in Bolivia
Operations Portfolio
Difference between
expected
original Amount in U.S.$ millions              and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                disbursements          Supervision Rating b/
Project ID      year             Borrower                        Purpose
IBRD      IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig    Frm Rev'd         Dev Obi      Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 55
Active Projects
BO-PE-6180         1992   Government of Bolivia        Road Maintenance                      0.00     80.00       0.00      19.15        16.92      8.07            S            S
BO-PE-6196         1993   Government of Bolivia        Integrated Child Development          0.00     50.70      20.25      18.32        30.82      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-6190         1994   Government of Bolivia        Municipal Development                 0.00     42.00       0.00       8.27         7.63      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-6205         1995   Government of Bolivia        Juudicial Reform                      0.00     11.00       0.00       4.55         3.65      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-6197         1995   Government of Bolivia        Land Administration                   0.00     20.40       0.00       6.41        -1.69      0.00            U            U
BO-PE-6181         1995   Government of Bolivia        Education Reform                      0.00     40.00       0.00      19.95         7.61      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-6206         1996   Government of Bolivia        Rural Water & Sanitation              0.00     20.00       0.00       9.74         8.93       .67            S            S
BO-PE-6191         1996   Government of Bolivia        Power Sector Reform Ta &              0.00      5.10       0.00       1.66         1.96      0.00           RS            S
BO-PE-6186         1996   Government of Bolivia        Env.Ind.& Mining                      0.00     11.00       0.00       8.89         3.60      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-6202         1996   Government of Bolivia        Rural Communities De                  0.00     15.00       0.00        .82         1.95      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-57396        1998   Government of Bolivia        Reg. Reform Tac                       0.00     20.00       0.00      20.22          .93      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-40110        1998   Ministry of Finance          Fin Decen. & Acct                     0.00     15.00       0.00      11.47         -.42      0.00            S            S
(MOF)
BO-PE-6204         1998   Government of Bolivia        Education Quality                     0.00     75.00       0.00      72.33        11.25      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-55974        1998   Government of Bolivia        BO El Nito Emergency                  0.00     25.00       0.00      16.06         2.54      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-40085        1998   Government of Bolivia        Participatory Rural Inv.              0.00     62.80       0.00      60.98         -.34      0.00            S            S
BO-PE-57030        1999   Government of Bolivia        Reg. Reform Adjustment Credit         0.00     41.78       0.00      19.81        -2.30      0.00            S            S
Total                                                                                        0.00    534.78      20.25    298.63         93.04      8.74
Active Projects       Closed Projects         Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 212.68            1,157.97            1,370.65
Of which has been repaid:                   0.00              294.96             294.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 514.53              841.00            1,355.53
Amount sold                      :0.00                                  .05                .05
Of which repaid               :                0.00                 .05                 .05
Total undisbursed                :              298.63                3.20              301.83
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter-based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Annex 10
Page I of 2
Bolivia at a glance                                                              1011/98
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Amerd"a   middle-
Bolivia   & Carlb.  Income     Development diamond
1997
Poputioon, mid-year (tnilions)                         7.8      494      228                   Ufe expectancy
GNP per capita fAtls rnefho& US$'                     950      3,880     t,230
GNP (Atlas nethod, US$ b/fbns,                         7.4     1,917     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991.97
Population f%)                                         2.4       1.7       1.2     G                                G
Labor force No)                                       2.6        2.3       13      GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recept estimabt (ltst year avIlable, 19917-    capita                                                      enrollment
Poveoy (% of population belownationra Povery lin,      67
Urban population (% of tota poputatlion)               59        74        42
Ufe. expectancyatitYeats)                              61        70        69
Infant mortait (pW  1,0W live bilihs;                  67        32        36
Chid malnutrition    Of cddrennd  51                    9          .. .-                     Access tb safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpoputation)                  80        73        84
liiteraCV f% of population age 15+)                    17        13        19
Gross primary enrollnwt (% ofshol-apopPuation)         91        111      1t 'E olivia
Male                                                 95         ..      116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               87          -      113
KEY ECONOMiC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     198$      1998      I997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           2.2       4.0       7.2       7.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..    13.6       16.6      19.8                     Trade
Exports ot goods and services/GDP              .      21.3      22.9      21.0
Gross domestic savngs/GDP                      ..       ..      11.2      123
Gross national savings/GDP                      .       ..      166       15.0                       T
Current account balance/GDP                  -2.8     *8.1      -5.3      -8.3     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         1.8      2.5       2.3       2.2     Savings                     Investment
Total debtGDP                               58.6    f40.8       72.1      67.8
Total debt service/exports                   21,5     35.0      29.S      30.5
Present value of debtGODP                     ..        ..      46.4
Present value of debtlexpors    ...                      -     241.4
Indebtedness
197-86 19$797       1996       1997    998-02
(avrage annualp rowtlv
GOP                                 -2.7     4.1       4A1       4.2       5.3             boivia
GNP per capita                       ..       1.9      2.8       1.4       2.8               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       -5.0     8.6       6.7      -0.5       8.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (Y)
(% of GDP)                                                                         45
Agriculture                                    ..    28.5       14.1      14.1
Industr                                        ..    51.9       29.2      27.9     30
Manufacturing                                ..       ..      17.0      15.7    15
Services                                      ..    19.6        56.7      58.0      o                         _
Private consumption                            ..    81.4       75.6      74.0    I15-    92   93          g95   96   97
General govemment consumption                  ..      9.4      13.1      13.7                   GDI            GDP
Imports of goods and services                  .      25.7      28.3      28.5                     D19
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (Y)
(average annual growth,
Agriculture                                    .       3.3       3.6       4.9   20
Industry                                             S4.5        3.4       3.5    i
Manufacturing                                ..      4.3       3.9       4.2    10
Services                                               3.9       4.4       4.5     5
Private consumption                          -0.5      3.0       2.4       3.9 o  0                    _           _
General govemment consumption               -4.4       2.9       1.0       3.8           92   93                 96   97
Gross domestic investment                   -4.1       7.8      20.9      23.8     s
Imports of goods and services                 1.6     6.0        9.7      10.3                  Exports     *Imports
Gross national product                         ..      4.4       5.1       3.8
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrV (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Bolivia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1988       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         20
Consumer prices                                ..       ..        7.9      6.7    15
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..   211.4         8.9      7.9    to
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants;                                                 o1-
Current revenue                                ..    18.7        26.3     24.1             92   93   94   95   96    97
Current budget balance                         ..      1.4        6.3      3.0              -    GDP deflator    e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -3.3        -2.0     -3.3
TRADE
1976     1988      1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                    588      1,132     1,167    2,000
Tin                                           ..    104          86       81
Fuel                                                 334        153      200      1,500 
Manufactures                                  ..       ..       144      183
Total imports (cifl                            ..    674        1,568    1,810     1,00 
Food                                          ..       ..       148      188       soo
Fuel and energy                                        ..        86      349
Capital goods                                                   586      734        o m
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Exportpriceindex(1995-t00J                      ..    156        104       106
Importpriceindex(1995=100J                      ..      50       109       110               *Exports       MImports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                      ..    310          95        96                       =
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976    1988       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (V.)
Exports of goods and services                 623      704      1,318    1,362      0
Imports of goods and services                 656      816      1,779    2,050
Resource balance                              -35    -112        -461     -688      -2
Net income                                    -36    -309        -168     -212      -4.
Net current transfers                          14   99   245   252  -o 111111
Current account balance                       -57    -321        -384     -648
Financing items (net)                         113      432       726       751
Changes in net reserves                       -56     -110       -342     -103    -10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..    505        1,125    1,192
Conversion rate (DEC, locatl/US$)         3.OOE-5      1.9        5.1      5.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,290    5,575      5,200    5,284
IBRD                                         31      235        61        37                  G: 425 A 37
IDA                                          53       97       843       930                  G4930
Total debt service                            137      251       413       453      Com                          millions)
IBRD                                          4       38        32        24
IDA                                           1        2         8        1 0                                    C: 248
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                              11      147       394
Official creditors                          104      229       196       220        E: 1,421
Private creditors                           143       -4        44       -29
Foreign direct investment                    -8       10       426       591                     _      _
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  68       72        59        15     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                16        7       100       136     B - IDA    0 Other muftilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          2       19        28        23     c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    14      -12        72       113
Interest payments                             2       20        12        11
Net transfers                                12      -32        59       102
Development Economics                                                                                                 10/1198



Page 1 of 4
Annex 11
Institutional Reform Project
Letter of Development Agreement
-A* .vIs
BOLIVIA
Presidencia del Congreso Nacional
Vicepresidencia de la Rcpublica
La Paz, May 19"' 1999
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. l'resident,
With this Development Progranm Letter, we wish to inform the World 13nik about thc objectives for Stato
Modernization and Institutional Reform that our Government intends to purstue over the following years
with the assistance of the Woild Bank.
As you kniow, the Government of Bolivia has adopted as its prinmary policy goal dte mitigatiol of poverty
and inproving the living coniditions of all Bolivians. This objective shall bo achieved by irplementibg
the policies designed unider the four pillars of our Govenmnemt Progran. These four pillars are:
Opportunity, to establish the fouiidations of economic growth and its better distributio'n; Equity, to
provide the majority of the population with the basic services required for a mnore equitable devi1opmtant;
Iinstitutiolality, to lay the foiundations of viable and responsive Rtatc organizations in ordcr ut assure a
niore efficient and honcst public administration; aind Dignity, to witldraw Bolivia fiom -the drug
trafficking circuit during the next five years.
We havc identified the institutional strungthening of government organizations as one of the piary
areas where m-edium and long-tenn efforis are required, building on the institutional refoiin and
modeTnization started in Bolivia in 1985. Deepeniig this procwcs is a necessary coc dition for tle success
of economic and social reform is) Bolivia being supported by international cooperation.
In order to achieve this objective, 1he Government has elaborated and initiated tS e National Integrity Plan
(a strategy for institutional development and fighting agaillst corruption). Within this stratcgy an
Inistitutioral Rcforn Project has beenl developed in order to promote the strengthening an(d todernizatioil
of Bolivia's public adninistration, through the establishment of an efficient, hoincst and result-oriented
public service eultOlre.
The Institutionial Reforn lroject bas been designed in three stages thatt initially contemplate a 10-year
period. The Project would be supported by the World Bank th} ough an Adaptabli Prograin Credit (APC.),
joined by other donors and co-financiers. Theusegoals and objc6tives of ibe project are well described iii
the project docunients prepared jointly with the Bank, but wc would highlight thc rollow ing points.
THE INSTITUTIONAL REFORM PROJECT
336ed on the proposals andl evaluaticns carried out betweoon the Banik and the Government, 1he main
components tox be irnplcm.ented during the tbtre stages of the Project have been identified:



Page 2 of 4
BOlIVIA
Prcsidencia del Congreso Nacional
Viceprcsidencia de la Republica
Ilorizonlal Reforms
The following reforms are ainmed at establishing ihe regulatory basis for institutional refonn as well as
creating a system of iricentivcs that prolote ani bonaest resuIt-owiented adrministation:
(i) Implementation of the mauagement systems establisbed by Law  1178 (SAECO), through the
modcmization of thc budgetary procedures (biudgcting by results) anid the creation of a pelornmance
evaluaiion system for public agencies.
it is exprected that at tdie end of tlie firstphasc of the Project specific noims that regulate tlhe
functioninig: of 1hese systems will have bceo establisled. A.lsq, it is expected thalt ihe perfornance
evaluation system lbr public agencies will be impilemented in the Ministries of tje executive
brhanh (ceniral. govermelit). During the second phase, tle systems will have been eWstablisbed in
the regional level (priafecturas).
(ii)  Implementation of a modern policy of human-resource management in ihe piublic administraiion
by carrying out a rcform in the'Civil Servicc Systam to establish a piublic servIce admhiustrative
career.
To accomplish this goal, a Civil Servant's Statute (Estatuto dcl lFuncionario Piblico) will be
passed, see4in  1o withdraw politicaltinfleice andl uncourage professionalism: in the public
administration. It is expected that at the caid 'of the'firct phase at least 2080 civil selvants will h4vc
been incorporated to the&adminiitslra6iie career in at leasl7 public agencies through a' tranparent
and competitive process. Likewise, around 6000 civil servants will have been ,iotporated to tle
administrative career by thIe end of Ihe second stage andl 9,400 by the end of tbe'third stage.
(iii)  Inmplementation of specific anti-corruption policies to proinoto an honest administration is in Our
view a necessary condition to increuse effectiveness and efficiency in puHlic:services. Practical
corruption control mechanisms will be estailished through sworn declaritions' of assets :and
in)conmes of puiblic servants,. ald 'modem  nbnqn' and transparent instruments for . government
procuremiient will be implemented. Public bureaucracy will be simplified' id specific effofrtA will
be made in order to redut;o orrilption in reveinue agencies (inte a1 revenue s and customs).
Additionally, the strengthening of independent organizations in clharge of tlhe investigation and
prosccution of conuption aid fraud' in 'the public admini4itior "will be .enooulaged.  Suih
institutions ire thlc Ombudpeson officc, tbo cnpiroileri(efieral nn'd thePblic Miristy. M
A. special cffort will be malde through a broad social cointnunicition and public education
camppaign, to en.lcourage cffcctivc social participation in st chngtheed national integrity through a
reinvigoration of ethical values and cr'aioibf a ZEi toleraxicc culture towads c6rilptipn.



Page 3 of 4
BOLIVIA
I'residencia del Congieso Nacional
Vicepresidencia dc la Rcptrblica
It is expected that, as a result of these efforts, the perccption of corrtption regarding the public
administration prevalcnt in public opiiion (780) will have been diminished by 10% by tie end of
the first pbase and by 30% by the edxl of tho program period.
Vertical Reforms
T'he success of the horiomntal reforms described above will dcpxnd to a great extent on the ability of
various public agencies to develop and impilement specific modemnization processes withlin their own
administrativc structures. With this in mind, comprehensive orgdnizational rceorms will be developed
and inmplemented in pilot agcncies of the central Govemmcnt and regional administration (Ministerios
and Prefecturas).
Thse processes of institutional reform will contemplate a comprehensive diagnosis of every agency to be
niodmerized, evaluating the formal and informal functions that they perfonn. the clarity witl which their
institutional mission is percived, the rationality of their organiizational stlrcture and.acnistrativec
Systems, thse quantity and quality of their human resources aid tlle strength of their ffiancial .and
budgetauy management systens.
Based on the aforementioned diagnosis every agency shall prepare, with the assistatnce of the Project, an
in;itutional reform  strategy ained at developing a service and restilts-oriented culture within the
organization.  This woild entail a revision of the agenicy's mission and objectives as well as the.
application of Imtodemn administrative tools that enable the organization to achieve its goals in a more
officient and offective manner.
After having considered lhe complexity of the institutional reform process, it has been decided to carry
out a gradual process during dte three foreseen stages of the Project.  Dwring thc fitst stage, an
experimental proemss will be started in seven public institutions. Potential candiLlates at this stage include
the ministries of Finance, l4ousing and Basic Services, Agriculture and Rural Development, Planning and
Sustainable Development, and Eiducatiin; the Internal Revcnue Service, the Customs Service, anid a
Regional Government (Prefecture) which we are in the process of identifying. Other agencies will be
able to join thc reformn as the necessary tochnical and financial conditions become available.
It is expected that during tlie second stage of the Project the remaiuing eight regional govertunents
(Prefecturas) will join the reform effort as well as the ministries of Health, Justice, and others. Finally,
during the third stage, the implementation of the reform program will be completed in the remiaining
public organizations of the central administration.
The nmain costs involvcd with the executionl of the reforms described above are tlhose related to the
competitive salarics of the civil servants (recruited under the new Civil Servant's Statute)'. Thiiis will
imply a nominal intcrease in current expenditures of the public sector. lthrottgh studiae of fiscal impact, it
was shown that the Treasury will be, able to absorb this incremental changcs duriing a tcn-year period
witliout raisinig tlhe. public deficit or modifyhig the distributio<n of public expentditure; tlhe increased fiscal
reveulles resulting 1rom the project itself will contribute to the accomplishment of this goal. Let us



Page 4 of 4
BOLI VIA
Presidencia de] Coligreso Nacional
Vicepresidencia de la Rcpblihca
emphasize here Ihat we arc fully committed through this project and under the terms of tile proposed Civil
Servant's Statute to ensure that the go ermuent takes no action formally or informally to abuse the
adniiniatration of human resources for partisan politicalpurposes. Moreover, we are dedicated to c;reating
a lprofessioLial and merit-based civil service open to all qualified ilidividuals without regard to political
affiliatioin, elhnic background, or gonder'and we will sieek to ensure adherenice to this principle.
Political Commitment for the conlitility of (he Project
'The development of a new institutional culiUre in the public administration is a process thlat will demand a
strong commitment fot the continuity of the project from eveTy agency involved in ihe prjiccL. ']his.
implies the need to assure a high-level political commitment that guatantces that these policies will bc
continued despite the changes of govermneiit adminisirations that will take place during die 10 yeals
envisaged for the project,
With this goal in minid, the Government has estalblished the National Commission of Integrity (C'omisi6n
Nacional de Integridad), which coordinates the policies of institutiortal development aLnd the fight a,ainst
comiption. Tbe Vice-President of the Republic presides over thc C.onDmission, wbich wll,berespohsible
for coordirnating the execution of the project with every agency involved.
Additionially, as part of the National Dialogue comvoked by the Government, representatives of the civil
society and political parties will be involved in the monitoring and supervision of thlc Project, in order to
assure its continuity during tie 1O-year period of-its execution.
We thus consider that the Government, witl the cooperation of thc World Bnuk anid otber donots, will be
able to take considerable steps in the process of contolidating the institutioinal strengtheping of the Statc,
tlherefore contribuing to the auistainability of the conomic and %ocial development policies and thle fight
against poverty that will be implemented diuring the, next years.
Sincerely,-
Z  iroga R.                        c erLer
NTCE3 PRESIDENT OF TllHE   MINIS ER O FINANCE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA



