Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
June 20, 2003 
 
Mr. Javier Comboni  
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
Re:  BOLIVIA - Japanese Grant for the Implementation of the Institutional 
Reform Project - Grant No. TF052116
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate the 
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred ninety thousand three hundred twenty eight US 
dollars ($290,328.00) (the Grant) to the Republic of Bolivia (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and 
any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure.  The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
Page  2
2
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Marcelo Giugale 
Director 
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED:
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
By: 
/s/ Javier Comboni Salinas 
 
Minister of Finance 
 
Date:   July 31, 2003 
Page  3
3
ANNEX
Purpose, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purpose 
and 
Activities
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the implementation of the 
Institutional Reform Project (P062790), which has as main objectives to
 
establish the legal and 
institutional foundation for a merit based and de-politicized civil service; create the regulatory 
and organizational framework for increased integrity within the public sector; and significantly 
improve budgetary and financial management practices within the Ministry of Finance 
complemented by more transparent and effective tax collection by the Internal Revenue and 
Customs Services.  
 
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
Carrying out of a capacity building exercise to ensure the Recipient will effectively assume 
the sustainability and security of the 
Sistema Integrado de Gestión y Modernización Administrativa
 
(SIGMA) which is under implementation by: 
 
(i) 
conducting analysis to select an agency to operate and maintain SIGMA; 
and  
 
(ii) 
ensuring security of the SIGMA to guarantee service to public entities, data 
transfer, and back-up systems. 
 
These Activities are estimated to cost US$290,328 equivalent. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient, through the Ministry of Finance, shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with 
IDA's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) take all necessary measures 
required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Republic of Bolivia for purposes related to the Grant; 
and (f) cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively 
for the purposes of the Project.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall 
so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
Page  4
4
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
in US$ Dollar
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) 
Consultants’ services  
 
266,328 
 
100% 
 
(2)   Goods 
 
24,000 
 
100% of foreign expenditures 
and 85% of local expenditures 
 
TOTAL 
 
290,328
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to IDA’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 30, 2004
 
or such 
later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except 
in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank 
approval of financing for the Project. However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
if, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or 
such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such 
evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
Page  5
5
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to, or on the order of, the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of individual consultants costing less 
than the equivalent of US$25,000; and (b) all goods, all under such terms and conditions as IDA 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by 
IDA
.
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in US 
Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of the Republic of 
Bolivia on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
IDA
,
including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
IDA
,
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
IDA
,
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
IDA
;
(ii) furnish to 
IDA
 as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as 
IDA
 shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to 
IDA
 such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as 
IDA
 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA
 has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable 
IDA
’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
Page  6
6
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA
 may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which IDA has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with IDA or any development credit 
agreement with the IDA shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the 
Republic of Bolivia, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any 
development credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended; or (c) if IDA has decided, at 
any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (d) if the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  7
7
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  the short list of 
consultants for services for Activities under paragraph 1 of the Annex, estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Activities under paragraph 1 of the Annex estimated to cost less than 
US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for Activities under paragraph 1 of the Annex (a) shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (b) may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.   
Page  8
8
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by IDA. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Activities estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, or the qualifications 
and experience of the candidate in the case of sole-source selection, as well as the terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants, shall be furnished to IDA for its prior 
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply 
to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the 
word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”. 
Page  9
9
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount equivalent to US$35,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  10
10
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
Page  11
11
 
WB77786 
M:\BOLIVIA\JGAGrants\TF052116-Institutional-Reform.doc 
June 18, 2003 3:36 PM
 
