DEocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqot No. 7712-lAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
FEBRUARY 16, 1990
Africa Regioi
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Industry and Energy Operations Divisior.
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Malagasy Francs (PMG)
US$1.00      P     MG 1,580 (March 1989)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AO        - Money Market Bidding
APB       -  Professional Bankers' Association
APEM      - Malagasy Enterprise Promotion Association
AU        -  SME Assistance Unit
BFV       -  Bank for Commerce
BMOI      - Malagasy Bank of the Indian Ocean
BNI       -  Bank for Industry
BP        -  Project Bureau
BTM       -  Bank for Agriculture
CB        -  Central Bank of Madagascar
CBD       -  Central Banking Department of the IMF
CCCE      -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI       - Chamber of Commerce & Industry
CFC       -  Training Center for Managers
CIDA      -  Canadian Intetnational Development Agency
CNAPS     -  Social Security Fund
CNFPB     -  National Banking Training Center
FED       - European Development Fund
FIVMPAMA  - Association of Malagasy Entrepreneurs
FNI       - National Investment Fund
FNUP      -  Commodity Price Stabilization Fund
GEM       - Malagasy Entrepreneur Grouping
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
ILO       -  International Labour Organization
,.OCAE    -  National Institute for Commercial Science and Accounting
IRF       -  Investment Rediscount Fund
ISAc      -  Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
ITPAC     -  Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
JCEM      - Association of Young Entrepreneurs
MEP       - Ministry of Economy and Plan
MFB       - Ministry of Finance and Budget
OGL       -  Open General License System
PAS       -  French Structural Adjustment Credit
PB        -  Project Bureau at the Central Bank
PE        -  Public Enterprise
PFI       -  Participating Financial Intermediaries
PSAC      -  Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SERDI     -  Industrial Development Studies Agency
SDR       -  Special Drawing Rights
SME       -  Small and Medium Enterprise
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
UNIDO     -  United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFICIL USE OM.Y
MADAGASCAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FNANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      i-ii
Introduction  . . .  .  ....  ......  ...  ......  ....  .......  ....  .......  1
PART I.  THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
A. Economic Setting  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1
Background  ..1
Structural Adjustment Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
Recent Developments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        4
B4 The Fnrri4al: Retor    - e .     ..... ......... .                  4
Structure.                                                       4
Performance of the Banking Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .        7
Liquidity and Profitability   . . . . . . . . . . . . .        7
Portfolio Restructuring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
Lack of Competition   . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .         9
Monetary Policy .10
Interest Rates, Resource Mobilization, and
Efficiency in the Banking System  . . . . . . . . . .       14
C. Private Enterprise Sector   . . .          . . .  .  .  .          15
Past Performance and Policy   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
Industry ... . . . . ..... 15
Agriculture   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16
Services    ... ...                                             17
Constraints and Development Potential   . . . . . . . .       17
Small and Medium Enterprises  .  .    .  .      . . . .       18
Government SME Policies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
Technical Assistance to SMEs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Madagascar
in January 1989. The mission was composed of Messrs. Christian Schmidt and
Andres Jaime of AF3IE, of Philippe Callier of EDIFI and of Messrs. Heinz
Bertsch and Roland Tenconi, Consultants.
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PARTU .   W _GROUP LE ING STRATEGY   . . . . . . . . . . . .       21
PART III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Project Objectives and Justification  . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Lessons Learned from Previous Projects  . . . . . . . . . .    22
Project Description   . .................   .                  23
Sector Policy Measures and Conditions   . . . . .  . . . .     23
APEX Credit Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .   25
Size of the Component   . . . .. . .  . . .  ... . ..  .     25
Institutional Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
Eligible Intermediaries   . .     .       ............ ...   26
Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects  . . . . . . . . .    26
Terms and Conditions of Financing   . . . . . . . . . . .    27
Subloan Processing and Administration   . . . . . . . . .    29
Assistance and Training Component   . . . . . . . .*. . . .    30
Design and Special Features   . . . .... * . . . . .         30
Financial Sector TA Program   . ....      ..... ... .        30
Technical Assistance to the Mining Sector   . . . . . . .    31
Private Sector Framework  ... .  .  .  .   ..............    .  31
Development of Small and Medium Enterprises    . . . . . .   32
Summary of Estimated Cost   ... .................            35
Terms and Conditions  ....  .  .  I .           ...          35
Project Bureau   . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . .  35
SME Assistance Unit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
Project Cost and Financing  .        .  . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .  37
Project Implementation  ....  .  .  .  .   ................    .  38
ProjectManagement  .................                         38
Procurement and Disbursement  ... .  .  .   .............   .  38
Special Account   .... . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .          39
Auditing and Reporting  ........              ....           39
Project Benefits and Risks  ................                   40
Benefits    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  40
Risks  .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .    .  . .   .   .  .  .  .  . .  . .   .   .  .  40
PART IV - AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED   . . . . . . .    40
ANNEXES
I. Distribution of Credit by Sector   . .  . . . . . . .        43
II. Distribution of Credit by Term and Type of Borrower  .       44
III.  Summary Balance Sheet of BFV   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
IV.  Summary Balance Sheet of BNI   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    46
V.  Sumnary Balance Sheet of BTM   . . K    .........           47
VI.  Central Bank Organization Chart  ... .  .  .  .     . . .  .   .  48
VII.  Schedule of Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    49
VIII.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File   . .      50



MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of Madagascar.
Beneficiaries:     Central Bank of Madagascar (CB), participating financial
intermediaries, the Small and Medi'm Enterprise (SHE)
Assistance Unit at the Ministry o' Economy and Plan,
Chamber of Conmerce and Industry, Association of Young
Entrepreneurs, local training institutions and
consulting firms.
Amount:            SDR 36.4 million (US$48.0 million).
Termst             Standard IDA, 40 years.
Relending Terms:   Mi)  The borrower would onlend US$45.0 million
equivalent in local currency to CB at CB's regular
reference rate (currently 12.0 percent p.a.) minus
an administrative fee of 0.5 percent (to cover the
operating cost of the Project Bureau within CB) for 30
years, including a grace period of 10 years. CB would
onlend the funds to qualified participating financial
intermediaries at its   regular reference rate with a
flexible amortization schedule reflecting the aggregate
maturity of subloans extended by intermediaries. The
onlending and final lending rates would be flexible and
adjusted periodically. The spread which participating
intermediaries could charge to beneficiary enterprises
would initially be limited to a maximum of 7 percentage
points. Prior to release of the Credit's second
portion, this cap would be removed. The Government will
assume the foreign exchange risk. With real interest
rates in local currency roughly equivalent to real
interest rates in internatlonal markets, and as the
exchange rate and interest rate policies are broadly
based on a market-clearance approach, domestic interest
rates would adequately reflect the expectations of
devaluation. The project would include provisions to
ensure the continued adequacy over time of the onlending
arrangements, i.e., that they continue to reflect the
economic cost of capital, including the implicit foreign
exchange risk.
(ii) The Us$3.0 million equivalent in local currency
allocated for Technical Assistance would be made
available to implementing agencies by Government on
a grant basis.



- ii -
Benefits:          Expected benefits are to help maintain the momentum of
the reform process in the financial sector, especiallv
now that the first new private comercial bank has just
started operations. The Credit would furthermore act
as a cacalyst, paving the way for more active private
sector initiatives not only in the financial sector, but
likewise in the industrial and other productive sectors,
through helping support proposed reforms in the Chamber
of Commerce and Industry and involving the private
sector in the technical assistance component. Broader
access to credit by the private sector is expected
through the APEX line of credit component, which would
encourage real sector supply response in the form of
investment and reconstitution of permanent working
capital.
Risks:               idagascar is undergoing substantial changes in its
banking sector not only through portfolio restructuring
of existing banks but also through allowing private
capital to re-enter the sector for the first time since
1972. While the project aims at reinforcing and
carrying forward these reforms, there remains a risk
that the political will to continue with this process
might falter, especially in implementing expected
privatization efforts of financial institutions and
within the enterprise sector in general. The
Government's commitment to reform and achievements
during the last five years suggest that the risk is
not excessive.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local    Foreign      Total     2
------------USS million-----------
Investments                            18.5       44.0      62.5    94.3
Technical Assistance and Tra'ning       1.6        1.9       3.5      5.3
SME Assistance Unit                     0.2        0.1       0.3      0.5
TOTAL                              20.3       46.0      66.3   100.0
Financing Plan:
Subborrowers                           18.1         -       18.1    27.3
SME Assistance Unit                     0.2         -        0.2      0.3
Proposed IDA Credit                     2.0       46.0      48.0    72.4
TOTAL                                  20.3       46.0      66.3   100.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1990     1991     1992      1993    1994   1995   1996   1997
-------------------------(USS million)---------------------
Annual         0.5       3.5      7.5       8.5     8.3    9.4    6.0    4.3
Cumulative     0.5       4.0     11.5      20.0    28.3   37.7   43.7   48.0
Rate of Return: n/a
Map: n/a



MADAGASCAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT (APEX) PROJECT
Introduction
1.01      Since the early 1980s the Government of Madagascar has
demonstrated its commitment to the adjustment process through the
implementation of important and difficult measures which were supported
by several IDA adjustment operations and by successive IMF stand-by
arrangements. The most recent adjustment operation, the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC), approved in June 1988, made substantial progress
on banking sector issues and initiated a process of policy reforns, both
to be supported and carried further by the proposed Credit.
1.02      Overall, the operation would blend into the ongoing Government
policy reform program launched in 1983. It is intended to consolidate the
financial sector policies supported by earlier credits, and to capitalize
on the major restructuring efforts already made in the financial sector
through additional supply-oriented measures in a number of important
policy areas. Its main components would be: a US$45.0 million APEX credit
line for financing viable majority private investment projects in all
productive sectors, the provision of a US$3.0 million technical assistance
and training component and, finally, a set of accompanying policy reforms
concernxing the financial and private enterprise sectors.
PART I - THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
A. Economic Setting
1.03      Background.  With a population of 11.6 million growing at 32 per
year and a per capita income of US$200 in 1987, Madagascar remains one of
the poorest countries in the world. Its economic record is mixed,
characterized by stagnation from 1972 to 1980, sharp deterioration between
1980 and 1982, and financial stabilization with limited economic growth
since 1983. Preliminary estimates for 1989 suggest that economic growth
has picked up, reaching over 4X. Agriculture continues to be the mainstay
of the economy, employing four-fifths of the population, creating about 42Z
of GDP and generating over 802 of export earnings.



1 '4      The poor economic performance of the 1970s stemmed largely from
in&ppropriate economic policies, which emphasized a much increased role for
the public sector, with industrialization as the central objective, agri-
culture in a supporting role, nationalization of foreign-owned enterprises,
extensive consumer subsidies, and controls over private economic activity.
Nevertheless, until 1978, the Government also pursued cautious financial
policies that kept the fiscal deficit low, held the balance of payments in
approximate equilibrium and resulted in a debt service ratio of only 4Z.
1.05      Between 1978 and 1980, the Government embarked on a policy of
massive public investment. It was poorly coordinated, concentrated on
economically unviable prujacts, and was financed mainly with external
borrowing on commercial terms. This policy, combined with declining terms
of trade and stagnant domestic revenues produced a fiscal deficit of 142 of
gross domestic product (GDP) in 1980, an annual inflation rate of 302, and
a large increase in the external debt burden that has severely constrained
economic growth.
1.06      In mid-1980, the Government ini.Ated measures aimed at
financial stabilization, and from 1982 ons-,rds it reinforced them, with
IMF assistance. From 1981 to 1986, policy adjustment centered largely on
demand management. During this period, the fiscal deficit was reduced
substantially (from 14Z to 4.5Z of GDP in 1988), mainly by lessening
expenditures.
1.07      Largely as a result of these developments, the annual expansion
of domestic credit fell sharply, and annual inflation dropped from about
30Z in 1981-82 to about 132 in 1983-86. On the external side, the current
account deficit was cut almost in half from its level of about US$425
million in 1981. With exports stagnating and scheduled external interest
payments almost doubling, the brunt of the adjustment feil on imports,
which dropped by more than half in real terms since 1982. Real GDP, which
had contracted by 10? between 1980 and 1982, started growing again in
1983, and reached an estimated growth rate of 32 in 1938 and over 42 in
1989.
Structural Adjustment Policies
1.08      After several years of progress in stabilizing the economy,
the Government turned its attention to restructuring the economy through
supply-oriented measures after 1985. Initially, it pursued a cautious
reform strategy addressing structural distortions sector by sector, based
on their importance, beginning with industry, moving on to agriculture and
the trade and exchange rate regimes and then, with support from the Bank's
PSAC, approved by the Executive Directors in June 1988, on to a broader
agenda that includes public sector and partial banking sector reform.
1.09      Concerning industry, the Government, in 1985, eliminated most
ex-factory price controls and reduced the controls on profit margins.
It also improved the quality of public investment in manufacturing,
eliminated the export taxes on manufactured products, and ovex-hauled the
investment code. IDA supported this effort with an Industrial Sector



-3
Adjustment Credit (ISAC) in FY86. In 1987, the Government-owned banking
sector tightened credit to loss-making public enterprises, a step that
led some unviable units to close.  In parallel, the Government undertook
a series of studies to determine the viability of public enterprises and
of the financial sector.
1.10      The sectoral policy improvements in industry could not result in
a lasting supply response as long as the external trade and exchange regime
continued to be dominated by quantitative restrictions and an overvalued
exchange rate.  Thus, in 1987, the Government moved to establish a trade
and foreign exchange allocation regime broadly based on market forces.
The measures included: (i) a large devaluation totaling 462 in foreign
currency terms (Hay-June 1!87); (ii) replacement of the quantitative
import restrictions, which were being used for protective purposes, with
a simplified tariff structure (January 1988); and (iii) implementation of
a market-determined allocation system for foreign exchange for imports,
through the open general license (OGL) system (July 1988).  IDA supported
these reforms with the Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC)
in FY87.  More recently, and in carrying the above sector specific changes
further, IDA approved the PSAC in FY88, which centered on:
(i) reforming the budgetary process to raise the efficiency of
allocation and utilization of Government resources;
(ii)  streamlining the parastatal sector to concentrate public
resources on activities that are economically viable and that
belong in the public domain;
(iii)  reforming the commercial banking system, including its opening to
private capital to improve competitiveness and efficiencyt and
(iv)  removing of administrative obstaclas to the expansion and
diversification of exports, including elimination of the state
monopolies over traditional export crops.
1.11      These st:uctural reforms are complex and it will take two to
three years to implement them effectively. During this period, GDP growth
is expected to continue improving gradually and surpassing pzpr2t±sl6it
growth. To implement the program successfully requires changes in the
administration's core instruments for macroeconomic management, including
the spin-off of state-owned enterprises to the private sector, and changes
in the financial sector, including credit for investment. Recognizing
these needs, the Government has decided to improve the availability of term
financing through the banking system (which is in the process of partially
being privatized) and through accompanying policy changes in the financial
sector. The proposed Credit would support the implementation of these
objectives.



-4-
Recent Developments
1.12      Economic developments in 1987 and early 1988 were disappointing,
mainly because of exogenous factors and in spite of the considerable policy
improvements, mentioned above. Despite good performance of non-traditional
exports, exports as a whole fell by about 15? in SDR terms in 1988, largely
because of unfavorable developments in world prices for coffee, the
country's major export ccnuodity. Imports also declined for the sixth
consecutive year, reaching leqs than half the 1981 level in real terms.
Because of these external developments, fiscal revenues were lower than
foreseen in the stand-by arrangement with the IMF. However, prudent
monetary management led to inflation lower than forecast, even with the
major devaluation of May-June 1987. and the expenditure program remained
broadly on track.
1.13      The year 1988 was a period of transition, during which many of
the policy prerequisites for sustained growth were put into place. They
produced a limited initial supply response, mostly in the second half of
the year. The principal reasons for the still limited response were,
in addition to infrastructural bottlenecks and a general climate of
uncertainty, a further decline in the terms of trade, continued adminis-
trative restrictions, some controls over exports, and a banking sector
still faced with portfolio problems which resulted in limited credit
allocation. The credit problems had derived largely from the poor
financial condition of the public enterprises (PEs). However, and notably
-during the second half of 1988 and continuing in 1989, exports began to
increase and so did capacity utilization of new and smaller firms.  In
parallel, the severe decline in imports during the first half of 1988
was more than reserved in the second half.  Because of the shift toward
*better-buy" imports fostered by the removal of quotas and by the OGL
introduction, 1988 marks the first year of the decade during which real
imports, of both producer and consumer goods, did not decline. The sum
of these signs permitted arriving at a convergence of views among the
Government, the IMF and IDA on a medium-term scenario entailing 4.5Z
projected real annual growth through 1992.
B. The Financial Sector
Structure
1.14      The Malagasy financial sector consists of the Central Bank, three
state commercial banks plus a recently constituted private commercial bank,
a postal savings and checking system, two state insurance companies and a
national investment fund. There is also a Social Security Fund (CNAPS)
and a Commodity Price Stabilization Fund (FNUP). In general, the sector
is marked by its predominantly public ownership and limited variety of
institutions, services and markets. The commercial banks enjoy a quasi-
monopoly in the collection of savings and the provision of credit.
Securities markets are non-existent and the issue of non-marketable
Treasury bills to the general public has had only limited success.



1.15      The Central Bank (CB) was established in 1973 following
Madagascar's decision to withdraw from the franc zone. The CE took over
the management of Madagascar's foreign assets as well as the formulation
and implementition of monetary and credit policies. In addition, the CB
determines ceilings on credit extended by the commercial banks, authorizes
loans in excess of specified amounts and allocates rediscount quotas.
Finally, the CB is also responsible for supervising commercial banks and
for determining various maximum or minimum ratios between their assets and
liabilities. The CB has a staff of 56 high-level professionals, including
its Antananarivo headquarters, the Toamasina branch and a representation
office in Paris. It is organized into eight departments which report to
the Director General and the Deputy Director General.  The CB's organi-
zation structure appears in Annex VI.
1.16      During the early 1980s, the CB's bank supervision performance was
lagging. The last inspection of a bank took place in 1983. It was only in
1985 that the CB, with the help of an outside auditor, set up criteria to
be used in classifying bank borrowers according to the degree of risk.
However, the CB did not define clear rules for the treatment of consortium
credits, write-offs and accrual of interest due on doubtful loans. In the
light of growing difficulties in the financial system, the CB has recently
been taking a more active role in supervising the commercial banks. In
June 1987, it obtained the services of a foreign expert that conducted a
diagnostic of the CB's supervision function and proposed measures to
correct the weaknesses. After the enactment of the new Banking Law in May
1988, which defined new supervisory functions for the CB, it prepared, in
consultation with IDA, a prcgram to strengthen the supervision of banks.
The proposed project would .clude a technical assistance component to
support the implementation of the above-mentioned program (para. 3.33).
Given the urgent need of this technical assistance, it has been launched
before the project effectiveness, through a PPF financing of US$250,000
approved on February 17, 1989.
1.17      In 1975, the then existing four private commercial banks
(largely foreign-owned or affiliated to foreign financial institutions)
were nationalized.  In 1977, the banks, together with the then State
Development Bank, were reorganized into three fully Government-owned
commercial banks, each of which was ir- principle responsible for a specific
sector of the economy: BNI for inCustry, BMD- for agriculture and BFV for
commerce. In practice, the specialization was never enforced rigidly and
has been somewhat limited by difficulties in determining the exact
boundaries of each sector, differences in the geographical distribution of
branches (BTH has branches in a number of localities where the other banks
are not represented) and the pooling of resources through consortium
credits. Loans by BDM and BFV to their specialized sectors (i.e.,
agriculture and commerce) represent only about one-third of their total
portfolio. ENI directs a major portion of its resources (802) towards
industry, mining, construction and transport but nevertheless accounts for
only 50Z of the total loans to the industrial secto.. All three banks have
important branch networks. BTM, due to its focus on the rural sector, has



- 6 -
the largest one, with a total of 64 offices and 1,656 staff. BFV's network
includes 26 offices and has a staff of 1,350. BNI, which tends more
towards corporate lending, has 23 offices and a staff of 1,191.
1.18      Until recently, the three state banks were  governed by a Joint
Management Board. As departing members were never replaced, membership
in the Board declined from 12 to 2--the Minister of Finance (ex-officio
chairman) and the Executive Director (OAdministrateur D6l1gue") of the
banks. In practice, the Board rarely met and the Executive Director alone
approved loans exceeding the specified ceilings. In November 1986, a new
and separate board was appointed *o.r each bank, consisting of the Minister
of Finance as Chairman and representatives of the Government and the public
and private sectors. In each board, the private sector is represented by 2
members out of 12. This particular reform has had a very limited impact on
the independence of the banks and the competition among them so far. In
addition, an abnormal situation still exists as high-level managers of the
Central Bank (including the Director of Inspection) are members of the
board of the three banks. This practice could undermine the ability of the
CB to exercise its supervislon role with independence and objectivity and
is therefore to be changed under the project.
1.19      Both BNI and BTM have channeled IDA lines of credit to Malagasy
enterprises. BNI was the beneficiary of Cr. 977-MAG approved by IDA in
January 1980 for US$5.0 million. It also received a US$5.0 million
industrial line of credit under IDA Cr. 1541-MAG, approved in December
1984. BTM has also participated as financial intermediary in two IDA
projects, namely through Cr. 1064-MAG in FY81 and Cr. 1804-HAG approved
in April 1987. The balance sheets of BFV, BNI and BTM are shown in
Annexes III to V.
1.20      The enactment of the new Banking Law in May 1988 opened the
banking system to the possible entrance of new institutions from the
private sector and to participation in the capital of the existing
institutions by private local or foreign investors. Formerly, the State
was the only economic agent allowed to be the owner of banks.
1.21      The first actual effect of this opening of the banking sector
has been the recent establishment of a fourth bank, a new private bank
(75Z foreign, 25Z local private sector ownership), which started operations
in mid-1989. This bank, called Banque Malgache de l'Ocean Indien (BMOI) is
initially operating only in the capital, and has a staff of approximately
60 employees, of which 6 expatriates. Its capital of PMG 2 billion limits
the maximum amount of its liabilities (mainly deposits) to FMG 25 billion
(about US$16 million). 1/ This compares with liabilities of PMG 132 to
203 billion for the three existing banks.
1/ This maximum amount arises from the 12.5:1 limit on the debt/equity
ratio set by the banking law.



-7-
1.22      The Professional Bankers' Association (APB) represents the
interests of the banking sector and advises the Minister of Finance, to
whom it reports. The APB began operations in June 1985. Its first major
task has been to begin work, on behalf of both Government and the banks, on
a case-by-case review of the banks' portfolios of non-performing parastatal
enterprises. The Postal Checking System and the Postal Savings System
provide windows in post offices which make checking and passbook savings
accounts accessible to depositors in most parts of the country. The Postal
Savings system was officially transformed into a savings bank (Caisse
d'Epargne) in 1985, but until the and of 1988 no actual change had taken
place, and the System continued to operate as the traditional postal
savings institution. The impact of the two systems on the financial sector
is very limited. The two insurance companies are also controlled by the
State, which is their major shareholder. Their portfolio consists mainly
of time deposits, Treasury bills, equity, bonds issued by banks, loans to
the Government and loans to policyholders. No special housing financing
institution fulfills the need for this type of credit ir. Madagascar.
1.23      The National Investment Fund (FNI) was originally intended to
utilize, for productive investments, the long-term resources of state-
controlled institutional investors, such as the Social Security Fund
(CNAPS), the Commodity Price Stabilization Fund (FNUP) and the two State
insurance companies. The sole shareholder of the FRI is the Government.
The statutes of the FNI restrict its beneficiaries to publicly controlled
and socialist cooperatives units of production which are required to
relinquish their decision-making authority to the FNI in order to qualify
for use of its resources. In the early 19808, the FMI participated in
20 projects which included some of the more ill-advised industrial and
agro-industrial public sector projects. Since then, FNI has not made new
commitments. At the end of 1986, FNI's assets amounted to FMG 10 billion.
Performance of the Banking Sector
a) Liquidity and Profitability
1.24      As of September 30, 1988, short-term loans of the banking system,
representing 82? of the total portfolio, amounted to FKG 496 billion (see
Annex II). This apparent high liquidity position is misleading because the
short-term nature of many loans .L questionable. Rollovers are frequent
and a laige portion of short-term credits are extended in the form of
overdrafts, which makes it difficult to identify non-performing loans.
At least one-third of the short-term loans went to enterprises whose
turnover was a fraction of the amount of their short-term debts to the
banks. It is difficult to see how those enterprises will be able to
generate adequate cash flows to reimburse their short-term debts.
1.25      In 1987, bank profits before provisions represented 35? of
capital and reserves.  These results, however, were inflated by the
underestimation of the volume of non-performing loans and the accrual
cf some interest due on doubtful and contentious loans. In recent years,
banks have needed extremely high operating profits in order to generate
sufficient cash flow to constitute portfolio provisions. Since the system



-8-
has an oligopolistic structure, these profits have been obtained by
imposing very high interest spreads (para. 1.33). The current opening of
the system to new institutions and shareholders, and the resulting increase
in competition should reduce these rents and, therefore, the banks will
have to restructure themselves in order to lower their administrative
expenses and reduce their need for additional provisions.
b) Portfolio Restructuring
1.26      All three state banks have been in a difficult situation for
several years as a significant portion of their loan portfolio was
non-performing, or in practice frozen through successive rollovers of
short-term loans. The portfolio problems of some banks were serious
enough to have made them virtually insolvent.
1.27      By the mid-1980s, loan losses sometimes exceeded substantially
the value of equity, so that liabilities far exceeded the realizable value
of assets. At the end of 1987, the aggregate loan portfolio of the three
banks amounted to FMG 526 billion and included, according to the auditors,
FMG 221 billion or 42Z of doubtful loans in C (probable risk) and D
(certain risk) categories. The situation however varied from bank to bank
as loans classified in C and D represented between roughly 30? and 60? of
the total portfolio depending on the bank. In addition, off-balance sheet
engagements increased significantly the risk exposure of the Malagasy banks
as contingent liabilities on behalf of clients amounted to 1MG 238 billion
at the end of 1987. Of this, 242 were off-balance sheet engagements in
favor of clients classified as C and D, adding some FMG 57 billion to the
losses to be provisioned by banks. Considering this latter factor, IDA
estimated that, by end 1988, required additional provisions ranged from
FMG 89 billion to FMG 149 billion, depending on the value assigned to
Government guarantees and the probability of contingent liabilities
becoming actual ones. This compares with a consolidated equity for the
three banks at the same date of PMG 84 billion.
1.28      The above situation has been addressed recently.  Following
agreements reached under ITPAC and PSAC, the Central Bank mandated the
first round of write-offs in April 1988 for a total of FMG 82 billion,
which reduced the existing provisions against bad loans to FMG 57 billion.
Another set of agreements was reached in February 1989 about a second round
of provisioning and write-offs for two of the three banks (BFV and BTM).
The subsequent portfolio restructuring, implemented in April 1989, resulted
in provisioning and writing-off another PMG 48 billion (US$30 million
equivalent). To achieve this write-off, French CCCE-PAS counterpart funds
were used to cover part of the financing. The second round of write-offs
for BNI will be undertaken in connection with the overall institutional
restructuring of this bank (para. 1.34), which is expected to take place
before the end of 1990. The remaining counterpart funds from the CCCE-PAS
(approximately FMG 10 billion) would be used to finance the restructuring
of BNI.



-9-
c) Lack of Competition
1.29      Besides the problems associated with the quality of the
portfolios of the state banks, the most important problem hindering the
effective mobilization and allocation of financial resources by the
financial sector to promote growth is the lack of competition. This lack
of competition is due to the ownership and management structure of the
banking system, to the institutional framework in which monetary policy
is conducted and to the scarcity of relevant information available to che
public.
1.30      The ownership and management structure of the banking system
hinders competition within the financial sector firstly because the
commercial banks enjoy a quasi-monopoly in the collection of savings and
the provision of credit and do not face any significant competition from
non-bank financial intermediaries or markets, and secondly, because the
three banks of significant size are all owned by the State. Although since
November 1986 each bank has its own separate management board, as noted
earlier, each board is headed by the Minister of Finance and the
representation of the private sector on the 12 member boards is limited
to two members. The remaining board membeIs are civil servants (including
Central Bank staff) which tend to make the three institutions act more as
a consortium than as competitors.
1.31      In addition, until the enactment of the new Banking Law in May
1988, the private sector, local or foreign, was barred from participating
in the capital of the Malagasy banks. The new Banking Law opened the
banking system to the possible entrance of new institutions from the
private sector and to the participation of private investors, foreign
or local, to the capital of existing banks.
1.32      The new institutional framework is expected to foster effective
competition within the banking sector by allowing free entry in the
industry. Potential banks, however, must receive the agreement of the
Minister of Finance. Among the criteria to be met to receive the agreement
of the authorities is the "capacity of the enterprise to contribute to the
Government's goals in the field of economic development'. A restrictive
interpretation of this criterion could be an obstacle to free entry in the
sector in response to profit opportunities. Weakening of competition among
banks could also result fxom another inconsistent provision of the new
Banking Law (art. 51) which requires that a bank cannot lend to any client
more than 50 percent of the client's total indebtedness.
1.33      In addition to these legal and institutional constraints, it
is clear that the small number of banks, the pre-allocation of credit
ceilings by banks, and the absence of effective alternatives to the banking
system for the collection of savings and the provision of credit is likely
to encourage the formation of e cartel. Such a cartml exists in practice
and price competition does not exist presently among the Malagasy banks:
Although most interest rates are now officially deregulated, all banks
adhere to the interest rate schedule established by the Professional
Bankers' Association (APB).



- 10 -
1.34      Although the new fourth bank is of a significantly smaller size
than the existing public banks, it constie tes the first actual step to
making the banking system more competitive. Subsequent steps would include
the establishment of additional new banks and the partial privatization of
the state-owned banks. In accordance with agreements under PSAC, BNI would
go through an overall corporate restructuring and at least 51Z of its
ownership would be private, and at least 252 of the ownership of BFV and/or
BTM would also be privatized.
Monetary Policy
1.35      Since its introduction in 1982, the main instrument used to
control the monetary aggregates in Madagascar is the overall credit
ceiling. The CB sets quarterly an overall ceiling on net domestic credit
and a subceiling on credit to Government. The global ceiling on bank
credit to non-Government is tbe" derived as a residual. The CB then
apportions a fraction of this global ceiling between the banks, with the
remaining portion being allocated for the CB's own direct lending. This
apportioning of the commercial banks global ceiling into individual credit
ceilings is carried out by the CB based on banks' sources and uses of funds
over the preceding three-year period and their projections for the forth-
coming year. Consequently, this method of distribution of individual
credit ceilings is tantamount to preserving banks' relative positions in
the banking sector and thus contributes to limit competition among banks.
1.36      In order to increase the effectiveness of monetary policy, the
Government and the Central Bank are launching a process of reform of their
policy framework, with the main thrust of replacing direct quantitative
control mechanisms by a more flexible system of monetary control based on
the use of market-oriented indirect instruments. As part of this process,
which would be supported by the proposed IDA Credit, the present system of
competition-limiting individual credit ceilings would be dismantled in two
steps. First, the current system would be replaced by a competition-
oriented method of distribution of individual ceilings,2/ and later, once
the indirect monetary control mechanisms are in place and have been tested,
individual credit ceilings by banks would be eliminated altogether.
1.37      The main instrument used to influence the local interest rates
is the discount rates of the Central Bank. The regular rate, known as the
basic rate, is currently 122. In addition, a preferential rate exists,
aimed at promoting exports and agricultural output, presently set at 9X.
An instruction of the Central Bank, issued every time there is an
adjustment of the discount rates, prescribes that the banks are allowed to
determine freely their lending rates "taking into account the rates of the
Central Bank" and that they will apply the new rates to all outstanding
credits. Thus a change in the discount rate affects directly all lending
rates, which are typically established by adding a margin to the
2/ The apportioning would be based on banks' actual performance in deposit
mobilization.



- 11 -
appropriate discount rate. Under the priposed project, the general
reference rate would switch from the administratively-determined discount
rate to a market-determined rate based on banks' bidding for liquidity.
1.38      The system of required reserves was established in March 1987.
It is currently an instrument of selective credit policy rather than
an instrument of monetary policy as indicated by the fact that credits
eligible for preferential rates (i.e., credits to exporters and to agri-
cultural enterprises), which amount to about 302 of the total outstandinag
credits of the banks, are deducted from the base used to compute the
reserve requirements.
1.39      Since July 1988, the required reserves are computed as 62 of the
average amount of credits outstanding during the previous quarter, after
deducting credits eligible for the preferential interest rate, plus 202 of
the daily average of the bank's deposits with the Central Bank during the
previous quarter. The combination of a ratio of 6S on outstanding credits
and a ratio of 202 on reserves implies that credits are subjected to an
effective reserve requirement ratio of 7.5X.
1.40      From a banking system liquidity management point of view,
the existing system of reserve requirements suffers from three design
weaknesses. First, the use of the system as a selective credit instrument
reduces the effectiveness of the reserve requirements in managing the
overall liquidity because of the different treatment of regular credits and
credits at preferential rates, in spite of the fact that these two types
of credits have the same effect on the m netary aggregates. Second, the
important lag between banking transactions subject to reserve requirements
taking place and the time the obligation to hold the reserves becomes
effective introduces some inertia which complicates the management of the
system. This effect is reinforced by the fact that required reserves held
in one quarter themselves generate an obligation to hold reserves during
the next quarter. As a result, credits made at a given time can influence
the reserve requirements during several consecutive quarters.  third, the
obligation to hold reserves on deposits with the Central Bank introduces an
additional distortion because it implies that the reserve requirements will
depend not only on the amount of credit outstanding and the overall amount
of liquidity within the banking system, but also on the distribution of
this liquidity among the banks when they use the money market organized by
the Central Bank.
1.41      The money market is composed of two segments.  On the informal
interbank market ("face to face market"), which emerged in March 1987,
transactions are made directly between banks, at a mutually agreed rate,
for maturities of up to ten days. On the money market managed by the
Central Bank, which exists since 1975, the CB absorbs the excess liquidity
of banks by accepting interest-yielding deposits for terms of up to 30 days
and provides needed liquidity through repurchase agreements of two to five
days (longer maturities are available but not used in practice). The rates
on this market are established by the CB with reference to the discount
rate and are presently, depending on the maturity, 8S to 92 for deposits
and 142 to 14.25S for the financing facility. The money market of the



- 12 -
Central Bank plays an important role. Because Treasury bills are not
presently negotiable on a secondary market, open market operations as a
tool to absorb excess liquidity are not an option. The acceptance of
interest yielding deposits by the Central Bank is in this context a
substitute for the sale of Treasury bills on the open market. Never-
theless, the two instruments are not identical as the rates on the Central
Bank money market are administratively controlled.
1.42      The only rates freely determined on the money market are the
rates on the face to face interbank market.  Arbitrage opportunities
between the two segments of the market (the face to face market and the
Central Bank market) imply however that these rates will fluctuate only
within the limits determined by the Central Bank market.  The nominal
spread between the highest rate on deposits and the borrowing rates on this
market is currently very large (5 points and 5.25 points, depending on the
maturities). The effective spread is even larger (6.8 points and 7.05
points) because the effective yield on deposits, taking into account the
reserve requirements to which deposits with the Central Bank are subjected,
is 7.22 (i.e., 92 / 1.25). 31 The effective yield on shorter term deposits
is still lower (6.4S, i.e., 82 / 1.25).
1.43      The advantage of a large spread on the Central Bank money market
is that it allows greater flexibility of the rates on the face to face
interbank market. However, the floor on this market implied by the
effective yields of 6.42 and 7.22 on deposits on the Central Bank money
market corresponds to a negative real rate of interest when exTected
inflation is on the order of 82 to 10.
1.44      Since 1987, individuals, private and public enterprises and the
Central Bank and, since September 1988, the banks themselves, can subscribe
to Treasury bills issued through an adjudication process. These bills are
not currently negotiable, although no legal prescription prohibits the
issuing of negotiable notes. To date, only six-month and twelve-month
bills have been issued.
1.45      The total amount of such Treasury bills adjudicated in 1988
amounted to FMG 9.7 billion (US$6.5 million). The current limit of
adjudication is FMG 1.5 billion per month. During 1988, the Central Bank
absorbed 40S of the twelve-month bills, but the six-month bills have been
subscribed mainly by the public (582) and by the banks (302), with the
Central Bank only absorbing the remaining 122. Ever since the banks have
been authorized to participate in the adjudication, the Central Bank has
not had to purchase any six-month bills and the adjudication limits have
frequently been exceeded.
3/ The 1.25 factor arises from the reserve requirement of 202 on deposits
at the Central Bank.



- 13 -
1.46      The yield on these bills has often reached up to 22.8Z for the
six-month bills subscribed by the non-bank public, but fluctuated between
15.5Z and 19.1Z for the twelve-month bills. These yields appear to be
high, particularly when considering the low adjudication limits, the
liquidity of the banks and the very low yields available on investments on
the Central Bank money market. They can be explained by the novelty of the
instrument and, therefore, the uncertainty concerning the functioning of
the market (the minutes of the adjudication meetings are not published,
in spite of the existence of relevant regulations prescribing such publica-
tion); and also by the lack of liquidity of the instrument, which is not
negotiable.
1.47      The relatively modest stock of Treasury bills outstanding and
the current adjudication limits suggest that these Treasury bills should
not presently be considered as a significant tool for monetary policy.
However, if the volume issued were increased and if the bills were made
negotiable, the market for Treasury bills could make an important
contribution to the development of the financial sector, because:
-    Open market operations would become possible, enabling the
Central Bank to influence the banks' liquidity and the interest
rates on the money market through an indirect, market-based
mechanism;
-    a flexible instrument to manage their secondary liquidity would
become available to the banks; and
-    a step forward would have been taken to stimulate the development
of money and capital markets in a way which could effectively
provide competition to the banking sector in the field of
mobilizing financial savings.
1.48      A final instrument of monetary policy available to the Central
Bank is the requirement for a prior authorization for all bank credits
which would bring the level of indebtedness of any borrower to the banking
system beyond the threshold (if not already reached) of FMG 1.0 billion
(US$633,000). This requirement has the perverse consequence of diluting
the full responsibility of banks in the matter of credit decisions (which
are in any case subject to the existing prudential rules), in addition to
slowing the processing of loan applications. It does not appear to offer
advantages outweighing these costs. As a first step to correct this
distortion, the CB has already increased the threshold of its prior
authorization prerogative from FMG 100 million to FMG 1.0 billion.
Subsequently, and as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit,
the CB wotld raise the threshold to FMG 5 billion (US$3.2 million).
Finally, and as a condition of disbursement of the second portion of the
proposed Credit, the CB would abolish the prior authorization requirement.



- 14 -
Interest Rates, Resource Mobilization, and Efficiency in the Bankin8 System
1.49      From 1974 to 1985 interest rates were mostly controlled by the
Central Bank, and remained virtually unchanged. In April 1985, the interest
rate structure was simplified and liberal.zed in accordance with IMF
recommendations. Since then the Central Bank only sets its two rediscount
rates (normal and preferential), and the minimum rate f r deposits from
individuals of 6 to 12 months. Theae rates have been adjusted several
times since 1985, the current levels being 122 for the normal rediscount,
9Z for the preferential rediscount (which applies to credits granted to
export-oriented activities and agricultural activities for food self-
sufficiency), and 14Z for the minimum rate for the above mentioned
deposits.
1.50      The structure of interest rates which has evolved from this
system presents an anomaly which is likely to undermine the efficiency of
resource allocation through the banking system: Because the cost of certain
types of medium and long-term credits eligible for preferential rates is
now lower than the above mentioned mandatory minimum interest rate on
certain term deposits, an arbitrage opportunity exists which could be
diverting credit from productive uses. This anomaly, caused by the low
preferential discount rate, would be eliminated through the new structure
of CB refinancing rates proposed under the project (para. 3.07).
1.51      In 1987, the average remuneration of bank deposits was 7.62 with
sight deposits yielding about 2? p.a. and time deposits about 18?. In
1988, the yield on time deposits with a minimum maturity of six months
ranged from 11.5? for enterprises to 15? for individuals, compared to an
inflation rate of about 132 in 1988. The yield on time deposits is
therefore marginally positive in real terms except for shorter maturity
deposits, particularly for deposits below 3 months. These yields compare
with a market-determined yield of about 172 on Treasury bills with
maturities of 6 months to one year. Overall, the remuneration of bank
deposits appears to be adequate with some limited scope for improved
resource mobilization through the introduction of household savings
schemes.
1.52      To the extent efficiency in banks can be measured in terws
of gross spreads, the banking system of Madagascar can be considered
inefficient. Gross bank spreads expressed as a percentage of average
total assets are large, reaching 8.2Z in 1987. This spread reflected
average gross earnings of 13.52 of assets compared to financial expenses
of 5.32. As indicated above, interest payments to depositors reached 7.6?
of average total deposits in 1987. Similarly, interest income was 16.32
of average loans. It could therefore be argued that the spread between
interest earnings from the average borrower and interest payments to the
average depositor was 8.72, a high level that reflects in part the
oligopolistic structure of the market.
1.53      In practice, it is difficult to define the 6average* borrower
of Malagasy banks. There are really two classes of borrowers. Those
in categories C and D which are generally unable to service their loans,



- 15 -
and those in categories A (problem free) and B (slight problems) which
effectively account for all interest earnings recorded in the books of
the banks. Therefore, banks earn little or zero on C and D loans while
the average yield on A and B loans was about 192 in 1987.  On this basis,
the interest differential between the yield on performing loans and the
average remuneration of depositors was about 11.4Z.
1.54      The large operating margin of Malagasy banks is necessary for
them to cover their relatively large administrative expenses (3.1Z of
assets) and loan loss provisions for C and D credits (4.4Z of assets).
The administrative expenses of banks are due to an excessive number of
employees relative to the volume of operations. The restructuring of the
banks should involve a significant reduction in the number of staff in
parallel wJ2h improvements in average remunerations.  Cost savings are
therefore likely to be limited. A more significant reduction in bank
margins would result from a lower level of annual provisions made possible
by portfolio restructuring including write- offs of non performing C and D
credits.
1.55      Provided the necessary write-offs are completed as agreed, it
would be possible for the banks to remain profitable and to achieve a
progretsive reduction in bank margins and, consequently, a reduction in
lending rates from about 19Z at present to less than 13Z. This would leave
unchanged the current level of deposit rates.
C. Private Enterprise Sector
1.56      Past Performance and Policy.  Since 1985, Madagascar's
macroeconomic and industrial policy that affects the private sector has
been completely re-oriented in an attempt to reverse the previous system
of planned economic management adopted in the late 1970s. Recognizing its
own limitations in its ability to efficiently allocate resources, the
Government has sought to increase its reliance on the market system to
promote the private sector. This shift in policies has profoundly altered
the economic environment and incentive structure in which the Malagasy
private sector operates. Therefore, the sector is today at crossroads,
as it faces the challenge of restructuring in order to survive in the new
free market system.
Industry
1.57      Industrial production was weak in the early 1970s, with little or
no growth. It picked up by 1974, so that the implementation of the inward-
looking strategy coincided with an optimistic environment in the industrial
sector. The next burst in industrial activity peaked in 1979 with the
introduction of the ambitious public investment program. This all-out
investment program primarily fueled import demand, but also had an effect
on domestic demand in a subordinate fashion. Although the industrial
sector maintained its production for a few years after the beginning of the
inward-looking period, the downturn was obvious by 1980, and unmitigated
until 1982, by which time industrial production had dropped by 25? from its
1979 peak. In this later period, the effects of the import-substituting



- 16 -
policies had been cexpounded by the effects of the restrictive stabili-
zation measures taken to sustain that import-substituting policy. Among
the sub-sectors hardest hit were food and beverages, chemicals and
construction materials.
1.58      Today, there are 360 manufacturing enterprises in Madagascar
(excluding artisanal enterprises), more than half of which are located in
Antananarivo. They employ about 100,000 people or 2.65 of the economically
active population. As c result of the nationaLization mentioned above a
large part of industry came under Government control by the late 1970s.
The State holds shares in over 100 enterprises and controls the majority in
over 155. Virtually all large industrial enterprises are Government-owned.
Those in which the Government holds a majority account for an estimated 652
of sectoral output and a similar share of employment. It should be noted,
however, that substantial ownership changes are to occur under PSAC in the
form of divestiture.
1.59      The industrial sector i.s dominated by the activities of two
sub-sectors: food processing, textiles, and garmentlknitwear. They account
for about 751 of employment, output and value added. The food processing
industries are dominated by the activities of sugar production, fish
canning and the brewery, with sugar production alone accounting for about
502 of the value of output in this sub-sector. The two major state-owned
sugar companies (SIRAMA, SNCBE) were rehabilitated in 1985 together with
a French partnership (Sucrerie de Bourbon). The textile industry is also
dominated by two large enterprises (COTONA, SOTEMA) in which the Government
is principal shareholder, but which are managed by foreign private
companies with IFC's involvement. They recently underwent extensive
rehabilitation and extension and employ about 7,000 persons which
represents 50t of total sub-sector employment. However, adjustment
problems loom large, particularly for SOTEMA, in view of the increased
competition from abroad and the company might be left with no other option
but closure. In addition to textiles and food processing other--somewhat
less important--subsectors comprise household chemicals, construction
materials, petroleum refining and some intermediate goods such as metal
and paper products.
Agriculture
1.60      Employing four-fifths of the population and accounting for more
than 802 of export earnings, agriculture is the most important contributor
to the national economy. Due to its unique ecological diversity, most
tropical and temperate climate crops can be foiud in Madagascar. Less than
5? of the land area is cultivated, of which more than half is under rice,
which accounts for 302 of agricultural production value. Recent deregu-
lation of rice markets have helped increase production since the mid-1980s.
1.61      In value terms, the beef cattle herd provides the second most
important product (16? of agricultural GDP). Industrial crops, notably
sugar and cotton, contribute about 7?. A small group of export crops
(coffee, cloves, vanilla, and pepper) accounts for about 15? of production
value, but some 75? of export earnings, and coffee alone for about 50?.



- 17 -
A combination of low producer prices, over-taxation by Government, a
monopolistic parastatal marketing system, and a serious decline in quality
caused a reduction of production with imports on the increase, mostly in
the form of food aid. However, recent liberalization of markets has
encouraged a revival of production, particularly of coconut palm and of
artisanally processed groundnuts. Specific supply responses are also
noticeable for coffee and green pepper, where for the first time in a
decade land use has increased and formerly abandoned agro processing units
have been revitalized, respectively.
Services
1.62      With the general services sector still being at an infsnt stage,
considerable potential emerges in tourism for which Madagascar's unique
environment, culture and coastlines constitute strong assets. The tourist
entry of 30,000 in 1988 has the potential to increase tenfold during the
next decade provided the proper framework for private investment is
adopted.
1.63      Constraints and Development Potential.  Obstacles to private
enterprise efficiency were caused in the past by major constraints such as
an overly regulated business and investment climate w'ich was coupled with
the previously mentioned severe economic crisis, poor Government policy
coordination and the unavailability of foreign exchange. In addition,
obsolete equipment, lack of spare parts and difficult access to financial
resources hampered the efficiency of the private sector.
1.64      Recent macro, sectoral and financial studies, supported by
analyses at the enterprise level suggest that there is significant develop-
ment potential of enterprises in the productive sectors in a more liberal
and deregulated policy environment. Companies are already adjusting and
responding to the changed environment. Government's stabilization and
growth policies including deregulatory measures, removal of price controls,
and provision of incentives in the framework of the Investment Code have
already started to change and improve the previously poor investment
climate, and an initial supply response is taking place. However, to
realize fully the projected supply response in terms of increased output,
exports and employment, it would be necessary to improve and/or expand
production capacities through investment in machinery replacement and
modern expansion equipment. The proposed project would provide needed
term financing for these investment activities in all productive sectors in
support of the Government's growth policies. At the same time, the project
would contribute to accompanying adjustments in financial sector policies
in the form of further deregulation.
1.65      Concerning reform measures for the private sector, a thorough
reorganization of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCI) is needed
to reestablish it as a truly representative body of the private sector.
A consensus approach by the various private sector groups has been prepared
in the forv. of draft revised statutes. The issuance by Government of new
statutes, reinvigorating the CCI and allowing it to become a private sector



* 18 -
representative entity, is envisaged under the project. Assistance in the
restructuring and strengthening of CCI would be provided by the proposed
Credit.
1.66      To further support the private sector development potential,
a new and improved Investment Code and a law on the establishment of
industrial free zones were promulgated in late 1989. The new Investment
Code envisages the creation of a one-ztop Investment Promotion Center.
This initiative would be supported by the technical assistance component
of the project. Finally, to improve public access to general economic
information, needed for analysis and decision-making of private sector
investors, the Central Bank is to start again the publication of a monthly
statistical bulletin.
1.67      Small and Medium Enterprises.  A special development potential
of SMEs has been detected by virtually all relevant parties involved,
including the Government, major donors and various local interest groups.
Recognizing this potential and the fact that SMEs could play a major part
in the economic recovery, also for social reasons, existing SME entre-
preneurial talent is to receive special attention under the project through
several of the technical assistance subcomponents.
1.68      Madagascar's SME sector (defined as companies with a varying
range of asset size depending on the definition of each technical Ministry
but not exceeding the equivalent of US$500,000) is still relatively little
developed with about 300 SMEs operating in the manufacturing sector, some
250 small contractors in the construction industry and about 180 SMEs in
tourism including hotels, car rental, tour operators and travel agencies.
SME activities in other (sub-) sectors such as mining, cransport, garages
and trade are less documented but equally important, especially in the
informal sector. SMEs cover a wide variety of activities in the industrial
manufacturing field including food industry, textile, leather, carpentry,
furniture, household chemicals, metal working, glass making and
construction materials, bakeries and printing shops. Craftsmanship is
widespread, but so far has rarely led to transformation into small or even
medium-scale enterprises. Tb' number of SHEs in manufacturing industry
(and most likely in the economy as a whole) declined over the last decade
primarily because of adverse economic conditions, leading to increased
closures of existing SMEs and only few creations or extensions of existing
ones. Partial industrial survey data showed that about 25Z of SMEs were
established before Independence (1960) and the average life of industrial
SMEs in 1987 was more than 20 years.
1.69      A lack of financial and support services combiv.'d with weak
institutions and the Government's cferemphasis on large public enterprises
in its investment, credit, foreign exchange allocation and other economic
policies resulted in an unsatisfactory performance of the small and medium-
sized private enterprises. Limited information indicates that production
techniques are generally outdated, and SME operators frequently lack
technical, managerial and financial know-how. About two-thirds of the SMEs
operate at significantly reduced levels of installed capacity. Survey data



- 19 -
also suggests a low level of integration (horizontal as well as vertical)
between SMEs, little production of intermediate goods and virtually no
subcontracting between large firms and SMEs.
1.70      Government SME Policies.  During the past two to three years,
the Government began to change its SME strategy in the wake of the
liberalization, restructuring, and economic adjustment measures. A new
Investment Code was promulgated with a special SME regime and the Govern-
ment started to establish SME promotion and information services in all
technical ministries as well as in the three public banks. In addition,
a promotion unit was created in the then Ministry of Finance and Economy
to provide coordination in the Government's information activities aimed
at potential SHE promoters. With the ministerial restructuring that
occurred in recent months, the Economy function of that Ministry was
transferred to the newly created Ministry of Economy and Plan (HEP).
Consequently, the SME coordination unit has recently been reestablished
at the MEP. The Government is now more aware of the need to initiate
supporting actions to major sectoral and macroeconomic restructuring
efforts underway and, more specifically, of the socio-economic development
potential of SMEs, in particular for employment creation.
Technical Assistance to SHEs
1.71      Technical competence to assist SMEs is largely available locally
e.g. through managerial and technical training institutions including the
National Institute for Commercial Science and Accounting (INSCAE), the
Professionals' Training Center (CFC), University Departments, as well as
through the banks and approximately 50 local consulting firms, some of
which have built up considerable sector-specific know-how.  However,
existing SMEs and potential SME promoters make only sporadic use of the
available expertise, basically because of the cost. The private sector
and to a lesser extent the Government are aware that these local resources
merit to be activated and focused more closely on SME promotion.
1.72      Assistance to SMEs is being provided by a number of limited
programs subsidized by donor agencies. Program objectives so far have been
modest relative to needs. UNIDO, through a public consulting firm, the
Soci6te d'Etudes et de Realisation pour le Developpement Industriel (SERDI)
is extending technical assistance services annually to 12-15 SHEs in the
industrial sector in the Antananarivo area. ILO is successfully concluding
a pilot project in entrepreneurship development that started end-1987 by
selecting 30 among 250 would-be SME promoters and helped them to develop
their own feasibility studies; four of these projects have already reached
the implementation stage and 15 others, all in or around the capital, stand
a good chance of obtaining finance and subsequently of being launched by
end-1989. ILO, backed up by UNDP, plans to capitalize on the experience by
extending the program initially to four regional centers by the end of 1989
to create 100 new viable SMEs within three years (1989-1992) with a total
technical assistance cost of about US$700,000.



- 20 -
1.73      The main domestic initiative is APEs "Association pour la
Promotion de l'Entreprise Malgache), a 1987 activity started by the
country's key employers' organization GEM (Groupement des Entreprises
de Madagascar) which rallied 30 industrialists, consulting firms, banks
and insurance company to provide back-up advice, seed capital and credit
guarantees to young entrepreneurs; six SMEs have received assistance by
APEM in 1988 absorbing about US$20,000 in cofinancing or in guarantees;
funds from outside donors in the order of US$200,000 encourage APEM to
provide assistance to an increased number of new SMEs.
1.74      Training in accounting and in management techniques is partly
provided by the Institut National des Sciences Comptables et de
l'Administration de l'Entreprise (INSCAE), created in 1981 based on
the Bank's initiative, and since backed by France (Mission d'Aide et
de Cooperation) as well as by Canada (Canadian International Developm.nt
Agency - CIDA). INSCAE enjoys a good reputation and its graduates seem
to meet eager demand from enterprises, including from SHEs, throughout
the country. (Output: p.a. up to 75 accountants, 3-year program; about
10 chartered accountants, 4-year program; and about 25 graduates in
management science, 2 years MBA-type program, first graduation in June
1990). INSCAE's evening program in accounting and in a small number of
managerial topics meets strong demand, including from managers and key
staff of SHEs and would-be SHE promoters. INSCAE also gives seminars for
accountants and managers in the area of computer science, accounting and
management but even though much appreciated by the business and financial
comunnity, these programs do not meet the demand. The Centre de Formation
des Cadres (CFC), a financially autonomous training institution founded in
1981 and established in Antsirabe and in Antananarivo, is providing good
quality in-service training seminars mostly to managerial staff of larger
enterprises and organizations, but occasionally also to SME participants.
In 1987, 41 such seminars were organized in most regional centers on a
large variety of management tecbniques attracting close to 500 partici-
pants. Increasingly, CFC also provides in-company management consulting
services, especially for banks (8 seminars for BTM in 1987).
1.75      On the private sector side, new initiatives from professional
associations have taken place in recent years. The Jeune Chambre
Economique de Madagascar (JCEM) is active in SME promotion since 1987 and
started the publication of a monthly economic and technical review on SME
issues. JCEM organized four symposia on SME creation in 1988, attracting
as many as 600 participants in major towns and allowing a rare dialogue
between owners of SHEs, potential SHE promoters, bankers and representa-
tives of technical ministries and local authorities. A practical guide
prepared by JCEH on how to create an SME in Madagascar (passport PME),
printed in 10,000 copies, enjoys strong demand among would-be SHE
entrepreneurs. JCEH has also started an in-plant visits and practical
training program abroad and has already sent 12 professionals including
some potential SHE promoters for 3-month visits to Switzerland and France
in 1988. Finally, the new association of consultancy firms, founded in
January 1989, intends to help focussing the services of its two dozen
members closer to SHE needs.



- 21 -
PART II. BANK GROUP LENDING STRATEGY
2.01      IDA's strategy is to support the Government's efforts to
rehabilitate and restructure the economy bys (i) promoting policies and
programs aimed at reforming incentive structures, setting a more favorable
climate for private sector initiative and investments, and providing
financial and other support for appropriate policy programs; (ii)
supporting se^toral strategies aimed at rehabilitating productive
infrastructure and establishing conditions for long-term growth, and
providing financial and technical .ssistance for these programs; (iii)
strengthening the institutions responsible for sectoral policy formulation
and management; and (iv) helping Madagascar to mobilize and to make
effective use of donor and creditor financial, technical and debt relief
support.
2.02      The proposed Credit would be a departure from previous interven-
tions for term financing in Madagaicar. Instead of allocating term
financing to separate sectors through--supposedly--specialized financial
institutions 4/ at different terms and conditions, the APEX approach would
consolidate IDA's term lending in Madagascar for all productive sectors.
It would further build on and complement the series of adjustment
operations in recent history.
2.03      The proposed project forms an integral part of IDA's country
strategy to support the Government's accelerated adjustment process and
strategy for sustained growth, increased private sector involvement and
improved employment generation. The Government considers IDA's lavolvement
essential in defining and implementing an effective and comprehensive
financing and promotion plan for the productive sectors coupled with
further financial sector adjustments with the possibility of mobilizing
additional resources from other donors. A further stage of the program
of development of the financial sector would iuclude: measures to improve
the mobilization of small savings; broadening of the services offered by
financial institutions including export financing, leasing and housing
financing; and introduction of new savings and lending instruments and
markets, including, inter alia, capital markets.
4/ As was done previously, using BNI for industry and BTM for agriculture
lending (para 1.17 and 3.03).



- 22 -
III.  THE  PROJECT
Project Objectives and Justification
3.01      The principal objectives of the proposed operation are tot
(i) complement the Government's on-going restructuring efforts
of the economy through provision of funds for investments and
reconstitution of permanent working capital in industry and
all other productive sectors. AddAtional emphasis is given
to support SMEs through specific technical assistance;
(ii)  help, in coordination with DMF and PSAC conditionality, to
improve the efficiency of the financial sector. This includes
expanded (term) resource mobilization and improved allocation,
further interest rate liberalization, and deepening the
competition in the financial sector through elimination of
the Central Bank's prior credit authorization prerogative,
improvements in the system of credit ceilings and reserve
requirements, as well as adjusting other monetary policy
instruments;
(iii)  strengthen institi.ions operating in the financial and SME
support sector (in particular their appraisal/supervision
capabilities); and
(iv)  generate new employment opportunities.
3.02      The rationale for IDA's involvement in the project is to help
maintain the momentum of the reform process in the financial sector,
especially now that the first new private commercial bank has just opened.
The Credit would furthermore act as a catalyst, paving the way for more
active private sector initiatives not only in the financial sector -
through increased private capital participation - but likewise in the
industrial and other productive sectors - through helping support proposed
reforms in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and providing technical
assiftance for facilitating the development of private sector activities.
Lessons Learned from Previous Proiects
3.03      While this would be IDA's first APEX-type credit to Madagascar,
several previous projects included lines of credit available to specific
banks. Two of those credit lines were channelled through BNI, the first
of which as a traditional DFC loan (Credit 977-MAG of 1980), the second
one in the form of a DFC component as part of a hybrid industrial sector
adjustment operation (Credit 1541-MAG of 1985). These two lines of credit
of US$5.0 million each were chiefly for industrial investment purposes,
including SSEs. Similarly, two other DFC loans were made, to BTM for
agricultural lending (US$5.0 million for Credit 1064-MAG of 1980 and
US$9.0 million for Credit 1804-MAG of 1987).



- 23 -
3.04      A project completion report has been prepared for the first of
each of these credit lines (PCR No. 7179 for Credit 977-MAG dated April
1988 and PCR No.7768 for Credit 1064-MAG dated May 1989), while each of the
follow-up operations is either still in the commitment phase (BTM) or just
recently closed (BNI, March 1989). One of the lessons learned from these
credits is for IDA to avoid separate treatment of Malagasy banks through
different onlending terms and conditions. One of the main findings
suggested that BNI's medium and large-sized borrowers who had to assume
the foreign exchange risk were virtually bankrupt following major currency
depreciations while at the same time price controls were in place. The now
proposed unified treatment of banks and their customers across sectors will
promote a generalized set of financial sector characteristics (interest
rates, exchange risk assumptions, capitalization of disbursements, etc.),
that will ensure that investments in all productive sectors will be treated
alike. Also, the degree of exclusivity enjoyed by BNi and BTH under
previous arrangements will disappear and a higher degree of customer
service orientation will result, specifically with the advent of the
fourth commercial bank, which is entirely private-owned.
Prolect Description
3.05      The project would involve an IDA Credit to the Government of
Madagascar of US$48.0 million (SDR 36.4 million). The proposed Credit
would have the following componentss
(i)  an investment component of US$45.0 million equivalent, divided
into two portions, to finance (through all eligible banking
institutions) projects in productive sectors promoted by majority
private enterprises.  This investment component would be
coordinated and monitored by a Project Bureau in the Central
Bank;
(ii)  a multi-facetted technical assistance component of US$3.0 million
equivalent to help support activities that would foster small and
medium enterprise development, staff training for participating
bank&, strengthening the Central Bank supervision and monetary
management capacities, support to the revitalization of the
private m,ning sector and, last but not least, assistance in
credit implementation-related activities.  The overall adminis-
tration of the TA component would be handled by the SME
Assistance Unit (AU) within the Ministry of Economy and Plan; and
(iii)  in addition to the above two components, policy conditions would
"'e put in place, primarily concerning the financial sector, but
bLso related to other activities and decisions supporting private
enterprise sector develonment.
Sector Policy Measures and Conditions
3.06      Although the proposed Credit is an investment operation, a large
number of policy issues has been discussed with the Government during
project preparation, and adoption of the proposed policy reforms is



- 24 -
considered essential to provide not only a smooth project implementation
but alao an improved environment in the financial and private enterprise
subsectors.
3.07      In the area of financial sector policies, four proposed measures
relate to monetary policy and consist of modifying authorization require-
ments, money market and rediscount systems, credit ceilings and reserve
requirements. These conditions have been discussed with Government in
full consultation with the IMF, including a technical assistance mission
of the IMF Central Banking Department (CBD) that took place in August 1989.
As part of the liberalization process, the CB has already increased the
threshold of its prior credit authorization prerogative from 1HG 100
million to 1MG 1.0 billion. As a further step, the threshold would be
raised to FHG 5.0 billion by Credit effectiveness. However, while these
are encouraging intermediate steps, the prior authorization requirement
would be fully abolished by the time of disbursement under the second
portion, for reasons discussed in para. 1.48. The money market and
rediscount mechanism would be reorganized in accordance with the
recommendations of the CBD mission. These include, inter alia, the
introduction of a two-way Appel d'Offres (AO) 5/ as a technique to inject
liquidity into--or absorb from--the banking system; the use of the AO rate
(the weighted average of the bid rates accepted) as the reference rate of
the interest rate structure; the setting by the CB of an intervention band
to limit excessive day-to-day fluctuations of the interbank rate; the
overhaul of the rediscount facility, to change its character from a regular
source of funds to the banking sector, to a safety valve for liquidity
management to be used under special circumstances to rediscount only
Treasury bills; and the introduction of a short-term lender-of-last-resort
facility, at a penalty rate. The reorganization of the money market and
the rediscount facility is expected to be carried out by October 15, 1990.
A covenant to that effect has been included in the legal agreements.
3.08      Credit subceilings for individual banks would also be eliminated
under the project (para. 1.36) in a two-step process. Firstly, and as a
condition of effectiveness, the current system of individual ceilings by
banks would be modified so as to stimulate bank competition. Secondly,
with the instauration of new monetary control mechanisms, individual credit
ceilings would be suppressed by the time of disbursement under the second
portion. Finally, the reserve requirement system would be modified so as
to eliminate the perverse effects of the current system described in paras.
1.38 to 1.40. This would be achieved through the establishment of required
reserves on a monthly (or shorter period) basis, computed as a percentage
of the banks' demand and time deposits. The implementaxtion of this new
system of reserve requirements would constitute a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
5/  The 'Appel d'Offres  (auction sales) is an invitation for banks to bid
either on temporary rediscount or on deposits with the CB.



- 25 -
3.09      Other financial sector related policy adjustments would include
(i) that supervision staff of the Central Bank no longer serve on the
boards of banks that they are supervising (para. 1.18) (disbursement under
the second portion); (ii) that the results of the monthly Treasury bill
auction be published, as the law stipulates (para. 1.46) (effectiveness);
and, finally (iii) that the remaining inconsistency in the new banking law
(para. 1.32) be removed through an implementing instruction to be issued
by Credit effectiveness.
3.10      Private Sector related conditions would consist of (i) providing
access to general economic information and indicators to all economic
agents by resuming the regular publication of the Central Bank statistical
bulletin (para. 1.66), by effectiveness; (ii) reinvigorating the Chamber
of Commerce and Industry to become a truly representative body of the
private sector and no longer continue as a public institution employing
civil servants (para. 1.65), as a condition of disbursement under the
second portion; and (iii) establishing the envisaged one-stop Investment
Promotion Center with responsibilities and operating procedures
satisfactory to IDA (paras. 1.66 and 3.35) as a condition of disbursement
of the financial assistance allocated for this Center.
APEX Credit Component
3.11      Size of the Component.  The demand assessment of the principal
participating institutions supports the envisaged size of the credit
component of US$45.0 million. Commitments under the four previous credit
lines support the above proposed size and reflect the banks' projections,
based on potential project pipelines analyzed during the appraisal process.
No preestablished allocations among participating intermediaries would be
set.
3.12      Institutional Arrangements.  The credit component would be made
available under an apex arrangement to all sound existing and future
financial institutions accredited by the Central Bank. Funds under the
Credit would be channelled through the Central Bank to the commercial
banks, which would in turn grant loans to the final beneficiaries of the
project. The APEX arrangement would be the most suitable for financing
numerous majority private projects in the productive sectors, due to the
number of financial institutions that would participate and, as their
number increases, would provide entrepreneurs better accessibility to
term credit on a more competitive basis.
3.13      The Central Bank, through a Project Bureau (PB) (paras. 3.39-
3.42) located in the Credit Department, would act as the APEX institution
and administer the line of credit for the Government. The signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the Central Bank
defining the functions and responsibilities of the latter, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.



- 26 -
3.14      Eligible Intermediaries.  Any financial intermediary accredited
by the Central Bank which complies with the laws and regulations governing
banking operations in Madagascar, and has its financial statoments audited,
with no qualifications, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, would be
eligible for participating under the line of credit.
3.15      Currently, one of the three state commercial banks (BNI) does
not satisfy the eligibility criteria described in the previous paragraph.
However, once the corporate restructuring of this bank (para. 1.34) takes
place, all existing banks are expected to fulfill the eligibility criteria.
An eligible financial intermediary would be able to participate in the
project provided it has entered into a participating agreement with the
CB that is satisfactory to IDA. This agreement would, inter alia, specify
that the participants should:
(i) designate qualified staff to manage the credits financed by
the project;
(ii)  perform satisfactory subproject zppraisals and submit required
appraisal reports to the PB;
(iii) ensure that resources are used by the final borrowers for the
purpose intended and that adequate procurement procedures are
followed;
(iv)  supervise subprojects according to required schedule and provide
the PB with periodical reports on the status of subprojects;
(v) ensure that national environmental regulations and IDA
environmental guidelines are followed for subprojects;
(vi)  help identify the technical assistance needs of small and medium
enterprises;
(vii) adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans; and
(viii) provide the PB and IDA with such information as they would
reasonably request.
3.16      A draft participating agreement has already been discussed with
the interested parties and is available in the Project File. All of the
banks have stated that they would be prepared and able to comply with these
conditions as needed. Receipt by IDA of a satisfactory signed agreement
between the CB and a participating intermediary would be a condition of
disbursement to such intermediary.
3.17      Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects.  The line of credit would
finance fixed assets and permanent working capital for private and mixed
enterpriseF (the latter being defined as those with at least 51Z private
capital). All productive activities, including industry, mining,
agriculture, as well as transport, trade, public works, tourism and all
other services which contribute to the economic development of Madagascar



- 27 -
would be eligible for financing. The only exception would be the financing
of land and housing construction, which would not be eligible. The line of
credit would finance (i) fixed assets and associated working capital for
new operations, extensions and rehabilitations; and (ii) free-standing
permanent working capital for viable existing enterprises in the productive
sectors. However, given that the major objective of the project is to
finance investment in fixed assets, the total amount of subloans financing
free-standing permanent working capital would be limited to a maximum of
252 of the credit component (US$11.3 million out of US$45.0 million). Both
foreign and local costs would be eligible for financing, with the latter
being limited to a maximum of 80Z of financing by the IDA line of credit.
Identical disbursement procedures would be used for investment and free-
standing working capital subprojects.
3.18      The enterprises and their subprojects to be financed would have
to meet the following conditions:
(i) they would be required to demonstrate financial and economic
viability (based on indicators such as foreign exchange savings,
job creation, investment cost per job, etc.); subloans of over
US$100,000 would be required to have an expected financial rate
of return of at least 12 percent on total subproject investment;
subprojects with a cost of over US$500,000 would be required to
have an expected economic rate of return of at least 12 percent
on total subprject investment;
(ii)  the projected debt servicing capacity should be no less than
1.3 over the life of the subproject and the debt to equity ratio
should be no more than 3sl, with the ratios calculated on the
basis of the enterprise's total debts, inclusive of those to
be incurred under the subprojact;
(iii) subloans could represent up to 80 percent of the total cost for
extension/modernization subprojects, and up to 70 percent for
new subprojects. Promoters would be required to finance a
minimum of 30 percent of subproject cost in the latter case; and
(iv)  the amount of each subloan would be limited to a maximum of
US$4.5 million, to avoid that any one company would absorb more
than 10? of the total credit amount. No limitation would be
imposed on the size of the enterprise or the size of the
subproject.
3.19      Terms and Conditions of Financing.  The IDA Credit would be
made to the Government, which would relend the credit component (US$45.0
million) in local currency through the Central Bank to financial institu-
tions which in turn would relend it to beneficiary enterprises. The
onlending rate to financial intermediaries would be the CB regular
reference rate (at present the regular discount rate of 122), and this
onlending rate would be reviewed annually (para. 3.24). However, as
discussed in para. 3.07, a new money market and rediscount interest rate
structure would be .A place during late 1990.  In accordance with this



- 28 -
structure, the new reference rate for banks' credits will be the AO (Appel
d'Offres) rate, which will result of the monthly bidding of banks in the
money market. When this new structure and reference rate operates at
the Government and IDA's satisfaction, the AO rate would be used as the
onlending rate to financial intermediaries. With real interest rates in
local currency roughly equivalent to real interest rates in international
markets, and as the exchange rate and interest rate policies are broadly
based on a market-clearance approach, the domestic interest rates would
adequately reflect the expectations of devaluation. Provisions in the
legal agreements in the form of a covenant will ensure that disbursements
would be contingent on the continuation of such policies, and on the future
use of the AO rate as onlending rate for the project. In the absence of
forward currency markets that would allow final borrowers to hedge currency
risks, the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk in exchange for
an implicit fee equal to the difference between the CB reference rate
(currently the 12Z regular discount rate) and the IDA conditions. This
spread (currently 11.25Z p.a.) is expected to more than adequately cover
the foreign exchange risk.
3.20      The Government would pass on the funds to the Central Bank at
the onlending rate to financial intermediaries (as defined above) minus an
administrative fee of one half of one percent p.a. that would accrue to the
Central Bank to compensate it for costs incurred and services rendered for
the adequate operation of the project through its Project Bureau.
3.21      The Central Bank would receive the funds for a period of 30 years
starting on the date of Credit effectiveness. The Central Bank would
return the funds to the Government in twenty equal annual installments
starting ten years after the effectiveness date of the Credit, so as to
allow recycling back of the funds, in the same terms, to financial
intermediaries. The Central Bank would relend these funds, through a
refinancing mechanism, to the participating intermediaries.
3.22      Funds onlent under the credit component to participating inter-
mediaries would have the same maturities as the individual subloans to
final beneficiaries. Subloans to beneficiaries would range from a minimum
of two to a maximum of twelve years, inclusive of grace periods of up to
three years.
3.23      The participating intermediaries would be free to set their own
rates to beneficiaries subject to a temporary maximum spread agreed between
IDA and the Central Bank. Under the present interest rate structure the
maximum spread would be 7 percentage points. It is expected that, prior
to the disbursement under the second portiov, participating intermediaries
would no longer be subject to the ceiling on the spread they can charge on
loans refinanced under the line of credit.
3.24      The Central Bank onlending rates, as well as the maximum spreads
chargeable by participating intermediaries, would be reviewed at least
every 12 months, and modified by agreement between IDA and the Government



- 29 -
as necessary to ensure that they continue to adequately compensate the
Government for assuming the foreign exchange risk and reflect the cost
of resources for financial intermediaries and subborrowers.
3.25      Subloan Processing and Administration.  Subloan processing under
the project would be coordinated and centralized by the PB, which would
serve as the principal link between IDA, the participating intermediaries
and the beneficiaries for the project's investment component (para. 3.39 to
3.42).
3.26      Subprojects would be prepared by the beneficiaries, with, if
needed, assistance from the SME Assistance Unit of the Ministry of Economy
and Plan (AU), and presented to the intermediaries. The financial
intermediaries would review the subprojects in accordance with their own
loan analysis procedures and internal operating requirements which, except
for BNI, have been found satisfactory by the appraisal mission. (BNI's
procedures are expected to be substantially overhauled following its
restructuring and privatization). Thereafter, intermediaries would prepare
a simple appraisal report for presenting the subproject to refinancing
under the line of credit. This appraisal report, which would be required
for both investment and free-standing working capital subprojects, would be
in the standard format prescribed by the PB, which would vary in depth and
sophistication depending on the size of subprojects. The report would
cover all relevant information about the enterprise and the proposed
investment. The PB would review the appraisal reports to verify that all
eligibility conditions (including, inter alia, those specified in para.
3.18) are adequately met. This review would be carried out in the form of
a check-list approach for subloans of less than US$100,000 equivalent, and
through a more in-depth review for subloans above US$100,000 equivalent.
The PB would have only an eligibility check review capacity for sub-loans,
for which credit risk would be analyzed and borne by the participating
financial intermediaries, which would have the primary responsibility for
sub-loan appraisal. If the subproject is eligible for financing, the PB
will authorize the intermediary to present the loan documents for
rediscount at the Credit Department of the Central Bank.
3.27      The first three subloans above US$100,000 equivalent from each
intermediary would be, as a general rule, subject to prior IDA review and
approval. Thereafter, assuming satisfactory standards, IDA would review a
sample of subprojects on an ex-post basis during supervision missions,
particularly of larger projects.
3.28      The Central Bank will serve as disbursement and collection agent
for the financing granted to intermediaries. The Credit Department, which
is currently responsible for rediscount operations, would execute
rediscount and collection operations upon approval by the PB. On the basis
of the PB's instructions and authorizations, the Credit Department of the
Central Bank would debit or credit the appropriate financial intermediary's
account without further intervention in the approval process.



- 30 -
3.29      Financial intermediaries would be responsible for making
supervision visits to enterprises receiving IDA funds. for maintaining
records adequate to monitor the evolution of subprojects, and for reporting
to the PB on the progress of each subproject and the status of the
corresponding subloan. Supervision reports, in a standard format
prescribed by the PB, would be required from the intermediaries at least
once a year until the loans are repaid. These intermediaries' supervision
responsibilities are specified in the participating agreement that
intermediaries would sign with the Central Bank.
3.30      In addition, the PB would conduct its own selective follow-up
of subprojects in order to monitor the performance of intermediaries'
supervision activities.
Assistance and Trainint Component
3.31      Design and Special Featuresi.  The technical assistance and
training component (US$3.0 million) includes subcomponents to support
ongoing reforms in mining, industry and finance, and to provide assistance
to small and medium enterprises. While only a few items of the overall
TA package are directly related to the implementation of the APEX line
of credit, all the other ones contribute to the overall objective of the
credit, namely to foster private sector initiative. Two items are already
financed under a PPF (assistance to the Ministry of Industry, Energy and
Mines on mining sector issues, and Central Bank Supervision).
3.32      The program can be grouped into the following categories;  (i)
support of ongoing reforms in the financial sector; (ii) assistance to the
mining sector; (iii) improvement of the overall investment climate and
strengthening of the revival of private enterprises; and (iv) assistance
to small and medium enterprises. Each of these TA elements is designed
to ensure impact and effectiveness based on the following three criteria,
(i) fill an important need; (ii) be implemented and controlled with close
beneficiary involvement; and (iii) be accessible to a defined target group
of beneficiaries without infringement of competition.
3.33      Financial Sector TA Program.  The program would consist of three
technical assistance components designed to upgrade know-how and capacities
within the banking sector. A total of US$600,000 is proposed to be spent
for this purpose, as follows:
(i)  The Supervision and Control Function of the Central Bank would
be strengthened through training and professional advice of a
specialized accounting and financial advisory company. This will
be finauced through a PPF of US$250,000 (approved on February 17,
1989). Specific terms of reference have been agreed and approved
and focus on improving on-site Bank inspection (controle sur
place) as well as staff training;
(ii) Training Seminars in Projiect Evaluation and Credit Supervision
would be held at the end of 1990 and repeated in early 1992 for
credit analysts of PFI headquarters and regional agencies as well



- 31 -
as of the Central Bank. These seminars would be implemented by
the banking association (Association Professionnelle des Banques,
APB) in collaboration with outside consultantsltrainers and would
have a foreign cost component of US$100,000. Local cost
participation by PIle and the Central Bank would be an estimated
US$20,000 for seminar logistics; and
(iii) Assistance to the Preparation and Implementation of the New Honey
Market, to be put in place by the Central Bank as part of the
financial sector reforms (para. 3.07) under the project. In
addition to the technical advice to be provided by the CBD of the
IMH, the detailed design and the operation of the new indirect
system of liquidity management would require specialized training
of CB's staff (which will be undertaken at other central banks
using similar system) and expanded financial and monetary
database information systems. The foreign cost of this
assistance amounts to US$250,000.
3.34      Technical Assistance to the Mining Sector (financed through a
US$500,000 PPF, approved in June 1988) is being implemented in 1989190 by
the Directorate of ML.nes of the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines
(MIEM). It includess (i) consulting services (US$170,000) to ensure
effective implementation of the new mining code through preparing the
necessary implementation decrees and a mining investor's guide, as well
as a workable strategy for assistance to mining sector SHEs, a market
opportunity study for specific minerals and a proposal for reorganizing
the existing mining laboratory; (ii) office and laboratory equipment as
well as vehicles (US$280,000); and (iii) the printing and distribution of
the new mining code, corresponding regulations (decrets) and the mining
Investor's guide (US$50,000).
3.35      Private Sector Framework.  A key part of the TA proposed under
the project is a program specifically directed at strengthening the
Private Sector framework and coordination, with an estimated total cost
of US$190,000.  This component would consist of the following:
(i) Approval to restructure the dormant Chamber of Commerce. Industry
and Agriculture is expected from the authorities as a condition
of disbursement under the second portion. Preparatory documents
submitted jointly by the private sector (GEM, SIM, FIVMPAMA) in
collaboration with the administration (Ministry of Industry,
Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Agriculture) proposed amended
by-laws (statute) that would abolish direct state control over
the Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, and reinstate
its independent status. The restructured Chamber would require
up-to-date telecommunication and data processing equipment for
its offices in Antananarivo and in regional centers as well as
training inputs (scholarships for key staff), in order to resume
effective operation. The proposed contribution under the project
would be US$40,000.



- 32 -
(ii) Comunuication and Motivation Campaisa. Under this technical
assistance componenc the JCEf would be in charge of a three
year communication campaign targeted at the creation and
expansion of private enterprises. It would involve (i) a
series of promotional missions to up to 12 regional centers,
with participation from the technical ministries, the banks,
professional associations such as the association of consulting
firms, FIVMPAMA, APEM, GEM; (ii) a continuous information
campaign usinu local media, including radio and selected press
and featuring attention-catching interviews with successful
entrepreneurs, quiz, and competitions; and (iii) printed
information material targeted at promoters. The three-year
campaign would be prepared during the first semester of 1990
and would start following project effectiveness. The total
cost, excluding voluntary work by JCEK members, is estimated
at US$55,000 of which the IDA contribution would amount to
US$50, 000.
(iii)  One-Stop Investment Approval and Promotion Center (Guichet
Unique). Following promulgation of the new Investment Code
and Law on the establishment of Industrial Free Zones, the
Government decided to set up a special promotion unit designed to
streamline and accelerate the various administrative procedures
for authorization to invest in Madagascar. It is expected that
the Center will become the sole interlocutor and advisor to
prospective investors requesting benefits under the new
regulations. The guichet would centralize all the administrative
work related to the study of conformity of investment proposals
and their eligibility under the Code and Free Zone legislation
following an accelerated procedure. Though autonomous, the unit
will report administratively to the Ministry of Finance and
Budget, while its recommendations regarding requests under the
Code, to be finalized within two months, would go directly to
the Council of Ministers for final approval. Upon approval, the
Center would continue assisting investors to implement proposals
by aiding in all the necesiary administrative authorizations
for building and work permits, water and electricity access,
licensing, etc. The guichet would also undertake marketing
and promotional activities while initiating further studies to
improve regulatory and legal procedures for investment approvals.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the objectives and
prelimin&ry terms of reference of the Center. The Credit would
finance the necessary equipment and materials for the Center,
for an amount of US$100,000. Final agreement with IDA on the
terms of reference and procedures of the Center, and the official
establishment of the unit, would be conditions of disbursement of
this financing.
3.36      Development of Small and Medium Enterprises is the objective of
a proposed comprehensive TA program that aims to complement and integrate
limited SNE support provided by other donors such as UNIDO, ILO, FED,
French assistance and CIDA (see para. 1.71-1.75). This technical



- 33 -
assistance is to be provided to beneficiaries mostly on a fee-paying or
cofinmncing basis, to ensure efficiency in its usage. Selection arrange-
ments would include private representation in decision-making bodies.
With a total proposed IDA contribution of US$1,340,000, the SME program
includes the following four subcomponents:
i  Scholarship program for overseas in-plant trainina and in-compan
visits for SME promoters and technical staff of SMls
(US$200,000). The proposed scholarship program would also be
implemented by the Jeune Chambre Economique de Madagascar (JCEM)
which already enjoys good contacts with regional sections of the
JCE of neighboring Mauritius and Reunion islands as well as in
Europe. Participants in the planned program for overseas
in-plant training and in-company visits will be up to 50
individuals, namely SME promoters with an investment project
either at pre-feasibility study, feasibility study or launching
stages. Additionally, key tecbnical staff of SiEs would also be
eligible. US$10,000 would be earmarked as an IDA contribution
towards meeting the cost of a minimal permanent structure for
JCEM (office with a secretary). The signing of a Cooperation
Agreement between the Government and JCEH defining the functions
and responsibilities of the latter in carrying out this scholar-
ship program and the communication and motivation campaign
(para. 3.35), under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of disbursement to JCEK.
(i1) Revolving Funds for SME Feasibility Studies. The cost and
financing of SME project preparation and starting up present a
hurdle for many SME promoters and hinders potential projects at
an early stage. The usual fee charged by local consulting firms
for a feasibility study for the creation or extension of an SHE
(together with the documents necessary for a bank loan and for
the approval process required for eligibility to benefit under
the Investment Code) can be substantial, from FMG 2-15 million,
equivalent to USS1,300-l0,000. Other cost elements involve
choice of technology and in-plant training for the promoter or
key SME staff, often requiring a trip abroad. Recognizing the
problem, two of the local banks (BNI and BFV) have each
initiated, on a very small and tentative basis, a revolving fund
for co-financing of feasibility studies for good SHE project
ideas presented by their clients. Based on the positive
experience of these revolving funds and in view of providing
an additional stimulus to get projects underway for at least
150 SME promoters, all participating financial institutions would
be encouraged to make use of this facility. IDA would co-finance
these partially revolving funds for SME feasibility studies of
up to one third of the cost, amounting to an estimated total
of US$350,000 during project duration. The Implementation and
management of these revolving funds would be left to the
participating financial institutions with periodic supervision
by IDA missions.



- 34 -
(iii)  Program of Extension Services to SMEs.  One of the essential
elements of effective SME promotion are effective extension
services capable of providing technical assistance tailor-made
to the needs of target enterprises. Everywhere in Madagascar
SHEs have to catch up with state-of-the-art management techniques
including accounting, financial management, marketing, export
promotion, planning and control of production, with procurement
and maintenance systems, as well as with data processing and
office management. Many of the approximately 50 local consulting
firms and some of the local technical and managerial training
institutions have already built up a capability to deliver
assistance in many aspects of management, but the majority of
SMEs hardly takes advantage of locally available expertise.
One of the chief reasons for lov utilization of local consulting
resources is the attached price tag perceived as high by most
SMEs.  A simple scheme to be introduced aims at activating local
expertise for improving management techniques of up to 500 SMEs
and thus, to potentially contribute to their sustained viability.
Under the proposed scheme, participating SMEs may freely contract
consulting services from a list of consulting firms and training
institutions (issued annually by an independent panel).
Consulting fees would be co-financed through the IDA TA component
(75Z, up to an annual maximum contribution of US$800 per SME) as
would travelling expenses for consulting services provided to
SMEs outside the capital (2/3 of cost, up to an annual maximum
contribution of US$400 per SME). The SME Assistance Unit in the
Ministry of Economy and Plan would proceed to refund the cost
contribution to the beneficiary SMEs within 45 days of the
presentation of bills already paid by the SME to the consulting
firm. The scheme is expected to cost up to US$640,000 for three
years of operation (1991-1993) and to co-finance consulting
services to SMEs of up to US$1.2 million within that period.
The SME Assistance Unit would act as the coordinator of this
program.
(iv)  Support to the SME Assistance Unit (AU) that has recently been
transferred to the Ministry of Economy and Plan. Six man-months
of short-term expert advice (2 to 3 short missions per year)
would be provided to support the permanent staff (a manager,
2 professionals and a secretary) and the AU's material would be
improved by additional furniture and necessary office equipment.
In coordinating IDA's TA to SMEs, the Unit would: (i) provide
guidance to potential SME beneficiaries; (ii) participate in the
selection committee for the scholarship program for overseas in-
plant training and in-company visits for SME promoters; (iii) act
as an executing institution for the program of extension services
to SHEs; and (iv) prepare bi-annual reports and statistical data
on the activities as well as submit any relevant observation or
recommendations. The cost contribution by IDA for the
coordination of SME technical assistance would amount to about
US$150,000 over the duration of the project (2nd semester 1990
to end 1994).



- 35 -
3.37      Summary of Estimated Cost.  The technical assistance component is
estimated to provide financing over a period of 4 years (including already
approved PPF financing) as followss
US$
Central Bank supervision reinforcement                       250,000 (PPF)
Training seminars in project evaluation and supervision    100 000
Preparation and implementation of new Money Market           250,000
TA to the mining sector                                      500,000 (PPF)
Restructuring of the Chamber of Commerce                      40,000
Communication Campaign                                        50,000
One-Stop Investment Promotion Center                         Ilno.000
Overseas company visits                                      200,000
Revolving Study Fund                                         350,000
Extension Services to SMEs                                   640,000
Support to SME assistance unit                               150,000
Unallocated                                                  370,000
TOTAL                                              3,000,000
3.38      Terms and Conditions.  Funds allocated for the technical
assistance component would be passed on as a grant from Government to
the implementing agencies and beneficiaries and would be available for
commitment until December 31, 1994. The component would be managed by the
SME assistance unit on behalf of the Government. The unit would review
requests for financing from the implementing agencies before submitting
them to IDA for prior approval along with a brief justification and
qualification of the experts. The unit woul4 also coordinate and process
disbursement requests.
Proiect Bureau
3.39      To help manage the investment component of the project, it is
proposed to establish a Project Bureau (PB) which would be located at the
Central Bank and would report to the Director General. The PB activities
would be governed by terms of reference acceptable to IDA. Draft terms of
reference have been discussed with the CB, and are available in the project
file. The Central Bank has agreed to provide offices for the PB, which
would be autonomous, with own staff, operating policies and procedures.
3.40      The staff of the PB would consist of a qualified, senior level,
project analyst who would be the unit chief (and who has already been
identified), an accountant/financial analyLt and support staff. The
identification of personnel has already started but is not yet completed.
All positions would be filled by local staff from the inception of the
bureau.
3.41      The PB would receive a spread of one half of one percent p.a.
on the outstanding amount of subloans to cover its administrative expenses.
As this spread might not be fully aufficient to cover the expenses during



- 36 -
the first year of operation, the Central Bank has agreed to absorb any
possible front-end cost overruns, as those will be compensated for later
on.
3.42      The functions of the Pi would be as follows:
(i) ensure adherence of participating intermediaries to established
procedures in selecting subprojects and ensure application of
appropriate standards, including environmental considerations,
for subloan appraisals. The PB would be responsible for getting
the technical advice of the relevant authorities (to be
established in accordance with the IDA Environment I Project)
in its review of environmental considerations of subprojects;
(ii) review the eligibility and authorize fJnancing under the line of
credit for subprojects submitted by participating intermediaries.
For subloans of less than US$100,000 equivalent, the PB would
only insure that the requests meet the eligibility criteria
(para. 3.18) and would give its approval within five working days
from submission. For subloans above US$100,000 equivalent, the
PB would review, within a maximum period of ten working days, the
requests in more detail, would give its comments on the quality
of the appraisal to the participating intermediary and would
insure that the ell ibility criteria are met;
(iii) administer the Project Special Account (para. 3.51), ensure
proper disbursements of funds and supervise and centralize
collection and forwarding of supporting documentation;
(iv) supervise the participating intermediaries' compliance with the
various obligations (para. 3.15) under the project;
(v) supervise, on a sample basis, subprojects; and
(vi) ensure liaison between IDA and the participating intermediaries
on matters related to subprojects.
SHE Assistance Unit
3.43      To help implement the technical assistance component of the
project, the small/medium enterprise assistance unit at the Ministry
of Economy and Plan will be enlarged and take on added responsibility.
The unit will also be assisted by foreign experts on a short-term basis.
The activit4es of the Unit tunder the project would be governed by a
Cooperation Agreement to be signed between the Unit and the Government.
3.44      The SME assistance unit will request, in addition to IDA funding,
to receive grant funds from the Swiss cooperation to partly cover other
short-term consulting assignments as needed. In addition to the 6 man-
months of short-term expert advice, IDA would finance up to a total of
US$50,000 of office equipment and materials, and up to US$40,000 for
operating costs.



- 37 -
3.45      In managing IDA's TA assistance, the AU woulds
(i)  provide guidance to potential beneficiaries for the preparation
of subprojects to be financed under the line of credit;
(ii)  implement the general SME assistance program as per the
Cooperation Agreement between the Government and the Unit; and
(iii)  coordinate all other aspects of the TA program with the specific
implementing agencies (with the APB the organization of seminars
for bank staff, with PPIs the feasibility studies revolving
funds, with JCEM the information campaign, etc.).
Proiect Cost and Financing
3.46      Total project cost is estimated at US$66.3 million equivalent, of
which US$46.0 million equivalent (69 percent) wo!:ld be in foreign exchange.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$48.0 million would cover 72.4 percent of the
total cost of the project. The remainder 27.6 percent would be financed by
sub-borrowers (27.3Z) and the SHE Assistance Unit (0.3X). A summary of the
project cost and its expected financing are given in the table below:
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign      Total       X
----US$ million equivalent------
Estimated Cost:
Investments                             18.5      44.0       62.5    94.3
Technical Assistance and Training        1.6        1.9       3.5      5.3
SME Assistance Unit                      0.2       0.1        0.3      0.5
TOTAL                                   20.3      46.0       66.3   100.0
Financing Plan:
Sub-borrowers                           18.1         -       18.1    27.3
SME Assistance Unit                      0.2         -        0.2      0.3
Proposed IDA Credit                      2.0      46.0       48.0    72.4
TOTAL                                   20.3      46.0       66.3   100.0



- 38 -
Project Implementation
3.47      Project Management.  The Central Bank, through the Project Bureau
(paras. 3.39-3.42), would be the implementing agency for the credit
component and the SME assistance unit in the Ministry of Economy and Plan
would be the implementing agency for the technical assistance component.
It is estimated that about 14 staff weeks per year of IDA supervision would
be required during implementation of the project.
3.48      Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement for subprojects
financed under the investment component of the Credit would generally be
made on the basis of current procurement procedures of the participating
financial institutions. These procedures, which require quotations from
three different suppliers, have been reviewed and found acceptable to IDA.
Procedures of future, not yet existing financial institutions who wish
to participate would be reviewed prior to their signing a participation
agreement. However, contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$2.0 million or more wculd be required to be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding, in accordance with IDA Procurement
Guidelines. Procurement of equipment and goods for the SME assistance
unit would be made on the basis of at least 3 quotations from reputable
suppliers. A statement to that effect will be included in the Cooperation
Agreement between the Government and the Unit. Selection of consultants
would be made in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The table below
summarizes the procurement methods.
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procurement Method
Procurement Element                 ICB       LCB       Other
---------(US$ million)------
Subloans                           n/a         -         62.5
(See a/)              (45.0) a/
Equipment/Vehicles                  -          -          0.7
(0.2) b/
Consultant Services and                                   3.1
Technical Assistance                                   (2.8) c/
TOTAL                                              66.3
(48.0)
a/   Standard commercial practice; contracts fcr goods exceeding
US$2,000,000 equivalent would require ICB, should they arise.
The appraisal mission did not identify any subproject qualifying
for ICB.
b1    3 quotations.
c/   In accordance with IDA guidelines.



- 39 -
3.49      The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed as
followss
Subloanst 100 percent of expenditures up to 70 percent of total
subproject cost for new operations;
s 100 percent of expenditures up to 80 percent of total cost
of subprojects for extensions.
Technical Assistance and training comyonent: 100 percent of the
cost of consultants, training and of the c.i.f. cost of
goods directly imported; 80 percent of the cost of local
goods.
3.50      The project disbursement schedule is based on the relevant
disbursement profile for industrial development and finance projects in
Africa. It is expected that the investment component would be disbursed in
seven years and the technical assistance component over four years. Funds
under the credit component would be available for commitment until December
31, 1995. Disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1997. The credit
component is divided into two portions (US$18.0 million for the first
portion and US$27.0 million for the second one).
3.51      Special Account.  To expedite disbursement of funds, a Special
Account would be set up in a financial institution acceptable to IDA into
which IDA would make an initial deposit of US dollars 2.0 million from
the proposed Credit immediately after credit effectiveness. This amount
represents an estimated average disbursement of funds over a four-month
period. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be
submitted on a monthly basis. The Special Account would be audited
annually by independent auditors and the audit reports would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year. Disbursements for
expenditures for all contracts for goods and services or individual items
under US$50,000 would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). The documentation for withdrawals made under SOEs would be
retained by the Assistance Unit for ten years and would be reviewed by
supervision missions and audited annually.  All other disbursements would
be made on the basis of fully documented applications.
3.52      Auditing and Reporting.  The Assistance Unit and the Project
Bureau will have their accounts, as well as the Special Account and SOEs
(para. 3.51) audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
and will furnish to IDA certified copies of their audited accounts together
with the corresponding management letter within six months of the end of
the fiscal year.  The Assistance Unit will submit to IDA quarterly and
annual progress reports (including financial and budgetary accounts) on
the technical assistance component. The Project Bureau will also submit
to IDA quarterly and annual progress reports on the investment component.
Furthermore, the Project Bureau will review the annual audits of
participating financial intermediaries. The Project Bureau and the SHE
Assistance Unit together will prepare the required Project Completion
Report within 6 months after the closing date of the project.



- 40 -
Proiect Benefits and Riskc
3.53      Benefits.  Improved private sector resource mobilization and
allocation are expected from financial sector reform conditionality of this
project. Broader access to credit by the private sector is expected
through the APEX credit component, which would encourage real sector supply
response in the form of investment and reconstitution of permanent working
capital within a further deregulated and more competitive, partly
privatized, financial system. In addition, the project would generate
employment opportunities, thus helping absorb expected unemployment as
a result of PE closures in the future. Finally, through targeted SHE
assistance, services for this high-potential subsector will be improved.
3.54,     Risks.  Had.gaszar is undergoing substantial changes in its
banklng sector not only through portfolio restructuring of existing banks
but also through allowing private capltal to re-enter the sector for the
first time since 1972. While the project aims at reinforcing and carrying
forward these reforms, there remains a risk that the political will to
continue with this process might falter, especially in implementing
expected privatization efforts of financial institutions and within the
enterprise sector in general. The Government's commitment to reform and
achievements during the last five years suggest that the risk is not
excessive.
PART TV - AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDING REACHED
4.01      During negotiations, the following agreements and understandings
were r.eached:
(i) Financial Sector Policy relateds
- increase of the threshold of the Central Bank's prior
authorization prerogative to FMG 5.0 billion (effectiveness)
and abolition of this prerogative (disbursement of second
portion) (paras. 1.48 and 3.07);
- reorganization of the money market and rediscount mechanisms
in accordance with the recommendations of the CBD mission,
including, inter alia, introduction of the AO system, use
of the AO rate as the general reference rate, setting of an
intervention band for the interbank rate, overhaul of the
rediscount facility by only rediscounting Treasury bills,
and introduction of a lender-of-last-resort facility (by
October 15, 1990) (para. 3.07);
- modification of the system of individual credit ceilings
for banks (effectiveness) and abolition of these ceilings
(disbursement of second portion) (paras. 1.36 and 3.08);



- 41 -
- changes in the reserve requirement system to convert it
to a system of monthly reserves based on banks' deposits
(effectiveness) (paras. 1.40 and 3.08);
- Central Bank staff relinquish their board membership from
banks they are supervising ex officio (disbursement of second
portion) (paras. 1.18 and 3.09); and
- regular publication of the results of the Treasury bill
auctions (effectiveness) (paras. 1.46 and 3.09);
- issuance of an implementing instruction clarifying the
inconsistency of art. 51 of the Banking Law (effectiveness)
(paras. 1.32 and 3.09);
(ii) related to the private enterprise sector.
- regular publication of statistical bulletin by the Central
Bank (effectiveness) (paras. 1.66 and 3.10);
- approval of new statutes for the Chamber of Co=merce
and Industry, converting it into a truly private sector
representative body (disbursement of second portion)
(paras. 1.65 and 3.10);
(iii) related to Credit execution:
- signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and the Central Bank (effectiveness) (para. 3.13);
- suppression of the ceiling on PFI's spread on subloans
(disbursement of second portion) (para. 3.23).
4.02      Conditions of Disbursement:
- signing of the Participating Agreement between the Central Bank
and financial intermediaries is a condition of disbursement for
each intermediary (para. 3.16);
- signing of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government
and JCEM is a condition of disbursement for the technical
assistance managed by JCEM (paras. 3.35 and 3.36);
- establishment of the Investment Promotion Center, with terms
of reference and operating procedures satisfactory to IDA, is
a condition of disbursement of the assistance to this Center
(para. 3.35).



- 42 -
4.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$48.0 million
equivalent to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar.



- 43 -                           ANNEX I
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT BY SECTOR
(Gross Credit in FMG Billion)
Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    June    Sept
1985    1986    1987    1988    1988
Agriculture, Livestock & Fishing            64.7    81.7    78.1    68.6    82.9
Mining                                       5.6      9.0    14.7    14.7    13.8
Building materials                          14.0    15.2    17.9       7.5     7.7
Food industry                               36.7    34.2    36.4    44.8    52.5
Agro-industry                                2.6      2.1     5.7      4.5     5.0
Textiles and Garments                       45.7    45.3    56.9    60.5    59.9
Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals               26.7    27.8    36.5    37.1    39.5
Petroleum products                           6.0      4.4     5.7      4.8     5.2
Mechanical, metallurgical and               14.6    13.2    20.2    34.5    40.6
electrical industries
Other manufacturing industries              10.5    12.7    15.5    19.6    19.4
Construction and Public Works               39.0    42.1    49.1    39.3    40.6
Transport and Transit                       11.9    13.8    11.2       9.0    11.2
Trade                                       63.7    69.8    77.9    72.7    92.9
Others                                      14.7    17.3    22.1    23.2    24.7
TOTAL                                      356.3   388.7   447.9   440.9   495.9
Note: Does not include credits below FMG 10 million.
Source: Central Bank.



- 44 -                             ANINEX II
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
DISTRIBUTION OF CREDIT BY TERM AND TYPE OF BORROWER
(Gross Credit in FMG Billion)
Dec.    Dec.    Dec.    June    Sept
1985    1986    1987    1988    1988
Private Sector
Short Term                             170.7   180.3   212.0   242.6   272.0
Medium Term                             12.z    11.2    14.0    15.3    18.0
Long Term                                2.9     5.2    14.4    17.4    .8.8
TOTAL                                  185.7   196.7   240.3   275.3   308.8
Public Sector
Short Term                             143.9   155.3   154.2   115.2   133.6
Medium Term                             14.0    17.6    26.7    19.6    19.6
Long Term                               12.6    19.1    26.8    30.9    34.0
TOTAL                                  170.6   192.1   207.6   165.7   187.2
Private and Public Sectors
Short Term                             314.6   335.6   366.2   357.8   405.5
Medium Term                             26.2    28.8    40.7    34.9    37.6
Long Term                               15.5    24.3    41.1    48.3    52.8
TOTAL                                  355.3   388.6   447.9   440.9   495.9
Note: Does not include credits below FMG 10 million.
Sources Central Bank.



- 45 -
MADAGASCAR                           ANNEX III
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
SUMKARY BALANCE SHEET OF BFV
(FMG Billion)
Dec.      Dec.       Dec.      Dec.
1985      1986       1987      1988
ASSETS
Cash, Central Bank, Treasury        9.9       40.9      21.9       14.6
Banks and Correspondants            2.0        1.4       1.6        3.8
Money Market                        0.0        0.0      18.8       17.9
Credits (net of provisions)        86.8       89.1     107.6      116.7
Short term                     (80.1)    (77.3)    (93.0)    (99.7)
Medium term                     (6.6)    (10.7)    (14.1)    (15.7)
Long term                        0.0       (1.0)     (0.4)      (1.3)
Securities and fixed assets         2.0        2.7      13.9       15.1
Other assets                       19.8       23.3      20.2       21.0
120.4     157.3      183.9     189.1
LIABILITIES
Banks                               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.3
Central Bank and Money Market       0.0        0.0       0.0        1.1
Demand Deposits                    43.6       51.6      65.9       86.2
Time Deposits                      30.4       52.1      45.0       45.1
Term Borrowings                     0.0        0.6       0.5        0.2
Accounts Payable                    7.7       12.5      11.2       10.5
Other liabilities                  20.5       19.0      20.6       19.5
Reserves & general provisions      14.9       18.1      37.6       14.0
Capital                             3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0
Net profit                          0.4        0.3       0.0        9.2
120.4     157.3     183.9      189.1
Note: December 1988 figures are based on preliminary accounts



- 46 -                            ANNEX IV
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
SUMARY BALANCE SHEET OF BNI
(FMG Billion)
Dec.      Dec.       Dec.      Dec.
1985      1986       1987      1988
ASSETS
Cash, Central Bank, Treasury        4.5       15.0      39.4       37.5
Banks and Correspondants            5.1        1.5       5.3        6.7
Money Market                        0.0        0.0       1.3       24.2
Credits (net of provisions)       122.2      117.0     142.6      191.7
Short term                    (112.9)   (100.0)   (112.5)   (138.5)
Medium term                     (2.8)      (3.8)    (10.8)    (11.4)
Long term                       (6.6)    (13.3)    (19.3)    (41.9)
Securities and fixed assets         9.8       10.5      22.9       24.7
Other assets                       23.6       42.2      62.2       59.1
165.2     186.2     273.7      343.9
LIABILITIES
Banks                               1.1        1.5       1.1        0.7
Central Bank and Money Market       4.8        0.2       2.6        6.6
Demand Deposits                    58.0       64.2      83.4      108.4
Time Deposits                      30.9       36.8      43.0       48.8
Term Borrowings                    10.1       12.4      24.0       19.0
Accounts Payable                   15.3       18.9      36.0       34.1
Other liabilities                  25.9       31.9      49.2       77.6
Reserves & general provisions      14.0       15.2      29.1       29.9
Capital                             4.5        4.5       4.5        4.5
Net profit                          0.6        0.7       0.9       14.2
165.2     186.2     273.7      343.9
Notes December 1988 figures are based on preliminary accounts



-47 -
ANNEX V
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
SUMMARY BALANCE SUEST OF B71
(FMG Billion)
Dec.      Dec.       Dec.      Dec.
1985      1986       1987      1988
ASSETS
Cash, Central Bank, Treasury         8.0      11.2       20.2       19.3
Banks and Correspondants             2.7       4.2        7.1        9.8
Money Market                         0.0       0.0        2.0        0.0
Credits (net of provisions)        111.4     142.7      159.0     200.8
Short term                      (97.7)   (121.1)   (136.3)   (172.8)
Medium term                     (10.3)    (15.8)    (13.7)    (18.5)
Long term                        (3.3)     (5.9)      (9.0)      (9.5)
Securities and fixed assets          3.4       4.0       25.7      29.9
Other assets                        15.2      24.4       17.9       16.2
140.7     186.5      232.1     276.0
LIABILITIES
Banks                                0.1       0.0        0.8        0.0
Central Bank and Money Market        0.0       0.0        2.7       19.1
Demand Deposits                     61.1      82.4       92.8     102.6
Time Deposits                       42.0      54.6       60.9       79.8
Term Borrowings                      2.3       2.0        2.0        1.8
Accounts Payable                     8.3      11.0       13.5        8.8
Other liabilities                   12.6      20.2       20.9       28.8
Reserves & general provisions        5.8       5.2       26.0       26.5
Capital                              8.4      10.9       12.3      13.2
Net profit                           0.2       0.2        0.3       (4.7)
140.7     186.5      232.1     276.0
Note: December 1988 figures are based on preliminary accounts



- 48 -                           ANNEX VI
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT (APEX) CREDIT
CENTRAL BANK ORGANIZATION CHART
GOVERNOR     l
Director General
| Deputy Directr 
l        General          l
Technical   1F
AdvisorSevc
Legal                                                             ial
Advisor                                                     Operations
Director of
Hissions   J                                             Administration
-                                            Organisation and
Credit                                                    ata processing
r                                          | Toamasina
Studies    j                                              Branch          I
I
Insection|



- 49 -                          ANNEX VII
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE (APEX) DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(Cumulative US$ thousands)
IDA Fiscal Year             Credit       T.A.                   Cumulative
and Quarter Ending          Component   Component*  Total              x
FY90
June 30, 1990                 ---           500       500             1.0
FY91
September 30, 1990            ---           600       600             1.3
December 31, 1990             700           700     1,400             2.9
March 31, 1991              1,350           800     2,150             4.5
June 30, 1991               2,900         1,050     3,950             8.2
FY92
September 30, 1991          4,500         1,300     5,800            12.1
December 31, 1991           6,100         1,400     7,500            15.6
March 31, 1992              7,650         1,450     9,100            19.0
June 30, 1992               9,900         1,550    11,450            23.9
FY93
September 30, 1992         12,150        1,800    13,950             29.1
December 31, 1992          13,700         1,950    15,650            32.6
March 31, 1993             15,300         2,300    17,600            36.7
June 30, 1993              17,300         2,650    19,950            41.6
FY94
September 30, 1993         19,350        2,700    22,050             45.9
Dec .ber 31, 1993          20,900         2,750    23,650            49.3
March 31, 1994             22,500         2,800    25,300            52.7
June 30, 1994              25,400         2,900    28,300            59.0
FY95
September 30, 1994         28,350        3,000    31,350             65.3
December 31, 1994          30,400         3,000    33,400            69.6
March 31, 1995             32,400         3,000    35,400            73.8
June 30, 1995              34,700         3,000    37,700            78.5
FY'6
September 30, 1995         36,900        3,000    39,900             83.1
December 31, 1995          38,300         3,000    41,300            86.0
March 31, 1996             39,600         3,000    42,600            88.8
June 30, 1996              40,700         3,000    43,700            91.0
FY97
September 30, 1996         41,850         3,000    44,850            93.4
December 31, 1996          43,000         3,000    46,000            95-8
March 31,1997              44,100         3,000    47,100            98.1
June 30, 1997              45,000         3,000    48,000           100.0
* Incl. PPF fintncing



- 50 -
ANNEX VIII
MADAGASCAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND PRIVATE ENTERPRISE (APEX) CREDIT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1. Draft Participating Agreement
|.  Operating Norms and Procedures for Participating
Financial Intermediaries
3. Draft Terms of Reference for the Central Bank Project Bureau
4. Appraisal Format
5. Simplified Appraisal Format



