Page  1
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2104 MAG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Financial Sector and Private Enterprise
                           Development Project)
                                  between
                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated April 4, 1990
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2104 MAG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   parts of the Project will be carried out by Banque Centrale de
la Republique Democratique de Madagascar and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Banque Centrale de la Republique
Democratique de Madagascar parts of the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and the Banque Centrale de la
Republique Democratique de Madagascar;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General
Page  2
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BCRDM" means the Banque Centrale de la Republique Democratique
de Madagascar, established pursuant to its Statutes;
      (b)   "Statutes" means the statutes of BCRDM, dated June 12, 1973, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BCRDM, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement between the
Borrower and BCRDM to be entered into pursuant to the provisions of Section
3.03 of this Agreement;
      (e)   "MFB" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Budget;
      (f)   "MIEM" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for mining;
      (g)   "CCI" means the Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Madagascar;
      (h)   "JCEM" means the Association of Young Entrepreneurs;
      (i)   "Project Management Unit" means the unit of BCRDM responsible
for the administration of the line of Credit to be made available under Part
A of the Project;
      (j)   "SME Assistance Unit" means the unit responsible for small- and
medium-scale enterprise promotion, within the Borrower's Ministry of Economy
and Plan;
      (k)   "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made
by a Participating Financial Institution to an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to such Participating Financial Institution by BCRDM;
      (l)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Participating Financial Institution proposes to make or has made a
Sub-loan;
      (m)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project,
including expansions of existing projects, to be carried out by an
Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
      (n)   "Participating Financial Institution" and "PFI" mean a bank or
financial institution, eligible according to the provisions of Section 2.03
(b) of the Project Agreement, with which BCRDM entered, or proposes to
enter, into an agreement ("Participation Agreement") for the purpose of
relending parts of the proceeds of the Credit to Investment Enterprises for
Investment Projects;
      (o)   "SME" means an enterprise whose net fixed assets do not exceed
450,000,000 FMG and whose ratio of net fixed assets divided by number of
staff does not exceed 15,000,000 FMG;
      (p)   "FMG" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (q)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (r)   "Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
by the Borrower and JCEM, or such other entity acceptable to the
Association, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement; and
      (s)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
Page  3
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of
letters dated February 25, 1988, June 8, 1988, November 23, 1988 and
February 17, 1989, between the Borrower and the Association.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty six million
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
amounts to be paid) under Part A of the Project by a Participating Financial
Institution on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under
a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit
Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Parts B through E of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause BCRDM, for the purposes of the Project,
to open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial bank in
the name of BCRDM on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower and BCRDM of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Page  4
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1,
2000 and ending February 1, 2030. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded 790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                        Description of the Project;
                       Use of Proceeds of the Credit
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this
end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, shall: (a) cause BCRDM to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of BCRDM therein set forth, take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BCRDM to perform such
obligations, and not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance;
      (b)   cause JCEM or such other entity as shall be acceptable to the
Association to carry out Parts D.2 and E.1 of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative practices
and in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement, whose terms and conditions
shall have been approved by the Association;
      (c)   carry out Part C of the Project through MIEM, Parts D.1, and
E.2, E.3 and E.4 through the SME Assistance Unit, and Part D.3 through MFB
with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate
administrative practices; and
      (d)   take and cause to be taken all action, including the provisions
of funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Parts B
through E of the Project and, without limitation upon the foregoing, make
available to JCEM, or any other entity acceptable to the Association, the
proceeds of the Credit allocated and withdrawn for the purpose of Parts D.2
and E.1 of the Project as a grant.
      Section 3.02. With respect to Parts A and B of the Project, the
Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Credit allocated and
withdrawn under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph
Page  5
1 of Schedule I to this Agreement to BCRDM under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and BCRDM under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association which shall include:
      (a)   for the purposes of Part A of the Project:
            (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) below, an interest rate of
                  12% per annum minus an administration fee of half of one
                  percent per annum of the amount withdrawn from Category
                  1 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
                  this Agreement;
            (ii)  upon the establishment of a new money market interest
                  rate structure, acceptable to the Association, the
                  interest rate referred to above shall be determined by
                  reference to that rate structure;
            (iii) the principal amount shall be repaid in twenty (20)
                  annual installments, the first of which is payable ten
                  (10) years after the Effective Date of this Agreement;
            (iv)  the foreign exchange risk to be borne by the Borrower;
                  and
            (v)   the obligation of BCRDM to enter into Participation
                  Agreements with eligible Participating Financial
                  Institutions, for the purpose of onlending the proceeds
                  of the Credit withdrawn from Category I of the table set
                  forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement at
                  the regular discount rate and, upon the establishment of
                  the new money market interest rate structure acceptable
                  to the Association, at the general reference rate
                  resulting from that rate structure, subject to the
                  provisions of Section 3.03 below, with maturities equal
                  to the maturities and grace periods of the Sub-loans made
                  by any such Participating Financial Institution to
                  Investment Enterprises; and
      (b)   for the purposes of Part B of the Project that the funds
allocated to Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement will be made available to BCRDM as a grant.
      Section 3.03. During execution of the Project, the Borrower and the
Association shall review the onlending arrangements to determine whether
they are adequate to reflect the economic cost of capital and to compensate
the Borrower for the foreign exchange risk referred to in Section 3.02 (iv)
above and the Borrower shall promptly adjust the onlending rates referred
to in Section 3.02 (a) (i), (ii) and (v) above if they are found inadequate
by the Association after any such review.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Cooperation Agreement, in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
such agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Parts B
through E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively in respect of Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried out
by BCRDH pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.07. By December 31, 1991 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association shall agree, the Borrower and the Association shall
exchange views on the actions specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  6
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within MFB separate
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Borrower in
respect of Parts C through E of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   BCRDM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that BCRDM will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)    The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations
Page  7
or financial condition of BCRDM or its ability to carry out its
responsibilities under Parts A and B of the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BCRDM or
for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and
BCRDM; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed by the Borrower
and BCRDM;
      (b)   BCRDM has adopted a new reserve requirement determination system
applicable to the banking sector, acceptable to the Association;
      (c)   BCRDH has started to publish the outcome of treasury bill
auctions;
      (d)   BCRDM has increased its threshold for prior authorization of
credits to FMG 5 billion;
      (e)    BCRDM has modified the system of fixing individual credit
ceilings for banks, in a manner acceptable to the Association;
      (f)   BCRDM has issued an instruction which clarifies the provisions
of Article 51 of the Banking Law in a manner acceptable to the Association;
and
      (g)   BCRDM has resumed the regular publications of its statistical
bulletin.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)    that the Project Agreement has been signed by a person duly
authorized by BCRDM, and is legally binding upon BCRDM in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly signed and
authorized by, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BCRDM in
accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the pro-
visions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
Page  8
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances
                  et du Budget
            Antananarivo
            Madagascar
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                        22489
                  Antananarivo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                  By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonaivelo
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for@items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  9
(1) Goods and ser-
    vice financed
    by Sub-loans
    under Part A
    of the Project:
    (a)  first phase          13,600,000        100% of amounts
                                                disbursed by PFIs
    (b)  second phase         20,430,000        100% of amounts
                                                disbursed by PFIs
(2) Goods, training              260,000        100% of foreign
    and consultants'                            expenditures,
    services for                                100% of local
    Part B of the                               expenditures for
    Project                                     consultants' ser-
                                                vices and training
                                                and 80% of
                                                expenditures for
                                                goods procured
                                                locally
(3)  Goods and con-               30,000        100% of foreign
    sultants' services                          expenditures,
    for Part D.1                                100% of local
    of the Project                              expenditures for
                                                consultants' ser-
                                                vices and 80% of
                                                expenditures for
                                                goods procured
                                                locally
(4) Goods, training              190,000        100% of foreign
    and consultants'                            expenditures,
    services                                    100% of local
    for Part D.2                                expenditures for
    and E.1 of the                              consultants'
    Project                                     services, and
                                                training and 80%
                                                of expenditures
                                                for goods pro-
                                                cured locally
(5) Goods and con-               860,000        100% of foreign
    sultants' services                          expenditures,
    for Parts C and                             100% of local
    E.2 through E.4 of                          expenditures
    the Project                                 consultants'
                                                services and 80%
                                                of expenditures
                                                for goods pro-
                                                cured locally
(6) Goods and con-                80,000        100% of foreign
    sultants' services                          expenditures,
    for Part D.3 of                             100% of local
    the Project                                 expenditures for
                                                consultants'
                                                services and 80%
                                                of expenditures
                                                for goods pro-
                                                cured locally
(7) Refunding of                 570,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(8) Unallocated                  360,000
Page  10
         TOTAL                36,400,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
    (b) in respect of Sub-loans made, or to be made by any Participating
Financial Institution, and subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (c)
of this paragraph, unless: (i) the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with
the procedures and the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Part
B of the Schedule of the Project Agreement and has been approved or
authorized in accordance with the provisions of Parts A or B of the Schedule
to the Project Agreement; and (ii) BCRDM has entered into a Participation
Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of the
Project Agreement with the respective Participating Financial Institution;
    (c) in respect of Sub-loans to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (1) (b) unless the Association is satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.07 of this Agreement,
that the actions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement have been taken;
    (d) in respect of payments made, or to be made, for expenditures under
Category (4) unless the Cooperation Agreement has been signed by the
Borrower and JCEM, or another entity acceptable to the Association, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
    (e) in respect of payments made, or to be made, for expenditures under
Category (3) unless the Borrower has published new Statutes of CCI
acceptable to the Association; and
    (f) in respect of payments made, or to be made, for expenditures under
Category (6) unless the investment promotion center has been established
with responsibilities and operating procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.  If, after an exchange of views referred to in sub-paragraph 3 (c) above,
the Association is not so satisfied and this situation shall not be
rectified by the Borrower within ninety (90) days after notice thereof by
the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the remaining amount of the Credit allocated to Category 1 (b) of paragraph
1 above, or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing such
productive facilities as will contribute to the economic and social
development of Madagascar; and (ii) to strengthen institutions in the mining
and financial sector and those assisting small- and medium-scale
enterprises.
    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof, as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Line of Credit
    The financing of specific Investment Projects through Sub-loans granted
to Investment Enterprises by Participating Financial Institutions.
Page  11
Part B:    Financial Sector
1.  Carrying out of seminars in project evaluation and credit supervision
for higher level staff of Participating Financial Institutions and BCRDM.
2.  Strengthening of the supervision function and the capacity of monetary
market management of BCRDM through provision of computer equipment and
software and training, including training overseas.
Part C:    Mining Sector
1.  Assistance for the preparation of a new mining code.
2.  Assistance for small mining operators.
3.  Market opportunity studies for specific minerals and prepara-
tion of the reorganization of the mining laboratory of MIEM.
Part D:    Private Sector Framework
1.  Restructuring of CCI, and provision of training, and telecommunication
and data processing equipment.
2.  A communication and motivation campaign including periodic promotional
missions in each Faritany an information campaign in local media, and
distribution of printed information material to promote the activities of
the private sector.
3.  Establishment of an investment promotion center and provision of
equipment therefor.
Part E:    Development of Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises
1.  Scholarships for overseas in-plant training and in-company visits of SME
entrepreneurs and promoters.
2.  Feasibility studies for SME promoters.
3.  Provision of technical assistance to SMEs in management
techniques and data processing.
4.  Strengthening of the SME Assistance Unit and provision of equipment.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
    All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
Page  12
or less may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  (a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraph 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of the Project, consul-
tants shall be employed whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                  Modifications of the General Conditions
    For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
    (1) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(2)     The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be
cancelled" set forth at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
        "or (e) by the date specified in paragraph C. 3 of the Schedule to
    the Project Agreement, the Association shall, in respect of any portion
    of the Credit: (i) have received no applications or requests permitted
    under sub-paragraphs (1) or (2) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied
    any such applications or requests, the Association may, by notice to the
    Borrower, terminate the right to submit such applications or approvals
    or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with
    respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such
    notice, such amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
Page  13
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $3,000,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b) (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
               furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall
               specify.
        (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
               evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
               for the payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
               Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
               other evidence to have been made out of the Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
Page  14
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) wasnot justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
    (b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                  Actions Referred to in paragraph 3 (c)
                               of Schedule 1
1.  BCRDM has abolished individual credit ceilings for banks.
2.  The Borrower has taken adequate measures to prohibit BCRDM
staff members to be directors on boards of banks or financial institutions
which are supervised by BCRDM.
3.  BCRDM has abolished the maximum spread applicable to Sub-loans, made by
PFIs to Investment Enterprises.
4.  BCRDM has abolished its system of prior authorization of credits.
5.  The Borrower has published new Statutes of CCI, acceptable to the
Association.
