Page  1
December 12, 1991
      Mr. Blandin Razafimanjato
      Governor
      Banque Centrale de la
      Republique D6mocratique de Madagascar
      B.P. 550
      Antananarivo
      Madagascar
      Dear Sir:
      Re:   Credit No. 2104 MAG
            (Financial Sector and Private Enterprise Development Project)
            Amendments to the Proiect Agreement
           We refer to the above mentioned Project Agreement, dated
      April 4, 1990, and to your letter, dated October 3, 1991,
      regarding the possibility for free zone investment enterprises
      to be included as possible beneficiaries of Subloans under the
      above Credit.  Further to discussions held with
      representatives of the Borrower and your representatives, we
      are pleased to inform you that the Association hereby agrees
      to the following amendments to the Projcect Agreement:
      Ü     In Section 2.03 (b), the following terms "onlending the
            FMG equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit" are
            modified to read: "onlending the FMG equivalent or the
            dollar equivalent, in the case of Free Zone Investment
            Enterprises, of the proceeds of the Credit" ...
            In the Schedule, Part B. 1, the reference in the
            paragraph on Interest Rate to "Section 3.03 (a) (v)" is
            to read "Section 3.02 (a) (v)
           Please indicate your agreement to the following
      amendments by signing and dating the form of confirmation on
      the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
           We further refer to the Development Credit Agreement
      between the Borrower and the Association for the Project.  By
      separate letter, addressed to the Borrower, a copy of which is
      enclosed herewith, the Association agrees to the amendments to
      the Development Credit Agreement as set forth in said letter.
Mr. Blandin Razafimanjato                - 2 -        December 12, 1991
     It is understood that the amendments to the Project Agreement
shall come ,into force upon:   (i) confirmation of your agreement as
indicated above; (ii) confirmation of the Borrower's agreement to
the amendments to the Development Credit Agreement; and (iii)
receipt by the Association of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and of
the Participating Agreements, as amended to reflect the amendments
in this letter and in the letter to the Borrower.
Very truly yours,
Bension Varon
Acting Director
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
BANQUE CENTRALE DE LA
REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
By:
    Authorized Representative
Date: 22 Jan 1992
