E674 vol. 2
December 2002
Environmental Assessment Procedures in
MASAF
12/18/02



1. Environmental Impact Assessment in Malawi
The Malawian EnvironEmental Management Act (EMA) was passed in 1996, and sets
out the requirements for EIA in projects (type and size) and makes mandatory public
consultation during the EIA process. For prescribes activities, other approvals may
not precede EIA approval. Historically the EIA process has been donor-driven, by the
large donors requiring ElAs done.
Today the Environmental Affairs Department EAD has a separate EIA department
which deals with the EIA requirements as well as clearing/accepting the ElAs
The EMA refers only to projects, not programs, however, the EAD in practice has
looked at several programs and required them to submit ElAs as well.
2. MASAF, EIA and local level EA
MASAF I was initiated in 1995, before the EMA has come into being. It was also
classified in the Bank as a category C project, therefore not requiring an EIA
The EAD has clarified for MASAFs management that since the projects MASAF
funds are below the threshold for which ElAs are required, there is no legal Malawian
requirement for EIA in MASAF.
MASAF II, however, was classified as a category B project by the Bank, thus
requiring an EIA by the Bank. This EIA was done by an external consultant in 1998
and accepted by the Bank and by the EAD. The EIA recommended that a system for
local level environmental assessment (EA) of all sub-projects funded by MASAF was
made, and in a separate report the system was outlined, with amended project
application and appraisal forms and accompanying checklists The system was used
after 1998 in both the Public Works Component (PWP), a cash for work safety net
program self-targeting the poorest, and the Community Sub-Project Component
(CSP) which provides funds for Project Management Committees at the local level to
manage and implement their own sub-project with some assistance from the District
and from MASAF at local level.
As preparation for MASAF 3 the MASAF Management Unit (MU) initiated a review of
the EA process, in close collaboration with the local MASAF Zone offices and local
Environmental District Officers (EDO) The review showed that although local level
EA had been done in most sub-projects, the new forms had often not been used, and
written documentation of the process was scanty. It was therefore agreed to hold a
separate workshop with MASAF zonal staff, District Planning Directors (DPD) and
Environmental District Officers, as well as MASAFs directors and the EAD, to work
out a system for MASAF 3 which would better fit the conditions on the ground.
This workshop was held in Salima in August 2002, and resulted in new project
application forms with more substantial environmental content, new desk and field
appraisal forms reflecting the content of the application forms, new checklists and
suggestions for mitigation measures for all the major areas MASAF can fund sub-
projects in, as well as some checklists for commonly reoccurring environmental
problems. The Sub-project cycle for MASAF 3 was thoroughly discussed and
amended to reflect the new system for local sub-project environmental assessment.



The workshop participants and MASAF MU further agreed that
*  MASAF 3 must include more environmental information and awareness
creation in the initial information and messages which go out to the
communities,
*  The facilitators working on the initial PRA and community prioritization of sub-
projects must be trained in simple environmental problems and mitigation
measures,
*  DPDs and EDOs must agree on in which types of projects the EDO needs to
be involved in the EA and in which types the EA can be left to the other
district technical staff,
*  The checklists are generic and should be used for other community-level
projects as well as the ones funded by MASAF,
*  Mitigation measures must in all cases be costed as part of the sub-project
right from the start, by the communities, so as to avoid communities seeing
them as externally imposed components,
*  A sub-project in which the environmental part of the application form has
been inadequately filled in will not be passed for field appraisal,
*  The field appraisal will determine whether the environmental assessment is
correct and whether the mitigation measures are adequate and feasible, and
will not recommend the project for funding unless this is so,
*  The EDOs and the EAD will be responsible for monitoring the cumulative
effects of the MASAF funded projects and recommending on technology and
materials use to minimize negative environmental effects in the district.
This forms the basis for the environmental assessment system in MASAF 3.
3. Other safeguards issues
MASAF MU and the Environmental Affairs Department (EAD) have studied the
Bank's safeguard policies and created a "safeguard matrix" for internal use, showing
what aspects they consider relevant to monitor during the implementation of MASAF
3.
The only safeguard policy which is triggered in MASAF 3 is 4.01 Environmental
Assessment, which is taken care of by the environmental assessment system
described above. In relation to the other safeguards, MASAF MU and the EAD have
the information available, and will monitor any potential issues related to them. In the
case of any potential safeguards issues they will immediately alert the Bank's TTL.
There has been a discussion on potential future violations of the Safeguard policy on
Involuntary Resettlement in the case of district managed projects which, unlike a
community managed project, may span several communities. It has been agreed for
MASAF 3 that in any sub-project where local agreement is not reached on such
issues as where to place drains and culverts in a road rehabilitation project, where to
site a community reservoir, where to relocate gardens in case of disruption from a
project etc, the project will not be approved for funding This has been the policy in



MASAF 11 as well, and has resulted in some projects being rejected. MASAF 3 will
thus follow the practice from MASAF 11 and not fund any project involving involuntary
resettlement or land aquisition.
The new Government of Malawi Land Policy (January 2002) makes very clear the
responsibilities of Traditional Authorities on customary land. All dispositions of
customary land (most of the land in rural areas in Malawi) requires approval and
signature by the relevant head of the landowning group, the Chief, and an
independent member of the democratically elected Customary Land Committee as
specified under the Land policy While up until today, customary land tenure has not
been registered, district registers for registering these customary leases are being
built up and in the future family groups will be able to have registered 99 year leases
on this land. Land used for MASAF funded projects is subject to the provisions in the
.new Land Policy (soon to become an Act) and the Traditional Authority cannot
propose a project unless the community has agreed to the disposition of this land for
tree-planting, water point or new school block.
4 Environmental Assessment in the Operational Manual
MASAF 3 has an comprehensive Operational Manual, which is used by all involved
parties. It has a separate chapter on the Environmental Assessment system, which is
here enclosed. The Operational Manual is readily accessible in MASAF's Zonal
offices, and used by MASAF and District staff during design and appraisal. This
system not only safeguards the Bank's safeguards, but also mainstreams
environmental considerations and planning into the District- and Community level
planning system. In addition, specific information on the EA system is integrated into
relevant other chapters in the Operational Manual, such as:
* 3 4B, 4.5 3, 6.2, 6.3, 6.3.2(the appraisal process),
*  6 3.5(the implementation process),
* 6.3 6(Monitoring and Supervision).



