Report No. PID11044
Project Name                     MALAWI-Third Social Action Fund (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other social services (100%)
Project ID                       P075911
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Implementing Agency
Address MALAWI SOCIAL ACTION FUND MANAGEMENT UNIT, OPC
Malawi Social Action Fund Management Unit,
Office of the President and
Cabinet
Address: MASAF MU, Red Cross House, Lilongwe 3
Tel: 265 775-666
Fax: 265 771-676
Email: skakhobwe@masaf.org
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 20, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              March 31, 2003
Bank Approval Date               May 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world, ranked 170th out of
174 countries in the 2000 UNDP Human Development Report, with a GNP per
capita of US$180. An estimated 65.3% of the population is below the
poverty line, with poverty being endemic and widespread in the rural and
peri-urban areas. It is estimated that 66.5% of the rural population is
below the poverty line with, 28.2% living in dire-poverty. The Malawi
Integrated Household Survey of 1998 reported that about 54.9% of urban
population live below the poverty line. Illiteracy levels are high,
estimated at 40.8% (36.2% males and 54.79 females). Life expectancy is
estimated at 37 years while infant and child mortality rates are estimated
at 104 and 189 per 1,000 respectively, and the maternal mortality rate has
more than doubled between 1992 and 2000: from 620 to 1,200 per 100,000.
According to the Malawi Demographic and Health Survey of 2000, an
estimated 43% of the population do not have access to safe water
supplies. Like many countries in Sub-Sahara Africa, Malawi's HIV/AIDS
prevalence rate is high:   15% nationwide, with urban rates running as high
as 23%. The HIV/AIDS Annual Report produced by the National AIDS
Commission in 2002 indicated that the pandemic has resulted in loss of
life mainly of those in the productive age groups of 15 to 49 years. AIDS
has contributed to the increase in orphans and severely strained the
resources in the household and in the public health delivery system.
The Government Decentralization Policy of 1998 called for the
establishment of elected Assemblies in district and urban centers, and
devolution of significant central Government functions in order to improve
service delivery. The four broad objectives of decentralization are to
(a) create a democratic environment and institutions for development at
the local level and facilitate the participation of grassroots in



decision-making; (b) eliminate dual administrations at the district level
with the aim of making the public service more efficient, economic and
cost effective; (c) promote accountability and good governance at the
local level in order to help Government reduce poverty, and (d) mobilize
the population for socio-economic development at the local level. The
strategy drawn up by the Ministry of Local Government in 2000 recognized
that "decentralization is a long-term process, [and] the implementation
process will cover a period of ten years divided into crash, medium, and
long-term programme", which the proposed APL phases will complement by
working with LAs in meeting benchmarks on delivering to communities within
approved sectoral guidelines.
The final draft (April 2002) of the MPRSP provides the guiding framework
for development assistance from various development partners. The overall
goal of MPRSP is to achieve sustainable poverty reduction through social,
economic and political empowerment of the poor, who would be in control of
their own development with Government and the development partners' role
being that of creating a conducive environment to reducing poverty. The
MPRSP has four pillars: (a) sustainable pro-poor economic growth to
economically empower the poor by ensuring access to credit and markets,
skills development and employment generation; (b) human capital
development for ensuring that the poor have the health status and
education to lift themselves out of poverty; (c) improving the quality of
life for the most vulnerable by providing sustainable safety nets for
those who are unable to benefit from the first two pillars; and (d) good
governance, political will and mindset which will ensure that public and
civil society institutions and systems protect and benefit the poor.
These pillars are supported by four cross-cutting issues - HIV/AIDS,
gender, environment and technology development. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF) is going to implement the MPRSP through three-year MTEF cycles, and
MASAF APL phases are synchronized with the MTEF processes as a key
strategy to assist the Government meet its MDGs within the MPRSP.
2. Objectives
To empower individuals, households, communities, and their development
partners in the implementation of measures which can assist them in better
managing risks associated with health, education, sanitation, water,
transportation, energy, and food insecurity, and to provide support to the
critically vulnerable through a variety of sustainable interventions.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Under the CDF, the Bank's strategy is to focus on activities in which it
has a comparative advantage over other donors while supporting the PRSPs
and other strategies aimed at assisting countries meet the MDGs. In the
partnership matrix for the country, the Bank has significantly placed its
focus on improving the quality of life and income of the poor under the
MPRSP and macro-economic stability. The Bank has experience in working
successfully with social funds in Malawi and elsewhere in the world. In
developing this project, the Government has taken into consideration
documentation published by the Bank and other experiences from projects
supported by the Bank, bilateral donors, and NGOs. The use of
Bank-developed Risk and Vulnerability Assessment tools in Malawi is going
to contribute to a broader and more relevant sub-project menu for
community implementation within the MPRSP and CAS framework.
-2 -



A social fund's multi-sectoral nature raises cross-cutting issues
requiring technical expertise in various sectors. MASAF is complementary
to the Local Government reform as it promotes a bottom-up demand driven
approach to development, and facilitates capacity building for districts
to implement demand-driven programs, and complements the supply side
stimulated by Local Government reforms. The Bank's technical expertise in
general, its global knowledge base, as well as past IDA-financed
operations in education, health, roads, water and sanitation sectors, put
the Bank in a unique position to assist the Government address these
cross-sectoral issues within a framework of decentralization. MASAF fits
into the Bank Country Team's new strategy of strengthening multi-sectoral
operations in social adjustment, capacity building, infrastructure, and
the CDD approach as a way of achieving the MDGs in Malawi. The experience
of MASAF I, II and now 3 is expected to influence the design of future
operations in health, education, and other service sectors so that
communities and LAs can remain at the center of service delivery; these
will support a re-alignment of sector ministries with LAs and community
structures.
4. Description
MASAF 3 - CEDP will have five components:
1. The Community Development Projects will have financing windows for (a)
Community Managed Projects (CMPs), and (b) District Managed Projects
(DMPs). This component will support demand-driven and community-based
socio-economic infrastructure, with improved facilitation to allow
communities to articulate their priority development concerns within the
social fund criteria and the District Planning Framework. DMPs will be
multi-community and require labor-intensive technologies to implement,
have a safety net element while creating assets, and managed by the LAs.
CMPs will be single community sub-projects managed by the community, who
are required to contribute a minimum of 20% of total project cost in cash
or kind. The component is based on the five Community Service Packages of
health, education, transport and communication, food security, and water
and sanitation - as defined by the various sectors and implemented by LAs,
CBOs, and communities. Eligible sub-projects are those that will deliver
a community good rather than provide individual benefit in the provision
of basic social services in health, education and water; afforestation,
terracing, community roads and bridges, community centers, food processing
technologies, energy efficiency interventions, training, and others. Once
a LA has developed a capacity (measured by pre-agreed benchmarks) to
deliver sub-projects under the DMP window, resources from the CMP window
will be transferred to the District for disbursement to PMCs - and all
such resources will be monitored through agreed benchmarks and the results
regularly published in the local press. The successful integration of CDP
into LA management will be overseen by a Joint MASAF-Local Government
Technical Team. For CMPs, the average cost of a subproject is $20,000
from IDA contribution, and the timeframe for implementing subprojects is
12 months. The average cost of DMPs is US$40,000 from IDA contributions,
where 40% of funds paid by MASAF is for unskilled labour.    All
sub-projects within the ceilings shall be appraised and approved by the
DEC (as long as they are within the district plan approved by the
Assembly) and endorsed by the LAs during their regular meetings. Any
sub-projects outside the service norms and above the sub-project average
cost shall be desk and field appraised by the respective sector supported
- 3-



by the MASAF Zone Office (ZO) and Managment Unit (MU). For these
sub-projects the National Technical Advisory Committee shall review and
approve for endorsement by the Board provided that the sub-projects are
within the funding envelope of the given district.
2. The Social Support Projects (SSP) directly target vulnerable groups
(such as widows, widowers, the aged, orphans and foster parents, the
destitute, the disabled, persons affected by HIV/AIDS and malnourished
under-fives) through NGOs and CBOs with a history of working with such
groups. The component stimulates and supports traditional coping systems,
which rely on the extended family, when foster households experience
deepening poverty after taking in vulnerable individuals. Funding is
available for the development of long-term capacity and technical
assistance to NGOs/CBOs working directly with these vulnerable groups and
foster households. Activities to be funded will depend on the specific
needs of the vulnerable group, and, based on previous experience, include
initiatives that contribute to household food and nutrition security,
support in skills provision, special training depending on needs,
provision of grants for tools and other productive assets for the
sustainability of community-level interventions, and stimulation of
productive activities for foster households. The menu of sub-projects
will expand as communities demand new and appropriate interventions in
response to changes in the nature of risks affecting foster households and
vulnerable individuals.    The sub-projects shall be appraised and approved
by a District Technical Team, comprised of the DEC and CSO/NGO/CBO
members, as long as they are within the district plan approved by the
Assembly. The sub-projects will be endorsed by NTAC for forwarding to the
Board. Funding will be contingent upon NGOs/CBOs meeting eligibility
criteria, which includes a cash, or in-kind contribution of 20t (from the
Project Implementing Agency, and the community if they are able to
contribute), and the activity falls within the sub-project menu. The
average cost of SSP sub-projects' IDA contribution is US$10,000. Any
sub-projects outside the service norms and above the sub-project average
cost shall be desk and field appraised by the respective sector supported
by the ZO and MU.
3. The Community Savings and Investments Promotion (COMSIP) will finance
community mobilization for savings, training on improved business skills,
and provision of 80t costs towards the construction of required
infrastructure for a Savings Club; but it will not provide funds for
lending. The component builds on experiences from the SSP component of
MASAF II where groups have increased their capacity to generate incomes
and used it to provide assistance to orphans and other vulnerable persons
living within households, or sometimes in community-owned facilities, and
also saved in order to meet unexpected expenses (e.g. illness). The
component will promote the formation of Community Savings and Investments
Groups (COMSIGs) of 10-15members each; with 10 COMSIGS coming together to
form Community Savings and Investments Clubs (COMSICs). The participants
will receive training and business management skills, and linked to
legally-constituted micro-finance institutions (MFIs) to ensure that the
poor operate in a viable and sustainable savings and credit environment.
The promotion of COMSIGs and COMSICs, and piloting community-MFI
interfaces will be phased to ensure that a sustainable savings and
investment framework for the poor is in place. While COMSIGS will be free
to lend to their own members in line with their rules, MASAF will also
- 4 -



provide them with information on private providers of market-driven
micro-finance services. These sub-projects managed by COMSIC PMCs have an
average cost of US$10,000 from IDA contribution. Appraisal will be
undertaken by the DEC, and, during Phase I of the Project, approvals will
be undertaken at MU level; proposed changes to the approval process will
be reviewed during the migration from Phase I to II.
4. The Development Accountability Program (DAP) is a cross-cutting
component to capacitate implementing agencies to assist Malawi in
achieving the MDG targets in a transparent and sustainable manner. It
will document and transform MASAF's experiences from working with
communities into capacity enhancement interventions which can support
various partners implementing decentralization (such as LAs), and the
MPRSP (such as NGOs and CBOs). It will develop suitable technical
guidelines, generate data from the work of communities and partner
institutions, process such data into useful information, disseminate, and
package it into suitable materials for training. This component will
develop appropriate tools for promoting community-level transparency and
accountability through a suitable development communication strategy and
equip communities with skills to demand the same from LAs and other
institutions, as well as developing a community-level monitoring system in
the implementation of Community Service Packages. It will finance the
training of MASAF staff at national and District offices, district
agencies, NGOs/CBOs and PMCs in the use of procedures, systems and
criteria developed to improve implementation. A Technical Support
Services framework will be put in place by MASAF in partnership with LAs
and respective sector ministries to ensure that norms and standards are
responsive to community capacities. Within MASAF, there will be a Senior
Engineer, 6 Zone Engineers, and LA level Technical Officers making up a
Technical Support Service responsible for quality control in all MASAF
supported infrastructure investments. Appropriate memoranda of
understanding will be entered into with those sector ministries without an
immediate devolution plan. The component will finance secretariat support
to the CDDAC, chaired by the Department of Economic Planning and
Development, to review monitoring and evaluation reports, make
recommendations to the MASAF Board, and disseminate results on community,
LA, and sector ministry performance in the implementation of Community
Service Packages and progress towards attaining the 12 MDG targets. All
MASAF activities will strengthen technical standards for improved quality,
and a system to collect, analyze, and disseminate information on progress
and impacts. This component will also develop an effective Management
Information System (MIS) which will feed into the overall Monitoring and
Evaluation system where the outputs of these sub-systems will form a
Knowledge and Information Sharing System (KISS) and make MASAF a learning
organization as it transforms into a Training and Capacity Building
Institution for the CDD approach.
5. The Institutional Development component will address the internal
capacity requirements of MASAF to deliver in a transparent and accountable
way by financing the continued provision of technically competent staff to
work at the MASAF MU, and strengthen LA Planning Offices with technical
and financial expertise. Financial accountability and community
procurement procedures already in place under MASAF II will be extended to
LAs implementing both DMPs and CMPs.   Once 80- (32) of LAs have taken over
the CDP component with their own staff, MASAF will maintain a single
- 5 -



national office, and continue to support the remaining LAs, CBOs, and
COMSICs with implementation. In the transition period, LAs will have the
option of either using its own staff, or obtaining assistance from MASAF
Zone Offices (Zones will initially be reduced from 12 to 3 with 9 Field
Offices, and then abolished). As an exit strategy for the Bank, the
project will leave behind a legal framework for the CDD approach based on
MASAF, PMCs, COMSICs, and CBOs working with LAs, communities, and sector
ministries.
1. Project components (see Annex 2):
1. Community Development Projects (CDP)
2. Social Support Projects (SSP)
3. Community Savings and Investments Promotion (COMSIP)
4. Development Accountability Program (DAP)
5. Institutional Development (ID)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $17.25
IBRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE $60.00
Total Project Cost $77.25
6. Implementation
A MASAF MU reporting to a Board of Directors (with an Executive Director
as Secretary) will continue to manage this project - the Board being
responsible for overall policy and operational guidance. MASAF Board will
oversee professional staff selected in a transparent and competitive
manner. MASAF will decentralize staff from ZOs to LA Planning Offices for
those Assemblies without the relevant staff (Program Officer and Technical
Supervisor) to assist with building LA technical and management capacity
to support communities - in line with the four options outlined above.
MASAF will enter into Memoranda of Understanding with all LAs to govern
the role of Assembly Offices, their staffing, and operations; to be
reviewed annually to take into account changes in activities. The MASAF
Board will have two standing committees at the national level to review
project requests and make recommendations (National Technical Advisory
Committee - NTAC) and to oversee monitoring and accountability results
(CDD Advocay Committee - CDDAC). For HIV/AIDS activities to be supported
in the SSP component, guidance on national norms will be sought from the
National AIDS Commission; the appraisal of HIV/AIDS applications at the
district will include representation from District AIDS Coordination
Committees.
In order to strengthen the recently established LA, MASAF will work to
address longer-term institutional and capacity concerns by facilitating
the deepening of decentralization in the country by leaving the management
of community projects to those LAs with the demonstrated capacity.     As a
vehicle for the Government to meet service provision targets through the
- 6-



CDD approach, MASAF's work will be within a legal framework defined by LA
by-laws and MASAF legal status. LAs will receive limited support from
MASAF to ensure that Participatory Rural Action processes are integrated
into district planning so that community priorities are at the centre of
district plans. In order to strengthen community empowerment within
decentralization, new operational and procurement manuals have
incorporated improved operational procedures. All sub-projects funded by
MASAF will follow specified sub-project cycles, with all implementers
reporting their performance against agreed sub-project cycle benchmarks as
specified in the Operational Manual.
All CDP requests from communities will be appraised and approved by the
LAs using its District Executive Committee (DEC), which will also receive
resources for DMPs. Funds for DMPs will continue to flow into an account
held by LAs for the creation of community assets through labor-intensive
methods while transferring incomes to vulnerable able-bodied individuals.
Technical support will be provided to address the lack of skills within
LAs in specific areas of Community Service Package provision. In the case
of CMPs, funding will continue to flow to the community elected PMC.
Those LAs who record successful implementation of DMPs will take over the
channeling of resources to PMCs.   Once 80- of LAs are successful in
implementing the CDPs using pre-agreed benchmarks, MASAF will transform
into a training and capacity building institution to support LAs overcome
periodic difficulties, promote measures for transparency and
accountability at the community and district levels, and channel resources
to CBOs and COMSICs.
Under SSP, District staff will facilitate the generation of community
priorities to tackle vulnerability (orphans, elderly, disabled,
chronically ill, malnourished, etc.). The appraisal and approval of SSP
requests within the agreed ceiling will be done by the DEC, through
District Technical Committees with NGO representation, as well as relevant
sector ministries, and LA staff.
Community Savings Groups and Clubs will be promoted by district-level
staff and supported by MASAF with capacity building, training, purchase of
safes, and limited construction of community infrastructure. MASAF will
promote community savings, work to address specific community-related
constraints in the operation of the relevant micro-finance institutions
(MFIs), and ensure that appropriate mechanisms are developed with MFIs
for the poor to have reliable and sustainable access to micro-finance.
Members of Community Savings Groups will be able to borrow from the MFI
holding their accounts (e.g. Malawi Savings Bank, existing MFI, etc.) for
investing according to individual and group priorities within a framework
of increasing household food, nutrition, and economic security to manage
risk and reduce vulnerability. Appraisail will be undertaken as in SSP,
but approval will be by the MASAF Board.
LAs will approve sub-projects within the specified thresholds for the CDP
component, and receive copies of all project requests by CBOs under the
SSP component. NTAC will be responsible for endorsing approved LA
sub-projects, approving all requests from CBOs and approving sub-projects
above the threshold set for LA approval. The NTAC will report to the
MASAF Board and will meet monthly with the MASAF MU to review sub-project
requests from LAs. After NTAC and Board meetings, MASAF MU will publish a
-7 -



list of all projects approved, their value, districts and PMC members for
increased transparency. To increase accountability, MASAF Management Unit
will submit a quarterly progress report to the Board (copies to the NTAC),
and a summary of the report will be published after the Board meeting
(with performance details for each LA and CBO receiving funds from
MASAF). Similarly, community-based monitoring reports will be reviewed by
CDDAC before their submission to the Board and publication.
7. Sustainability
Empirical evidence from MASAF I and II, and similar operations in several
other regions, point to a positive correlation between community
participation and the sustainability of sub-projects. Sustainability is
tied to the complementary roles that other projects like FIMTAP will
play. Macro-economic stability and the MPRSP place greater importance on
the Government's role in supporting basic social and economic services.
Systems and procedures have been revised in the Operational Manual, and
training of project and key LA staff will be carried out to enhance
project effectiveness. This will ensure that sub-projects with a low
probability of sustainability are not undertaken. The COMSIP and DAP
components have a particular focus on increased sustainability for project
interventions and outcomes. MASAF 3 is designed based on the convergence
between the needs of the communities and that of the government.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Over the last six years, MASAF funded community-based activities and
recorded demonstrable successes working with central government employees
based in the districts. This led to a centralized project implementation
mode, with even the decentralized PWP running into several problems
associated with the lack of adequate accountability at the district level;
although community capacity to monitor delivery resulted in relatively few
instances of non-accountability under MASAF. Since the election of LAs in
November 2001, there are indications that their demand for administrators
to be accountable has created an opportunity and space for improved
performance of MASAF and community sub-projects. Poor responses by
sector ministries to the demands of communities for sustained recurrent
funding of completed sub-projects as well as poor support to community
management of assets created under MASAF have led to the inclusion of
decentralization benchmarks in the implementation of MASAF 3 activities.
The project has engaged key sectors (such as transport, water, education,
and health) to define clear decentralized service delivery benchmarks so
that community efforts can be matched by commitments and performance from
sectors and LA. The MPRSP, MTEF and MDGs will provide the necessary
monitoring and evaluation framework for these interventions by communities
supported by LAs and sector ministries.
During MASAF I and II, communities requested funding for income generating
projects during periods of need, and, except in the component supporting
the vulnerable, these have been ineligible for funding. Experience shows
that a certain level of social capital and capacity are needed before
effective economic capital from community investment projects can be
realized. It is for this reason that the COMSIP component has been
introduced to build on experiences from MASAF I and II.
Although MASAF II funds were fully committed by the Mid-Term Review
(February 2002), the continuing and overwhelming demand by communities for
- 8 -



resources to finance community sub-projects such as school classrooms and
teachers houses, health facilities, rural water supply, and community
roads. There is still a large un-met demand for classrooms to cope with
the increased enrolment resulting from the Free Primary Education policy
implemented after 1995. Failure to adequately respond to this demand will
result in the regression of existing community capacity and social
capital. MASAF 3 will therefore continue to finance community investments
so that under-served communities which did not receive support under MASAF
I and II can also be reached, while building economic capital as the
second stage of helping poor communities tackle poverty. Under MASAF 3,
the role of PMCs, COMSIPs, and NGOs/CBOs will be institutionalized as a
foundation for the CDD approach in Malawi.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Major:   Poor communities in Malawi have already
shown an improved perception of environmental degradation when
constructing infrastructure such as school buildings, health centers and
other sub-projects eligible under MASAF II. Environmental screening,
reviews and the assessment of potential environmental impacts on
investments has been an integral part of the design, implementation,
supervision and monitoring during MASAF II, and MASAF 3 will continue this
practice and improve on it by working with LAs in environmental
institutional capacity building to ensure awareness, enforcement and
monitoring of environmental standards and guidelines as well as promoting
sub-projects aimed at improving communities' management of their natural
resources. Trees are of particular importance to communities as resources
for construction, fuel, and for soil and water conservation; and all MASAF
supported sub-projects will have a tree-planting element. The District
Development Planning Framework, MASAF 3 Operational Manual, and various
handbooks will guide the integration of environmental issues into all
community sub-projects so that community environmental protection becomes
institutionalized.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Norbert 0. Mugwagwa
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2860
Fax:   (202 473-8299
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 10 -



