ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           AWorld Frce ol Povorty
lnfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/14/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MALAWI                                  Project ID: P075911
Project: Third Social Action Fund               Task Team Leader: Norbert 0. Mugwagwa
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 3, 2003   IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 1, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m): 60.00
Managing Unit: AFTH1                            Sector: Other social services (100%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: Other social protection and risk management
Status: Lending                                 (P); Civic engagement; participation and community
driven development (P); Social analysis and
monitoring (S); Gender (S); Social risk coping (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
To build and sustain community capacity in Malawi to manage their prioritized sub-projects within a
decentralized framework; increase household incomes of core poor by their participation in a safety net
program; and promote savings and investment by poor households to ensure sustainable progress in the
fight against poverty.
Key performance indicators include (i) the number of communities with completed and functioning
sub-projects;  (ii) number of District Assemblies, civil society institutions, National Government
agencies, and other key stakeholders involved in decision-making processes at all applicable levels; (iii)
number of communities with savings and credit clubs which fund community investments; (iv) changes
in income as recorded in national surveys, and (v) improved health status and increased access to
education, water and transportation as reported in Government and other publications.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
1.     Community Development Projects (CDP)
(a) Community Sub-Projects (CSP)
(b) District Assembly Projects (DAP)
This component will combine the community and the public works (safety net) programmes from
MASAF 11 for effective integration into the District Assembly-Community management framework. The
facilitation process will be open-ended, allowing communities to articulate their priorities. Priorities that
are outside the Social Fund's menu will be linked over to other existing programs. The sub-project menu
will cater for community rather than individual benefits, and be within the approved District
Development Framework based on Village Action Plans. The menu will include i.a. construction and/or



2
ISDS
rehabilitation related to the basic provision of services in health, education and water; afforestation,
terracing,community roads and bridges, community centers, community cultural activities, food
processing technologies, energy efficiency interventions, training and others. District Assemblies will
initially manage safety-net programs, and later take over sub-projects as the Assemblies increase their
capacity.
2. Social Support Projects (SSP)
SSP targets the vulnerable groups directly through NGOs and Community Support Organisations
(CSOs). SSP will also assist NGOs/CSOs in developing capacity to support vulnerable groups in the
community. Activities will include i.a. support in skills provision through existing vocational training
facilities, and grants for tools and other productive assets.
3. Savings and Credit Promotion (SCP)
There are groups who have increased their capacity to generate incomes under MASAF 11, and these have
shown a desire to save parts of their income. There are few opportunities to save through commercial
channels. SCP will promote formation of MASAF Savings Clubs (MSCs) working with an appropriate
Micro-Finance Institution.
4. Capacity Enhancement Program (CEP)
(a) Training and capacity building.
(b) MIS, IT, and M&E
(c) Technical Support
(d) Development Communication and Knowledge Management
5. Institutional Development:
(a) Management Unit (finance, administration, HR, internal audit) strengthening.
(b) MASAF Zone Office
(c) District Assemblies.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
MASAF funds are available to people(through project management groups and through district
assemblies) in all 39 districts (including Town Councils) in the country. The program is self-targeting
and caters for the poorest groups of the population. MASAF does not fund sub-projects which
interfere with protected areas or forest reserves.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments- This is currently the recommended classification for a Social Action Fund.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    0 Yes C No    C' TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            ' Yes 0 No    C TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       C Yes * No    C, TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   C Yes 0 No    C TBD
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No    ' TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C Yes 0 No       TBD



3
ISDS
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       C Yes * No    S TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 C Yes 0 No    3 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         C Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 S Yes 0 No    C TBD
. *By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. 1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The Major environmental concern in MASAF I and II have been Malawi's general rapid loss of
forest cover, which is exacerbated by communities burning bricks as local contribution to
community construction sub-projects as well as private housing and energy needs. MASAF has
therefore initiated the use of locally made cement and stabilized soil blocks as well as increasing
the number of afforestation and community wood-lots sub-projects. Other environmental issues
are: the filling of burrow pits, proper drainage of rural access roads that are being improved and
better environmental sanitation on school sites. MASAF does not, and will not, fund projects
involving incoluntary resrttlement or land aquisition. Where community decisions are made on
for instance the siting of a wood-lot or a surface water structure, the decision will be checked
during field appraisal to make sure there was complete consensus on the choice. If consensus is
not reached, the project will not be funded.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Since Malawi is one of the most densely populated countries in Africa, the multitude of local
development projects, as well as individual households expansion activities, have contributed
greatly to the decline in forest cover due to local production of burnt bricks. MASAF is in the
process of switching from the use of burnt bricks as a community contribution to the
sub-projects, to the use of stabilised soil blocks and cement blocks. The decision on which type
of building materials to use in each location is taken by the EDO. Other long-term environmental
impacts will be positive, like afforestation, better drainage and stream-bank rehabilitation.
Long-term social effects of empowering local communities could be strengthening local
democracy.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Aside from the use of alternative types of bricks, MASAF routinely includes reafforestation in community
sub-projects where trees are disturbed. In addition, many positive environmental programs managed under
Traditional Authories, as well as the new District Assemblies have been funded under the PWP, larger
afforestation projects, rehabilitation of gullies, drainage and stream-banks, as well as environmental sanitation.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues



4
ISDS
The Project is a Social Action Fund with a Management Unit (MU) which has been in place
since 1996. In accordance with the Malawian Environmental Management Act of 1966, the
MASAF MU did a formal EIA of the project in 1998. This pointed out the need for local
environmental assessment of sub-projects at community and district levels. Guidelines for this
were produced, along with checklists for all types of sub-projects MASAF funds, both
community and public works projects. The EIA was accepted by the Department of
Environmental Affairs (DEA). The individual sub-projects MASAF funds are below the
threshold for which an EIA is required by the Malawian Environmental Management Act. The
forms communities will use for sub-project applications under MASAF 3 have been amended to
include more relevant local environmental information than in MASAF 2. The forms for desk
and field appraisal by the District Technical Officers and MASAF Zone Managers have also been
amended, to properly assess the information in the application forms. Overseeing the
environmental assessment of the sub-projects is the responsibility of the Environmental District
Officer (EDO), however, the other technical staff at district level have been trained and will
assume responsibility for assessing the environmental effects, checking proposed mitigation
measures and proposing further mitigation measures if needed. These measures are costed as part
of the sub-project before it is approved. The community checklist brings out any potentially
negative environmental effects and suggests suitable mitigation measures. This assessment is
checked at desk and field appraisal. The DEA has been responsible, with MASAFs management,
for working out the system and testing it under MASAF 2 and revising it for MASAF 3. EDOs
and District Planning Directors (DPDs) have worked in groups in amending the forms and
checklists.
Similarly, since this is a demand-driven programme, much weight is given to the aspects of
participation, transparency and social mobilisation. At field appraisal MASAF and District staff
check the process which has led to the application, and screen out any that have not fully
involved the whole community. If there is no consensus in the community about the solutions
(where the water point should be, where the school block should be, where gardens can be
relocated if needed when drainage of roads may disturb gardens) the project is not approved for
funding. MASAF 3 will not fund any project involving involuntary resettlement or land
aquisition. Community decisions on f.inst. where to have a wood-lot, will be checked during the
field appraisal, to make sure there is consensus on the solutions. The Management of MASAF is
informed about the Bank's safeguards policies and have, with the assistance of DEA, worked out
a "safeguard matrix" for MASAF 3 which will inform staff at district level on any potential
violations of the safeguards.
The current guidelines on environmental assessment in the implementation process (described in
MASAF Guidelines: Environmental Appraisal and Implementation Process) are such that
potential environmental and social problems are identified at an early stage in the sub-project
cycle, the sub-project can then be redesigned or rejected. As both has happened in MASAF 2, a
rural access road has been diverted to avoid drains disturbing gardens, and a community reservoir
rejected because the community could not reach consensus on relocating of gardens. A review of
the experiences with the process has been done by MASAF, and the MASAF 2 MTR concluded
that the guidelines and forms needed to be amended for MASAF 3, and this was done through a
workshop for MASAF zone staff, DPDs and EDOs in August 2002. The new forms and



5
ISDS
checklists will be part of the Handbooks for each project component. The full Environmental
Assessment procedure has been integrated into the formal Sub-project Project Cycle and is
described in the Operation Manual for MASAF 3.
As stated in the Operational Manual, it has been agreed that in any proposed sub-project where
local agreement is not reached on such issues that might bring about involuntary resettlement,
voluntary or involuntary physical dislocation, eviction of squatters, loss of land whether
ownership is recognized by customary land tenure or land titles, impact on cultivations and
property, loss of access to property, loss of access to natural and other economic resources, the
sub-project will not be approved for funding. This has been the policy in MASAF II as well, and
has resulted in some projects being rejected.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
MASAF sub-projects are identified and prioritized at community level with a preceding PRA
process, then appraised at district level by technical staff, including environmental and social
staff, and then discussed and approved in the elected District Assemblies. The locally elected
Project Management Committees, who manage the day-to day implementation of the community
projects report back both to the District Assemblies and to their local communities, thus ensuring
that information about the sub-projects and their environmental and social effects is spread
through the whole community. Chapter VII of the Operational Manual, Environmental
Assessment, Process and Procedures, is being disclosed.
E. Safeguards Classfifcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



6
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                10/30/2002    12/6/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            1/6/2003      12/20/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                             1/6/2003      1/9/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framnework                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why
Signed and submitted by      Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:            Norbert 0. Mugwagwa                         January 8, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Mona Gleditsch                        January 8, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                        January 9, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:     Dzingai Mutumbuka                           January 8, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
YvIiS~FEE Aci(           R    S   P        [5SH OW CA SE ]



