E674 vol.1
December 2002
CHAPTER VlI:      ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT, PROCESS
AND PROCEDURES
7.1   Introduction
Environmental concerns will be actively integrated into the project processes
to ensure that CEDP contributes to the sustainable management of the natural
habitat. To this end, an Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Strategy
(EAMS) has been instituted with a view to achieving effective environmental
assessment and mitigation in MA4SAF operations. The current EAMIdS builds on
the experiences of MASAF II in the implementation of the environmental
guidelines that wvere prepared on the basis of a programme Environmental
Impact Assessment carried out in 1998 and approved by the Government in
the same year. In the current Project, Environmental Affairs Department
(EAD) has approved that CEDP generally be implemented under the
guidelines for MASAF II
In the preparation of CEDP the Government through the Environmental
Affairs Department (EAD) and the Project Preparation Team have studied
the World Bank 's Environmental Safeguard Policies and created a "safeguard
matrix" showing what aspects are considered relevant to monitor during the
implementation of CEDP funded activities. The only safeguard policy. which
is relevant to CEDP is the Environmental Assessment, whose objective is "to
ensure that Bank-financed projects are  environmentally sound and
sustainable, and that decision making is improved through appropriate
analysis of actions and of their likely environmental impacts" In response to
this, the CEDP has developed an environmental assessment and mitigation
system and strategy wvhich is described in this Chapter. In the preparation of
CEDP Government has once again endorsed its decision that
It has been agreed further that in any proposed sub-project wvhere local
agreement is not reached on such issues that might bring about involuntary
resettlement the proposed subproject will not be approved for finding. This
has been the policv in MA SAF II as well, and has resulted in some projects
being rejected
This section describes the general Environmental Assessment and Mditigation
System and Strategy (EAMS) Specific details pertaining to Environmental
Assessment and Mitigation Measures including checklists, safeguard matrix
and appraisalforms are contained in the respective Component Handbooks.
7.2   Objectives of the Environmental Assessment Mitigation
System
The Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Framework under MA SAF seeks
to institute a consistent and effective environmental assessment and mitigation
mechanism for all MA SAF activities at the community, district and national
mmBkE



levels. Specifically, the following are the objectives of the MAASAF
environmental assessment and mitigation framework:
*  To ensure that environmental assessments are undertaken at every
Project jAfanagement sub-system level;
*  To support and empower communities to implement and monitor
mitigation measures on MA SAFffunded activities.
7.3   IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
The CEDP strategy for environmental assessment and mitigation wvill follow
and support the government environmental management plan, through
community empowerment and environmental protection. The strategy will
build on the experiences of MASAF II in applying Environmental Impact
Assessment guiidelines for sub-projects.
MA SAF will encourage community based natural resources management
projects, which might include productive projects, which use natural
resources in a sustainable way. It will also promote adoption of appropriate
environmentalfriendly technologies for use in the implementation of projects.
In addition, 1ALSAF will support capacity building and information
dissemination for communities to be aware of and be able to carry out
environmental assessment and implement mitigation measures for
environmental protection. The Strategy will include supporting projects that
contribute to the rehabilitation of the environment such as, afforestation, using
suitable tree species.
The MASAF environmental assessment and mitigation system is designed to
ensure that it is amenable for application at all levels of project management
Essentially, it wvill entail identification of activities with negative
environmental effects and the institution of measures to limit the undesirable
effects arising from project activities. Various actors at the community, district
and national levels will be responsible for environmental assessment and
mitigation on MA SAF assisted activities-see Figure lI below.
7.3.1 Integration into the Project Cycle Processes
The project cycle for each program will require that each activity supported by
MA SAF is screenedfor environmental effects and that this process is integrated
as a routine rather activity within the sub-project cycle processes. In this
connection, project application and appraisal forms have been designed to
include aspects requiring that environmental assessments are undertaken, and
that where necessary, action plans to limit the negative effects arising from
project activities are instituted Sect oral checklists that have been developedfor
each sector will also guide the environmental assessment and mitigation
planning.
2



7.3.2 Use of Sectoral Checklists
In addition to the EAD general checklists for environmental assessment,
checklists for each sector have been prepared to facilitate environmental
assessment and action planning for mitigation measures. These will ensure that
a systematic approach is followed in assessing project activities for
environmental effects. In addition, they will allow for capturing adequate
information pertaining to environmental assessment and mitigation for sub-
projects. Main features of the checklists include a detailed description of the
activities to be undertaken, potential negative effects, (environmental concerns),
mitigation measures to be undertaken and the organisation/person for each
activity.
3



Figure 11: MASAF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
KEY ACTIVITIES        PROJECT MANAGEMENT LEVEL
COMMUNITY                         DititExeso
-Environmental                                                   Workers
Assessment and planning
during sub-project
preparation
-Implementation of
mitigation measures
-Environmental monitor
-d  I    iental
Sectoral      
pole a Checklists      sA SrM
-Environmental                       CT
screening/appraisal           IMPLEMENTING                        X
-Support to community forLe
-Envilronmental monmtorlng     Nv, A 
and evaluation p                        l r   a
-Design ev ironmental e   w  b  uc
policies and procedures       MA SAFoMU, EA
-Ensure compliance with w
EAM requirements
- Environmental
monitorinsg
(a)    Commii  nith Level
To fachlitate commu nity environmental assessment at commonity level, setf-
instructive provect application  requmring  assessment  of the activity for
environiental effects will be used Extension workers such as Community
Developmtent Assistants (CDAs) will support communities using sector specific
checklists to elicit environmental related information and possible mitigation
measutres Commuinities will be informed about the importance of environmental
asses.sment ancd management, and that this aspect will be one of the key criteria
for deciding *vhether a sub-project gets funded or not.
The commuinitv ivill also be responsible for environmental monitoring once the
project is approved and under implementation. This function is expected to be
carried out jointly by Project Management Committees and Community Based
Natural Resouirces Management Committees (CBNRM).
4



(b)   District Level
At the district level, the District Executive Committee (DEC) led by the
Environmental District Officer (EDO) will appraise the project applications
from the communities at desk and field appraisal stages for environmental
effects. At desk appraisal, the DEC will screen the proposalfor information on
environmental assessment and mitigation (EAM). Applications that do not
contain information on environmental assessment will be referred back to the
communities.
At field appraisal, the DEC team conducting the filed appraisal will assess the
information contained in the application form on the environment and assess the
adequacy of mitigation measures proposed A checklist requiring the appraisal
team to include information on steps that the community went through in
conducting the environmental assessment and proposed mitigation measures is
an integral part of the field appraisal process At this stage, the DEC will go
through the community proposed action plan on environmental management
and assist the communities in strengthening the proposed mitigation measures.
Once the project is approved, the communities as well as the district and
MASAF Zone office will monitor this plan.
It is expected that the EDO will play a critical role in coordinating activities
geared at supporting communities in environmental assessment and mitigation.
The EDO   in conjunction with the MASAF Zone Manager will provide
information to MVU and EAD on environmental assessment and mitigation for
each district
(c)   National Level
At the national level, MASAF in conjunction with Environmental Affairs
Department (EAD) will be responsible for checking whether environmental
assessment for each proposed activity has been carried out or not. Where the
environmental assessment was not carried out, MASAF will request the relevant
District Assembly to ensure that the environmental assessment is carried out
before fi(nding is releasedfor that particular activity.
MASAF will also be responsible for providing targeted messages designed to
increase environmental awareness and promoting the use of alternative
technologies such as cement blocks where appropriate.
5



