                                Document of
                             The World Bank


                                                     Report No: ICR0000713




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (IDA-37820, IDA-3782A, IDA-H0450)




                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.10 MILLION
                    (US$ 32.80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               AND GRANT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.00 MILLION
                    (US$ 27.20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                   FOR A

                       THIRD SOCIAL ACTION FUND


           IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE COMMUNITY

               EMPOWERMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


                             December 23, 2008




Human Development 1
Southern Africa 2
Africa Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2008)

                             Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
                                      1.00 = US$ 0.007143
                                      US$ 1.00 = MK 140

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                         July 1 ­ June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL    Adaptable Program Loan                         MASAF I   First Malawi Social Action Fund
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                    MASAF II  Second Malawi Social Action Fund
CBOs   Community Based Organizations                  MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
CDD    Community-Driven Development                   M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
CDPs   Community Development Projects                 MFIs      Micro Finance Institutions
CMPs   Community Managed Projects                     MOF       Ministry of Finance
COMSIC Community Savings and Investment Club          MPP       Microprojects
COMSIG Community Savings and Investment Group         MU        Management Unit
COMSIP Community Savings and Investment               NACCEA    National Advocacy Committee for
       Promotion                                                Community Empowerment and
DDPF   District Development Planning Framework                  Accountability
DEC    District Executive Committee                   NCB       National Competitive Bidding
DFID   Department for International Development       NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
EPAs   Extension Planning Areas                       OPC       Office of the President and Cabinet
EU     European Union                                 PRA       Participatory Rural Appraisal
FIMTAP Financial Management, Transparency and         PWP-CCT Public Works Programme-
       Accountability Project                                   Conditional Cash Transfer
GOM    Government of Malawi                           SSP       Social Support Program
ICB    International Competitive Bidding              TAP       Transparency and Accountability
IEC    Information, Education and Communication                 Promotion
IFAC   International Federation of Accounts           UND       United Nations Development
IPF    Indicative Planning Figure                     VAM       Vulnerability Assessment Mapping
KISS   Knowledge Information Sharing System           WB        World Bank
LA     Local Authority                                ZO        Zone Office
LAMP   Local Authority Managed Project
LAMIS  Local Assembly Management Information
       System




                 Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
               Country Director: Michael Baxter
                Sector Manager: Christopher J. Thomas
          Project Team Leader: Nginya Mungai Lenneiye
             ICR Team Leader: Hardwick Tchale

                                                       MALAWI
                                  THIRD SOCIAL ACTION FUND




                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 18
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 20
 6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower............................................................... 23
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 24
 Annex 2(a): Outputs by Component............................................................................ 25
 Annex 2(b): Baseline and MASAF contributions towards Millennium Development
 Goals............................................................................................................................. 26
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support ................................................ 30
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................... 32
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 35
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 38
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 39
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 40
 Annex 10. List of Technical Research Studies Commissioned by MASAF under.... 41
 Annex 11. Allocation of MASAF III resources to LAs.............................................. 42
 MAP. IBRD 31130 ...................................................................................................... 44

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Third Social Action
Country:                Malawi                Project Name:
                                                                     Fund (MASAF III)
                                                                     IDA-37820,IDA-
Project ID:             P075911               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     3782A,IDA-H0450
ICR Date:               12/23/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:              THE REPUBLIC OF
                                                                     MALAWI
Original Total
                        XDR 44.1M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 44.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Malawi Social Action Fund Management Unit, Office of the President and Cabinet
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/24/2002    Effectiveness:       04/08/2003          04/08/2003
Appraisal:             03/25/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/30/2002    Mid-term Review:     02/01/2006          01/30/2006
                                     Closing:             12/31/2006          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                 10                 10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector            10                 10
Micro- and SME finance                                           10                 10
Other social services                                            60                 60
Roads and highways                                               10                 10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Gender                                                         Secondary        Secondary
Other social protection and risk management                     Primary          Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary          Primary
Social analysis and monitoring                                 Secondary        Secondary
Social safety nets                                             Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Michael Baxter                     Hartwig Schafer
Sector Manager:           Christopher J. Thomas              Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Nginya Mungai Lenneiye             Norbert O. Mugwagwa
ICR Team Leader:          Nginya Mungai Lenneiye
ICR Primary Author:       Hardwick Tchale



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To empower individuals, households, communities, and their development partners in
the implementation of measures which can assist them in better managing risks
associated with health, education, sanitation, water, transportation, energy and food

insecurity, and to provide support to the critically vulnerable through a variety of
sustainable interventions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   (1) Proportion of individuals living on less than $1 a day.
Value
quantitative or 55%                        44.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2000                   12/31/2007
                This was not determined, but the current Welfare Monitoring Survey indicates

Comments        that the poverty headcount has reduced from 52% to 40%. Such reduction in

(incl. %        poverty cannot all be attributed to MASAF interventions under the APL 1.

achievement)    However, under the APL1, a total of 815,557 persons were employed and
                received US$14.6 million in wages. Over 1.5 million people had access to socio-
                services.
Indicator 2 :   Grade 1 children (5) reaching grade 5.
Value
quantitative or 20%                        48%                  90%           73%
Qualitative)                                                   (for 2015)

Date achieved 01/01/2000                   12/31/2007

Comments        238,438 pupils in primary school every term; Primary school facilities tracked

(incl. %        by: 471 classroom blocks, 462 toilets, 10 offices, 80 water boreholes, 65

achievement)    woodlots, 118 teacher houses and 273 functioning school committees and Parent
                Teacher Associations.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Population with improved access to social services (water, health, education, etc)
Value
(quantitative   0                          494,000              N/A           1,594,857
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2000                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The number of people that have directly been reached under the various

achievement)    interventions implemented under MASAF 3 APL 1.

Indicator 2 :   Persons with employment from PWP-LAMPs
Value
(quantitative   0                          72,000               N/A           141,975
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2000                   12/31/2007

Comments
(incl. %       Achievement on regular LAMP only.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Persons with employment from PWP-CCT
Value
(quantitative  0                          314,361           N/A          673,582
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2000                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement on PWP-CCT beneficiaries only (for both 2005 and 2007

achievement)   operations).

Indicator 4 :  Households reached with assistance under SSP and PWP
Value
(quantitative  0                          90,000            72,000       75,336
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2000                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Benefits from outputs in completed SSPs.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Persons participating in savings groups
Value
(quantitative  0                          96,000            8,000 savings8,392 groups
or Qualitative)                                             groups

Date achieved 01/01/2000                  12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       These are savings groups comprised of 10-15 members each.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                        IP             Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     10/23/2003          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     04/28/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  6.00
  3     10/27/2004          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  6.92
  4     05/05/2005          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 16.31
  5     12/13/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              48.73
  6     05/08/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              61.90
  7     11/16/2006          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 61.90
  8     06/28/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 64.80
  9     12/28/2007          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 64.80



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.       At the time of appraisal, Malawi was rated one of the poorest countries in the
world and was ranked fourth from the bottom by the United Nations (UN Human
Development Report 2000). An estimated 65 percent of the population was living below
the poverty line, and poverty was seen to be endemic in rural and peri-urban areas,
according to the Malawi Integrated Household Survey conducted in 19981. Social
welfare indicators were poor: high illiteracy (about 41 percent; 36.2 percent for men and
54.7 percent for women), life expectancy estimated at 37 years while infant and child
mortality rates were estimated at 104 and 189 per 1000 live-births, respectively.
Maternal mortality had more than doubled from 620 to 1,200 per 100,000 between 1992
and 2000. An estimated 43 percent of the population lacked access to safe and portable
water (Malawi Demographic and Health Survey 2000). Malawi also faced high rate of
HIV/AIDS incidence, estimated at 15 percent and this resulted in loss of life of people in
the productive age group of 15 to 49 years, consequently contributing to an increase in
orphans (National AIDS Commission 2002)2.

2.       The Malawi Government, in a bid to address these social welfare and
development challenges launched the Community Empowerment and Development
Programme (Third Social Action Fund) in 2003 as an instrument of achieving sustainable
poverty reduction. The project was designed within the context of the Malawi Poverty
Reduction Strategy adopted in 2002 and was therefore in line with the Government
service delivery reforms aimed at achieving sustainable poverty reduction.

1.2 The Historical Context of Social Fund Projects in Malawi

3.       Malawi started implementing the first generation social fund project (MASAF I)
in 1995 with a US$ 56 million IDA credit. Government envisaged to use MASAF as an
instrument of achieving broad-based poverty reduction as stipulated in the Poverty
Alleviation Plan unveiled in the same year. MASAF I was implemented between 1995-
2000, but when funds were fully committed, a successor project, MASAF II, was
initiated with another IDA credit worth US$ 66 million, which ran from 1998-2002. As
such, between 1995-2002, the Government invested a total of US$ 122 million in
community infrastructure in education, health, water supply and sanitation, postal
services, markets, roads, bridges and other rural access infrastructure. It is estimated that,




1The 2004/05 Integrated Household Survey estimated the poverty level at 52 percent and more recently,
the National Statistical Office, based on results from the Welfare Monitoring Survey has reported that
overall poverty level has reduced to 40 percent.

2HIV/AIDS prevalence is also reported to have declined to 12 percent.




                                                       1

as a result of the community investments, a total of 5.8 million people had increased
access to social services through MASAF I (1995-2000) and MASAF II (1998-2002).
(see Figure 1).

Figure 1: Map of Malawi showing locations of projects and concentration of
beneficiaries of MASAF I and II.




Source: Malawi: An Atlas of Social Statistics, National Statistical Office, 2002.

4.      In order to consolidate achievements of MASAF I and II, the Government of
Malawi decided to implement the Community Empowerment and Development Program
as an operational framework for the 2002 Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy. The aim
was to continue with interventions to assist the Government to incrementally attain
sustainable poverty reduction at the community level.




                                              2

5.      MASAF III was therefore designed as a three-phased program to be implemented
over a 12-year period. Each phase, called an Adaptable Programme Loan (APL), was
aimed at addressing specific challenges undermining effective service delivery, so that
communities could progressively move towards the attainment of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs). The design of APL 1 was synchronized with a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework and a Community Demand-Driven (CDD) approach being
the key instruments for achieving sustainable poverty reduction within a decentralized
governance environment.

1.3 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

6.      The development objective of MASAF III APL I was: "to empower individuals,
households, communities, and their development partners in the implementation of
measures which can assist them in better managing risks associated with health,
education, sanitation, water, transportation, energy and food insecurity, and to provide
support to the critically vulnerable through a variety of sustainable interventions".

7.      Specifically, the project was aimed at integrating the community empowerment
processes into district planning and deliver community service packages to better align
communities, CBOs/NGOs and LAs with the District Development Planning Framework
(DDPF).

8.      The key performance indicators included: (a) the number of households with
improved service access and status (health, water, sanitation, education); (b) number of
LAs and CBOs/NGOs implementing interventions compliant with the CDD approach;
and (c) number of households with measurable cash incomes from Local Authority
Managed Projects (LAMPS), Social Support Program (SSP), and Community Savings
and Investment Promotion (COMSIP); all towards meeting 12 MDG indicator targets.

1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9.      The PDO and key performance indicators were not revised.

1.5 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The main project beneficiaries were: (a) poor communities with inadequate access
to social services such as schools, clinics, water, and effective transport; (b) poor
households experiencing food insecurity; (c) vulnerable individuals unable to organize
interventions for themselves and needing the mediation of CBOs/NGOs; (d) communities,
who after participating in MASAF activities, are able to participate in group savings; (e)
implementing agencies such as PMCs, COMSICs, NGOs/CBOs, micro-finance
institutions, and LAs. The project was meant to strengthen the capacity of communities,
community leadership, and CBOs to effectively implement activities aimed at addressing
their development needs through improved access to social services. The project was



                                              3

targeted to reach nearly two-thirds of Malawi's poor population whose work would
contribute to the achievement of the 12 MDG targets for Malawi.

1.6 Original Components (as approved)

11.      MASAF III APL I had five components described in the Project Appraisal
Document as follows:

         (i)      Community Development Projects (CDPs): This comprised financing
                  windows for Community Managed Projects (CMPs) and LAMPs. The
                  component supported demand-driven and community-based socio-
                  economic infrastructure. This was meant to build the capacity of
                  communities to articulate their priority development concerns within the
                  social fund criteria and the DDPF. For CMPs and LAMPs, the average
                  support from IDA was US$20,000 and US$40,000, respectively.
                  Community contributions were normally required in kind in form of local
                  materials and labour. At appraisal, the estimated cost for this component
                  was US$ 28.48 million, but the actual cost was US$ 36.83 million (see
                  Annex 1(a)).

         (ii)     The Social Support Program (SSP): This component directly targeted
                  vulnerable groups3 through NGOs/CBOs to stimulate and support
                  traditional coping systems. Activities that were funded through this
                  component varied depending on the specific needs of the vulnerable
                  groups and the nature of the risks affecting them. The average cost of
                  IDA's contributions to SSPs was US$10,000, and could not exceed
                  US$30,000. At appraisal, the estimated cost of this component was US$
                  24 million, but the actual cost was US$ 19.94 million.

         (iii)    The Community Savings and Investment Promotion (COMSIP): This
                  component was used to finance community savings mobilization through
                  provision of business skills training and provision of 80% of the costs
                  towards the construction of infrastructure required for Savings Clubs. The
                  component built on the experiences from the SSP component of MASAF
                  II where groups had increased their capacity to generate incomes which
                  they used to provide assistance to orphans and other vulnerable groups.
                  COMSIP also facilitated the formation of Community Savings and
                  Investment Groups (COMSIGs) and 10-15 such groups would form
                  COMSICs. This facilitated the sustainable income generation among
                  vulnerable members of the community. At appraisal, the estimated cost
                  for this component was US$ 11.87 million, but the actual cost was US$
                  2.12 million.


3Including, but limited to, widows/widowers, aged, orphans and foster parents, destitute, disabled, persons
affected by HIV/AIDS and malnourished under-five children.




                                                   4

      (iv)   Transparency and Accountability Promotion: This was a cross-cutting
             component aimed at enhancing the capacity of implementing agencies to
             assist Malawi in achieving the MDG targets in a transparent and
             sustainable manner. The component financed training of MASAF staff,
             LA staff, NGO/CBO staff and members of Project Management
             Committees (PMCs) in the use of procedures, systems and criteria for
             improved project implementation. The component was also aimed at
             establishing the Technical Support Services Framework and provided
             financial support to the Secretariat for the National Advocacy Committee
             for Community Empowerment and Accountability (NACCEA). The
             component was also aimed at developing an effective management
             information system (MIS). The MIS would feed into the overall
             monitoring and evaluation system where the output from various project
             components would form a knowledge and information sharing system
             (KISS). It was envisaged that through the KISS, MASAF could be a
             learning organization and a provider of training and capacity building on
             CDD approach to development stakeholders in Malawi. At appraisal, the
             estimated cost for this component was US$ 6.67 million, but the actual
             cost was US$ 6.65 million.

      (v)    Institutional Development: This component was aimed at addressing the
             capacity requirements of MASAF to deliver community development and
             related services in a transparent and accountable way. The component
             supported the provision of technically competent staff to MASAF MU and
             strengthened LAs capacity to implement community sub-projects using
             financial accountability and community procurement procedures put in
             place under MASAF II. The initial cost estimate for this component was
             US$ 7.06 million, and the actual cost was US$ 11.31 million.

1.7 Revised Components

      (vi)   Project components were not revised, but the CDP, in particular the
             LAMPS component, was broadened as a result of the scaling-up of the
             Public Works Programme ­ Conditional Cash Transfer (PWP-CCT).

1.8 Other significant changes

      (vii)  In response to the nation-wide food shortages as a result of the 2004/05
             drought, Government implemented an emergency response, the PWP-CCT
             within the LAMPS component of MASAF III APL I. The total resources
             made available for this emergency operation were US$12.1 million and
             most of these resources were reallocated from the COMSIP component.




                                           5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

12.     Project design and implementation were affected by a number of factors which
included (a) slow start of the project after effectiveness due to delays in disbursements
and (b) low initial levels of justification for resources disbursed at the local level. Other
factors that emerged during the implementation process included, but perhaps not limited
to: (a) the political campaign of 2003 taking up most of the nation's attention; (b) the
2004/2005 drought; (c) high staff attrition levels especially at the project MU after 2006;
(d) lack of standardized procedures for project implementation at the LA level; and (e)
the slow pace of decentralization.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

13.     The Quality of Supervision Assessment indicated that the project design at entry
was moderately satisfactory. Although the project design was largely based on the
success of MASAF I and II, it was noted that it underestimated the difficulty of handing
operations over to the LAs. However, MASAF MU increased its follow-up and
supervision of LAs to address this challenge. As such, project implementation was not
affected as LAs were able to pick up their responsibilities.

14.     The project started on a slow note. Some of the early delays were due to the steep
learning curve given that stakeholders needed adequate time to internalize the CDD
design and operational principles and instruments. This was also exacerbated by the 10-
months delay in disbursements that coincided with the run-up to the Presidential and
Parliamentary elections; followed by some political uncertainty after the elections. As
such, MASAF MU had to start using its own resources when it proved difficult to
mobilize project resources to start project implementation. It is not clear from the project
supervision documents whether the delay in the flow of funds was due to the Bank or
lapses in the Government. However, given that project effectiveness coincided with an
election year, political issues must have taken precedence.

15.     The other factor that affected project progress in its early stages was the low
justification of community disbursed resources. This affected the pace of disbursement
of community funds. Following recommendations from implementation support
missions, the project intervened with a contingent strategy of deploying Justification
Assistants and Auditors at various points to speed up justification rates. This resulted in
improving justification rates from 24 percent in mid 2006 to 80 percent by the end of
March 2007 and subsequently, the rate increased to 84 percent by September 2007. Such
turn-around was attributed to the pro-activeness of the implementation support missions
by both the Government and Bank teams.

2.2 Implementation

16.     Prior to 2005, overall implementation was rated Satisfactory by Quality
Assurance Group. However, a number of challenges emerged thereafter. First, the



                                                6

project had to confront the need for emergency drought response in 2005 which required
the scaling-up of the public works program at short notice. Government responded by
rolling-out the PWP-CCT which provided a wage which communities used primarily to
buy food and agricultural inputs. Due to the provision of consumption smoothing during
the lean period, the PWP-CCT acted as timely incentive for communities to participate in
community development work. However, although the rolling out of the PWP-CCT was
a timely intervention, its downside effect was that it placed enormous pressure on the
project to meet huge demand in terms of capacity and coordination that was not originally
envisioned at design. Some re-prioritization had to be done to accommodate the scaling-
up of the PWP-CCT. In spite of these challenges, the PWP-CCT program stimulated LA
capacities and the demonstrated abilities paved the way for MASAF III APL II design as
a mainstreamed operation through LA with new approach to Inter-Governmental Fiscal
Transfer Systems. The rolling out of the PWP-CCT was seen by many stakeholders,
including donors, as having been implemented in an effective manner and the
Government was hailed for the role it played, through MASAF 3 APL I, in averting
imminent hunger in a well coordinated and effective way.

17.     Secondly, implementation was affected by significant staff turn-over towards the
end of the APL I. This occurred due to uncertainties regarding the continuity of the
project into a new phase (APL II). The MASAF MU was reduced to less than half its
normal size and all Justification Assistants, except four had left by December 2006. This
affected smooth completion of the final activities under the APL I. The down-sizing of
staff towards the end was consistent with the design of the project. As part of scaling-
down, the project was designed to cut down the number of zones from 12 to 3 (with a
total of 9 field offices). The implementation of the strategy towards scaling down was
however not well planned to avoid creating unnecessary pressure on the remaining staff.
Government and the Bank could have strategized early enough on how to retain some of
the critical capacity to avoid disrupting smooth completion of the APL 1 and the
continuity of MASAF into the next APL.

18.     Thirdly, implementation was affected by the lack of standardized procedures for
project implementation and coordination with other projects at the LA level. The
supervision of MASAF funded sub-projects was somehow affected because LA staff
were more responsive to high daily subsistence allowances provided by projects
supported by other development partners. The multiplicity of different project
implementation and reporting procedures also strained the already low levels of capacity
in some LAs. This is a key issue requiring the streamlining of procedures and
requirements related to the overall management of development aid in Malawi.
Government is already, through the Debt and Aid Coordination of the Ministry of
Finance taking positive steps to address this systemic challenge.

19.     Fourthly, project implementation was affected by the delay in the provision of
counterpart funds. In spite of several reminders by various supervision missions, a
greater proportion of the counterpart funds were made available towards the end of the
project. This has led to considerable delays in the implementation of some project




                                              7

activities. However, the flexibility in the design and exchange rate gains allowed the
project to meet its targets without difficulty.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

20.     The M&E system design was technically sound. All the required systems for a
functioning M&E framework were in place such as data capture, analysis and feedback
mechanisms. The system also allowed for a vibrant linkage between the LAs and the
MASAF MU where information was analyzed and reports were produced and
disseminated.

21.     However, the functionality of the system was in some cases constrained by
systemic technical capacity gaps at the LA level. APL I inherited a relatively weaker
M&E capacity from the previous MASAF II. As such there were delays to fully
operationalize the framework especially at the LA level. In some cases, LAs had a lot of
challenges to institutionalize the Local Assembly Management Information System
(LAMIS) and ensure regular capturing of data. In most LAs, the LAMIS was normally
updated by the Justification Assistants. Although training on LAMIS was provided to
other relevant staff, it was difficult to catch up with the backlog of data. This problem
was somehow addressed when Government hired M&E Specialists that were deployed to
all the LAs. However, due to their many commitments, it still proved difficult for the
LAs to ensure regular update of the LAMIS. In some cases the LAMIS was not instituted
into the LA system, as it was treated as a tool for managing MASAF projects. As such,
continuity of data capture and linkage to the MASAF MU became a challenge after most
of the Justification Assistants had left the project.

22.     As such, due to limited capacity and institutionalization of the M&E system at the
LA level, the sustainability of utilizing the system for effective management of projects at
the LA level remains a challenge.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

23.     There were no major challenges that affected the project's compliance to
fiduciary issues. The financial management system worked very well and there were no
major disbursement lapses that were experienced. The only challenge relates to some
lags in the justification of LA and community funds especially towards the end of the
project when most Justification Assistants were winding up their activities. However,
arrangements were put in place to sort out this issue and by September 2007, 84 percent
to the funds disbursed to LAs and communities had been accounted for. Intermingling of
project funds and some sub-project cost over-runs were identified in a few LAs (as
reported at Mid Term Review). This could result in distorting fund accountability and
create room for fraud. However, punitive corrective measures were put in place to check
such practices.

24.     Auditing arrangements for projects funds worked very well, involving both
internal and external auditors, in collaboration with the National Local Government



                                                8

Finance Committee. MASAF also had a working arrangement with the Anti-Corruption
Bureau to curb corruption through the use of appropriately packaged Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) campaigns.

25.      There were also no procurement challenges that were experienced especially at
the MASAF MU. However, there were some challenges at the LA and community level.
For example, some PMCs faced a number of challenges that included inflated material
prices and supply of wrong materials by unscrupulous suppliers and service providers. It
was also noted that in some cases, such problems arose due to poor facilitation by some
officials especially when it came to procurement of goods and services with complex
technical specifications. In such cases, functionality and sustainability of some projects
has been a key challenge.

26.      Compliance with environmental safeguards was noted as a systemic challenge
during project implementation. There was low priority given towards the implementation
of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) at both the LA and community level. This
was due to lack of follow-up by LA staff because of staffing constraints and difficulties
in accessing resources. This resulted in low appreciation by communities of the
importance of implementing mitigation measures. This issue was noted by both the Bank
and Government during supervision, and appropriate steps were taken to address it
through aggressive awareness campaigns throughout the sub-project cycle coupled with
close follow-up by relevant sector staff. However, the problem of compliance persisted
till the end of this phase of the program. This poses a risk in terms of the sustainability of
the project's development outcomes. However, in the follow-up APL II, adequate
attention has been given towards the design of simple and appropriate CDD
environmental procedures with clear criteria and standards for screening sub-projects and
putting in place workable plans for implementing mitigation measures.

27.      There were no cases of down-side social risks such as elite capture, rent seeking
and adverse behavior related to community accountability and transparency. This may
have been the result of proper sub-project governance systems at the local level through
transparent choice and clear terms of reference for the Project Management Committees.
Furthermore, there was adequate capacity building on community accountability.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

28.      The design of MASAF envisaged that it will be implemented within a
decentralized governance framework, where LAs would be comprised of elected officials
who would be supported by Government staff. However, although some form of
devolution has occurred in a few sectors, the Decentralization Policy itself has not fully
and practically been rolled out. As such the existence of less than fully devolved entities
appears to impede effective functioning of the LAs. Although the Project has built
capacity at the LA among the employed officials, lack of progress on decentralization
poses significant institutional challenges in terms of sustaining the capacity that has been
built through the project mainly in terms of the maintaining efficiency and accountability
of service delivery at the LA level. The risk arises from the lack of continuity given staff



                                              9

changes, dual reporting of sector staff between the LA and central authorities and the
associated challenges in transferring skills to the elected officials once they are in place.
Furthermore, the LAs are yet to transform into solid management entities that can
effectively take on the responsibilities associated with full-scale decentralization
(political, fiscal and administrative).

29.     The slow pace of decentralization has however not adversely affected project
implementation and the achievement of the PDO because the MASAF MU continued to
provide support to LAs to ensure that the sub-projects were delivered and that the
capacities were imparted even in the absence of elected LAs. However, considering the
systemic capacity challenges at the LA, it is likely that the delivery of community sub-
projects will be affected in terms of quality and meeting completion targets, in the
absence of continued support.

30.     The experiences in the implementation of MASAF III APL 1 have been
instrumental in informing the design of the next phase of the project which has since been
approved by the Bank's Board and is only awaiting effectiveness.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

31.     The project objective and design of the components were not changed throughout
the implementation of the project largely because of their relevance to the development
challenges of the country and that the project was conceptualized within the country's
own poverty reduction strategy. Furthermore, there were thorough and intensive
preparations and consultations that also benefited from the experience and knowledge
gained in previous phases of the project. The project gained momentum and good-will
among the development partners and was also in line with, and strengthened the
mechanisms, for the country's Decentralization Policy and implementation framework.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

32.     Achievement of the MASAF III APL I is rated Satisfactory, as measured through
the set of outcome/impact indicators. The detailed project performance on these
indicators is highlighted in Annex 2(a). The impact of the APL I on the achievement of
the 12 selected MDG indicators could not be clearly determined. It is important to note
that the project's impact on the selected MDG indicators relates to the entire 12-year APL
program. The APL I has contributed towards some intermediate outcomes required to
reduce poverty such as: community empowerment; increased social capital and expanded
social service delivery; and improved livelihoods. Each of these is elaborated in more
detail in the next sub-sections.




                                              10

Community Empowerment

33.     One of the strongest achievements of the project was its dynamic interaction with
communities in capacity building and fostering ownership and transparency. This
resulted in an increased number of sub-projects implemented at the community and
district levels. The project managed to integrate community empowerment processes into
district planning and delivery of community service packages. Tapping on experiences
from MASAF I and II, the APL I contributed towards the alignment of communities,
NGOs/CBOs and LAs with the DDPF in a number of ways. First, as reported by the final
project evaluation, the project has had a positive influence on the performance of Local
Assemblies in social service delivery. The introduction of new project delivery systems,
including the community-based procurement and accountability systems, such as
Extended-PRAs and community score cards, helped to develop a cadre of community-
based project managers, accountants, procurement specialists and artisans. Secondly, and
more importantly, the application of sector norms and standards to community sub-
projects through the "community service package" mechanism helps to ensure an
effective synchronization of the top-down and bottom-up approaches to development.
All these have assisted to enhance the capacity of the LAs and communities to delivery
social services and development projects in a more efficient and cost-effective manner.

Access and Use of Social Services

34.     MASAF III APL I has made an important contribution towards the provision of
social and economic infrastructure. Beneficiaries attribute a number of social welfare
improvements directly to the project, largely through the CMPs, LAMPs and SSPs. For
instance, through better health infrastructure such as construction of clinics and better
opening up of tertiary and feeder roads, including bridges, communities are able to access
health services all year round. As a result, beneficiaries attribute reduced levels of
maternal mortality partly to the project interventions. Some of the notable project
contributions, as mentioned by communities, include the reduction in the distances to
nearest pick-up points for agricultural products destined for the market, improved access
to school especially among young children, many of whom used to fail to attend classes
during the rainy season for fear of drowning in streams that did not have bridges across
them. The project has also contributed to community empowerment especially that of
women, according to the beneficiary feedback generated through the community score
card process undertaken in 2005. This has long-term human capital development
implications.

Food Security and Incomes

35.     On incomes and food security of the poorest segments of the communities,
through the CCT, the project managed to secure the livelihoods of over 670,000
vulnerable community members. An analysis of the expenditure patterns show that the
earnings from the CCT wages were mainly used for purchasing fertilizer and seed (68%
and five percent, respectively), maize for immediate consumption (25 percent) and other
seed for pulses, mostly groundnuts (one percent) and beans (one percent). Most of the



                                             11

beneficiaries of the CCT reported a three ­ four fold increase in their crop production as a
result of applying the inputs bought with the cash transfers. This has obvious long-term
benefits on the nutritional status of both the parents and children. Through COMSIP,
over 8,300 groups were formed and provided capacity in generating savings and
investment towards the betterment of their livelihoods. This has created an opportunity
to open up the communities to micro-finance institutions thereby bringing rural
communities to directly participate in mainstream economic activities.

Project contribution towards achievement of MDGs

36.     MASAF III APL I was also aimed at assisting communities and LAs in the
achievement of the 12 MDG indicator targets for Malawi. It should be understood that
this long-term goal relates to the entire 12 year APL which was expected to coincide with
the target of attaining the MDGs by 2015, by which time it was expected that LAs would
have completely taken over the implementation of CDD investments. Within the APL I,
the goal was to attain at least 70% of the LAs with baseline data and targets for the 12
MDG indicators. In addition, at least 70% of the LAs were supposed to have developed
five fully costed service packages and that LAs would develop by-laws to register CBOs
that would help in the implementation of activities towards the achievement of the MDGs
at the community level. All of the 40 LAs had fully satisfied these triggers by the end of
the APL I's implementation. As such, on the basis of the key impact indicators (the
triggers), MASAF III APL I contribution towards the achievement of the MDGs within
the targets set for APL I has been satisfactory. However, the direct impact of the APL I
and the improvements in the 12 selected MDG targets has not been clearly measured.

37.      Overall, the project has managed to assist communities to achieve intermediate
outcomes that will contribute towards closing the service gaps related to education, water,
sanitation, transport, communication and food security. In total over 1.5 million people
have directly been reached under various interventions implemented during the course of
APL I's implementation. If Government and other stakeholders, including the newly
approved APL II, continue to build upon and consolidate the achievements of the APL I,
it is highly likely that the country will make remarkable progress towards the
achievement of the MDGs. The progress on the MDGs, and the project's contribution are
presented as an addendum to Annex 2(b).

3.3 Efficiency

38.     The efficiency of project delivery under MASAF III APL I was assessed using a
rather detailed cost-effectiveness analysis that was undertaken as part of the impact
evaluation. Conventional measures of economic viability or efficiency such as net
present value and internal rate of return were not computed at appraisal due to the
challenges associated with the identification and valuation of project activities ex-ante.

39.     The assessment of cost-effectiveness was undertaken by comparing the unit costs
of MASAF infrastructure such as classrooms, roads and other community level structure,




                                              12

against those of similar projects implemented by other development stakeholders such as
for example, Department for International Development (DFID) and European Union
(EU). In general, the results indicated that MASAF sub-projects were delivered more
cost-effectively compared with projects supported by other stakeholders. Moreover, the
overheads/administrative costs of MASAF were also much lower compared to those of
other projects that implemented similar sub-projects. Some fairly detailed aspects of the
cost-effectiveness analysis are highlighted in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

40.     The achievement of the development objective is Satisfactory. The development
objective was seen to be clear, realistic and was inline with both the Country Assistance
Strategy of 2003 (Report No. 25906 MAI) and the Government of Malawi's Poverty
Alleviation Program. Given the prevailing high levels of poverty, the project played a
pivotal role to improve communities' access to socio-economic services. Through the
income generating activities implemented under SSP, and the savings and investment
promotion under COMSIP, the project achieved remarkable economic empowerment.
Moreover, the project objective was well aligned to the decentralization policy through
its support to local government capacity building. As such, strengthening the capacities
of LAs and communities for effective local development management remains relevant in
facilitating the achievement of efficient service delivery.

41.     During the internal review meeting for the draft ICR, reviewers felt that the
revised ratings on safeguards compliance, risk to development outcomes and borrower
performance should be reflected in the down-grading of the PDO as well. However,
upon further consideration by the team, it was decided that since the PDO and
implementation do not seem to have greatly been affected, the team felt there was no
justification to down-grade the PDO. Moreover, since various phases of the APL build
upon each other, APL II and III will probably make up for the deficiencies identified in
APL I.

42.     The implementation support missions of December 2005 and May 2006 down-
graded the ratings for both the DO and IP to Moderately Satisfactory primarily due to the
problems related to project management and the continued delays in the release of
counterpart funds. The ratings were brought back to Satisfactory during the November
2006 mission when agreements were reached on the release of counterpart funding and
project management issues. The ratings have been maintained at Satisfactory until the
closure of the project. While we agree that both DO and IP are Satisfactory, the decision
to upgrade as early as November 2006 could not have been based on Government's full
payment of the counterpart funding because there were still substantial arrears
(amounting to MK501 million) up until May 2007. As such, the ICR team felt that the
up-grading of the rating should have been done much later.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



                                             13

43.     The poverty, gender and social development impacts were achieved through
intermediate outcomes attributed to project activities implemented under the CDP, SSP
and COMSIP components.

44.     Poverty Impacts: Under the LAMPs, a total of 815,557 people, about 83
percent, benefited from the wages received under the PWP-CCT and about 17 percent
benefited from the regular operations. The total amount of money disbursed in wages
amounted to US$ 14.6 million. This component resulted in rehabilitating 3,392 km of
rural roads and the outcome was the increased accessibility of socio-economic services
from very remote areas that would otherwise remain detached from socio-economic
activities. Other outcomes include an improvement in food security as a result of
agricultural inputs purchased out of the wages received. According to the beneficiary
assessment, over 80 percent of the beneficiaries of the PWP-CCT reported that the
program had a positive impact on their agricultural performance. Other added benefits
that may not have been conceived at design included the development of small-scale
irrigation schemes, some of which have attracted nation-wide recognition such as
Manthimba in Thyolo district and Bua-Dwangwa drought mitigation in Kasungu and
Nkhotakota districts. Together, these projects have benefited about 12,000 drought-
affected poor rural households that would have experienced high levels of poverty and
vulnerability without the project intervention.

45.     One other intermediate outcome that has a direct bearing on reducing poverty is
the organization of the communities into business cooperatives. Through COMSIP,
8,392 COMSIGs were established with a total savings of MK28.8 million. This opened
up an opportunity for communities to participate in business initiatives, thereby creating
gainful sources of employment in the rural areas. In line with the Cooperative Act
(1998), a COMSIP Foundation was established to coordinate the provision of capacity
building to community savings groups. The groups are encouraged to register themselves
into cooperatives so that they could benefit from low cost, less risky financial products
and services meant to improve the scope of their businesses. In this way, the project
managed to effectively transform social capital into economic capital. However, as a
result of the reallocation of US$ 12.1 million from the COMSIP component to support
the up-scaling of the PWP-CCT, the project could not support the establishment of club
houses as originally envisaged at design. Moreover, the fostering of linkages between
community savings groups and commercial micro-finance institutions such as the Malawi
Savings Bank (MSB) could not materialize. As a result, some community groups and
individuals ended up demoralized because although they received training, they could not
access capital for micro-investments.

46.     MASAF III APL I also delivered in terms of attending to the needs of vulnerable
groups. Under the SSP, 75,336 vulnerable people such as widows/widowers, the aged,
orphans and foster parents, the destitute, disabled and person affected with HIV/AIDS as
well as malnourished children were directly targeted through interventions channeled
through NGOs/CBOs. The target under this component was 72,000 beneficiaries and this
surpassed by nearly five percent. Interventions under this component have contributed



                                             14

towards improvement in the livelihoods of these vulnerable groups. For example, the
early Childhood Development Centers have directly improved child development through
improved nutrition as a result of the feeding programmes. Other benefits include
economic empowerment of the orphans and the physically challenged through life skills
acquired in vocational training provided through the project's interventions. In some
circumstances, the project has supported orphans with fees for secondary education, and
income transfers for foster households. The design of this component led to
strengthening of the social support mechanisms through the development of community
level specialized structures that have promoted the productivity of the vulnerable groups
and the mitigation of social risks. Furthermore, this component has also provided a
conduit through which other development partners such as UNICEF could channel their
support to the vulnerable children, thereby providing a mechanism for continuity of such
support. Many of the social protection related instruments implemented in Malawi by so
many stakeholders including the Government have modeled their interventions on the
design principles instituted under the APL I.

47.     Gender Impacts: One of the key goals of MASAF was to contribute towards
the achievement of the MDG of promoting gender equality. As such, the project
endeavored to promote fairness in the inclusion of women and men in sub-project
activities. For example, in the implementation of LAMPs, the involvement of women
(50.9 percent) was in fact slightly higher than that of men, because in many cases it is
women and/or female headed households that were likely to face a higher level of
deprivation and vulnerability as a result of the drought. Furthermore, according to the
citizen feedback through the community scorecard process, it was indicated that the
project contributed to the empowerment of women through their involvement in income
generating activities and membership in the project management committees.

48.     Social Development Impacts: The key outcome of the sub-projects
implemented under the CDPs was the improvement in the access to social amenities such
as health, education, water and sanitation. Under the CMPs, 571 of the targeted 591
projects were completed by September 2007, representing about 97 percent performance.
The social amenities provided under this include new classrooms which have since been
providing pupils with improved learning environment thereby improving enrollment and
retention rates in primary school. In addition, the provision of new teachers' houses has
attracted and retained teachers in the rural schools thereby improving the pupil: teacher
ratio. Furthermore, Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) have been trained thereby
increasing the number of births delivered by trained health personnel. This has resulted
in reducing the maternal mortality rates in the project areas. The project also
implemented a Malaria Sub-project and distributed mosquito nets to 400 households, as
well as reaching 11,113 people with a drug revolving fund. This resulted in the reduction
in the incidence of common killer diseases such as malaria which often detract
communities from engaging in their productive activities. This component also provided
improved water and sanitation services through drilling of boreholes and piped water
supply kiosks. Admittedly, many beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with the water
supply provided under the project which substantially reduced the incidence of water-




                                              15

borne diseases and also reduced the burden on women in terms of the effort to walk long
distances to fetch water.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.      APL I managed to empower the Local Governments with the requisite skills to
manage community development projects. With the exception of the National AIDS
Commission, stakeholders at both the national and LA levels have indicated that MASAF
III APL I is the only programme that has given full autonomy and authority to
communities and LAs to manage development funds. During the implementation of
MASAF, significant resources were provided to the LAs (see Annex 11)4. As such,
MASAF also raised the predictability of funding to the LAs and this led to positive
transformation of attitudes and responsiveness towards community development work.
The learning by doing strategy has helped LAs to develop and refine the systems for
effective development planning. While many development practitioners have avoided
directly involving communities in managing development funds fearing the associated
risks, MASAF has successfully tested and clearly demonstrated that with proper systems
and motivation, communities are able to plan and execute their own development
projects. This not only provided full ownership to communities of their own
development, but also deepened their understanding that they can improve their own
situation. This in itself is a key achievement that will have long-lasting implications on
community development in Malawi.

50.      In addition, through the Transparency and Accountability Promotion (TAP), the
project has created an enabling environment to develop and nurture the capacities of
communities, LAs, and CBOs/NGOs towards effective development planning and service
delivery. The supportive framework for effective community development included
development communication interventions through which a number of IEC messages
were formulated and disseminated. This created awareness among the key stakeholders
about the project's organizational and institutional set-up. To the beneficiaries, the
sensitization enabled them to effectively demand development projects. A broad range of
stakeholders were also reached with various capacity development activities related to the
project cycle in wide-ranging aspects such as design and operational principles of CDD
type projects, sub-project standards and control within sectors norms and standards,
participatory monitoring and community accountability, knowledge management,
monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects. A total of 48,165 people, among them
traditional leaders, ward councilors, LA and sector staff were trained in these aspects
through the Leadership Challenge Facility (LCF).

51.      Other aspects of institutional capacity building include the establishment of the
LAMIS which was used as an accountability tool for public resources at the LA level.
The system allows for tracking utilization of resources and achievement of results,


4These were planning figures at the beginning of the APL 1, as such they may be slightly different from
those that were disbursed by the end of the project.




                                                    16

thereby building transparency and accountability in the use of resources. As a resource
management tool, LAMIS has enforced price discipline through the building of cost
database that has widely been adopted for LA project management. As a monitoring and
evaluation tool, it has been very instrumental in providing centralized reporting on
project inputs and outputs. The system has already been adopted by other donor
supported projects to ensure accountability in the utilization of resources.

52.      The project also developed organizational skills and knowledge management
capacity through its research and operational framework. The project emphasized on the
use of knowledge generated through research to build capacity among LAs and
communities to identify service gaps and how to address them (using approaches such as
the Simba Mindset)5. To enhance this capacity, MASAF commissioned a number of
studies and established a knowledge resource and repository, where local experiences on
CDD implementation are housed and will continue to be consulted by stakeholders for a
long time to come. Already, MASAF has been instrumental in providing these
experiences to other countries in the region and beyond. Finally, under this component,
MASAF has also developed and refined social accountability tools such as community
score cards, which have improved community effectiveness and oversight thereby
enhancing management and performance of community development projects.

53.      Notwithstanding these achievements, the transfer of capacity from MASAF to
LAs was somehow constrained by the limited progress in the implementation of the
National Decentralization Policy. Throughout the implementation of the APL I, the LA
continued to operate without effective devolution of fiscal, administrative and political
responsibilities. As such the LAs could not receive sufficient direct fiscal transfers to
finance their local development needs, lack authority to manage their human resources
(due to dual reporting) and have very limited political decision making power. This poses
significant institutional challenges in terms of sustaining the capacity that has been built
through the project.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

54.      The project has had a number of unintended outcomes, many of which have been
positive. Three of the notable positive unintended outcomes include: first, the shift in
Government and other stakeholders' thinking from the use of Starter Pack to conditional
cash transfers as an effective way to address food insecurity and vulnerability. Related to
this is the refining of the targeting mechanisms for such type of community interventions.
Today many cash transfer interventions are using the targeting mechanism developed
under MASAF III APL I; secondly, MASAF's support towards knowledge generation for
CDD type interventions has created a resource which will be used in future interventions



5Simba Mindset is an approach to capacity enhancement whose main features are rapidity in action,
adaptability of strategies, demonstration of competencies, efficiency in the use of resources and a clear
focus on results.




                                                    17

within and beyond the boarders of Malawi. Thirdly, MASAF has also been managing the
funds for the community demand-driven components of two Government projects: the
Community Based Rural Land Development Project and the Irrigation Rural Livelihoods
and Agricultural Development Project. Both projects are financed by the Bank and their
success in terms of delivering the expected outcomes and accounting for community
funds is attributed solely to the fund management services provided by MASAF. This is
an interesting feature which helps IDA funded projects implemented at the community
level to consolidate and build on each other's achievements, thereby ensuring internal
coordination and consistency within IDA supported rural development investment
portfolio in the country.

55.     Although none of the project documents highlighted any possible negative
outcomes, it is quite likely that such a project created massive demand for community
development which could not fully be met resulting in some community polarization. In
some cases, community infrastructure established by the project could not be used
effectively or ended up being put to unintended uses due to lack of complementary
support from LAs.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

56.     Direct project beneficiaries reported improvement in access to social and
economic services with women anecdotally confirming reduced mortality among
pregnant women in areas where MASAF III implemented road projects and where
vehicular traffic increased on the respective roads. Access to health facilities, schools,
markets and other socio-economic amenities has generally improved in the project areas.
This is largely attributed to the opening-up of tertiary and feeder roads, leading to
reduction in the distances to the nearest trunk or all-weather roads. Increased frequency
in the use of the rural roads has improved the business climate in most rural areas where
the project was implemented. Local capacity to manage community development
projects has also greatly improved.

57.     Beneficiaries, however, noted the functionality challenges of the facilities
provided due for example to inadequate health personnel and the declining quality of the
roads. This finding highlights the importance of maintenance, both in terms of funding
and institutional setups.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

58.     Assessment of the sustainability of the development outcomes focuses on three
key dimensions: (a) sustainability of livelihood impacts; (b) sustainability of physical
infrastructure and (c) sustainability of the social capital created through the CDD
approach.

59.     On the sustainability of the livelihood impacts, there are indications from the
impact evaluation that most beneficiary households had improved and sustained
livelihoods especially as a result of the re-investment of the payments received through



                                              18

the CCT. The majority of the households that participated in the CCT used 73 percent of
the money received to buy fertilizer and improved seed. As a result, many were able to
achieve a significant increase in yield (i.e. three-fold increase on average). Such levels
have been maintained during the subsequent seasons as a result of the complementary
Input Subsidy Program. Some of the beneficiaries have also been able to diversify into
small-scale businesses through the training and support provided under COMSIP.
Indications of improved livelihoods among the project beneficiaries include a consistent
decline in the number of people with missing food entitlements and improvements in
some nutrition indicators such as decline in global acute malnutrition. Some of these
reflect general improvements in the economy and may not directly be attributable to the
project. However, the project managed to contribute to these positive outcomes.

60.     On the sustainability of physical infrastructure, it was noted that most of the
infrastructure such as school blocks, clinics and roads were built according to specified
norms and standards. Many of such infrastructures are of acceptable quality. However,
sustainability of such infrastructure is likely to be affected by two key factors: (a)
functionality problems in cases where no provision were not made for other
complementary aspects that could make such infrastructure to be fully functional such as
chairs, boards, teacher-houses in the case of schools, culverts, bridges and drainage
systems in the case of feeder roads; and (b) lack of adequate operations and maintenance
resources. For each of these challenges, the project had made arrangements for
complementary support from the LA, through for example, the matching grant for
operations and maintenance, however, given the resource constraints faced by many LAs,
such arrangements have not been workable.

61.     On the sustainability of the social capital and community development capacity
created at the LA and community levels, there is adequate evidence that this has been
achieved. LA and community level institutional arrangements to ensure functionality and
sustainability of project outcomes have been put in place and are largely functional. For
example, there are various committees that are responsible for the sustainability of each
of the completed sub-projects in terms of routine care and maintenance. The involvement
of local NGOs/CBOs with proven history of working with communities is likely to
enhance sub-project continuity. Furthermore, the establishment of community groups
(for management of water points, forestry, parent-teacher associations) including the
registration of COMSIP groups into member-based organizations and formation of
cooperative unions are all indications of institutional sustainability built by the project at
the local level.

62.     Overall, although the borrower ICR has rated sustainability as being Satisfactory,
the assessment of the Bank team is that there is moderate risk that development outcomes
may not be sustainable given the low capacity and resources for routine operations and
maintenance of some infrastructure sub-projects. This will continue to be the case even
with the APL II if the project resources are not fully integrated into the LA budgets.




                                               19

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

63.    The Bank's performance in the implementation of the APL I has been very
supportive to the success of the project. The project was prepared well in time and
except for the few challenges at the beginning, there was no disruption in the flow of
funds. Moreover, throughout the implementation of the APL I, Bank staff continued to
provide technical, managerial support and fiduciary oversight that kept the implementing
unit always in line with the project implementation plan. The three key attributes of
successfully implemented projects such as timeliness, quality and staying within the
budgetary allocations were largely made possible by the pro-active and timely Bank
advice. Moreover, this agrees with the findings of the Quality of Supervision Assessment
undertaken by the Bank in 2006 which stated that the supervision did quite well to
increase the momentum of the project and maintained the dedication and commitment of
the team even in the face of some challenges.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Performance of the Borrower6

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

(b) Justification of Rating for Borrower Performance

64.    The Government of Malawi persistently supported the project through provision
of technical staff that constituted the various technical committees that appraised and
recommended sub-projects: such committees include the NACCEA, the Joint Technical
Committee and the National Technical Advisory Committee. Strategic policy oversight
and direction was provided by the MASAF Board which was constituted fully by the
Government. Various disbursements arms and mechanisms such the Reserve Bank of
Malawi, the Accountant General and Ministry of Finance, including the Auditor General



6The borrower comprises Government and its local project implementation arms such as LAs and PMCs.




                                                20

and the Office of the Director of Public Procurement all acted diligently to ensure smooth
project implementation. Overall, the project enjoyed widespread support at both the
technical and political levels, and this explains the very high profile that MASAF has had
since its inception.

65.     However, as noted by the Quality Assurance Group, the Government made some
abrupt changes in top level staff at the MASAF Management Unit and was unwilling to
discuss the issue with the Bank. Secondly, the project experienced slow and late release
of counterpart funds which flouted one of the covenants in the legal agreement. Thirdly,
the abolition of elected local councils called into question the overall decentralization
strategy assumption that underpinned the APL program. As such the performance of the
implementing agency as a whole was Moderately Satisfactory.

(c)     Performance of the Implementing Agency7

Rating: Satisfactory

(d)     Justification of rating for Implementing Agency

66.     Throughout the implementation of the APL 1, the Project Management Unit
demonstrated diligence, commitment and professionalism towards successful delivery of
the project. In particular, the Project Management Unit managed to maintain a clean
fiduciary record at a time when other implementation units were struggling with
procurement, financial management and disbursement challenges. Moreover, even with
the slow pace of decentralization and later staff changes at a senior level, the Unit
managed to provide adequate support to the LAs to effectively deliver community
development. Even though the implementation agency is part of the Borrower whose
rating is moderately satisfactory for the reasons provided above, the ICR team felt that
the MASAF Management Unit demonstrated diligence that was very instrumental to the
success of the APL1 (including the previous two phases), and therefore deserved a
Satisfactory rating.

6. Lessons Learned

67.     The following are the key lessons and experiences learnt during the
implementation of MASAF III APL I mainly through observations by staff and Bank
teams in the course of project supervision, studies and direct feedback from communities
and other stakeholders. These lessons and experiences have been considered in the
design of the follow-on APL II and will also be invariably important in the design of
future programs.




7The implementing agency refers to the Malawi Social Action Fund Management Unit (MASAF).




                                                21

6.1 Improved accountability in community development needs to continue

68.     Improved accountability system for community development is critical in order to
enhance positive perceptions among beneficiaries, and other stakeholders including
donors. This provides an incentive for their support and involvement. For this to be
achieved there is need to strengthen the IEC so as to enhance civic engagement and
community accountability. The APL 1 has managed to put in place proper accountability
systems. Throughout project implementation, the role of IEC continued to be
instrumental to the success of the project. Through the IEC program, experiences from
communities, local authorities and NGOs were synthesized and packaged into useful
knowledge and information that enhanced community participation in the sub-project
implementation process. Furthermore, the IEC also enhanced knowledge and
information sharing with other stakeholders beyond the beneficiary communities through
the Statistics Days. This enhanced positive perception and support for the project. As
such, the role of development communication needs to be retained and perhaps
strengthened in future operations to ensure effective community mobilization and
participation in community development.

69.     Communities are now capable of ensuring that local PMCs and District Executive
Committees (DECs) are accountable for the project resources entrusted on them.
Moreover, the project has instilled a sense of community cooperation which enables
communities to create socio-economic capital. This has been achieved through such
processes as participatory community monitoring and accountability through the
community score-card system introduced under the project. The project also noted the
emerging community-level information networks that provided technical advice to new
PMCs on the sub-project cycle and other implementation challenges. There is need to
ensure that future interventions consolidate and build on community development
institutions that will be adaptable and remain valuable for sustainable community
development.

6.2 Results measurement systems need to be strengthened

70.     Through the APL 1, several innovations were made with regard to results
monitoring and measurement. Such systems need to be maintained at each level of
project implementation. For example, at the community level, there is need to promote
the use of community monitoring and feedback through the community statistics days as
an integral part of the monitoring and evaluation framework. At the LA and program
level, there is need to promote participatory development of delivery benchmarks related
to the Community Sub-Project Cycle so that beneficiaries and stakeholders are aware of
what they have to be accountable. There is also the need to enhance a performance
management culture at the LA level by ensuring the harmonization of systems and
procedures (i.e. LAMIS, financial management, procurement and reporting procedures)
including building the capacity for well coordinated development planning.
Furthermore, the tracking of outcome and impact indicators and the linkages with
mainstream national monitoring and evaluation system needs to be improved. Under the



                                             22

APL 1, the assessment of MASAF's contribution to poverty reduction was seen to be
quite challenging due to this particular aspect. Such linkages are important and have to
be established to ensure easy tracking of the project impacts to higher level goals such as
poverty reduction. The development of LAMIS is a positive move in this respect.
Capacity to update the LAMIS and ensure that it feeds into national M&E systems needs
to be strengthened and sustained in future interventions.

6.3 Community-level sustainability mechanisms need to be institutionalized

71.     The sustainable mechanisms to secure continuity and functionality of community
assets and institutions established through the APL I and other similar interventions are
important achievements for this project, and need to be institutionalized. This entails:
(a) provision of adequate operations and maintenance resources and institutional
arrangements for sustainable functionality of social service infrastructure; (b) systematic
mainstreaming of capacity and resources to ensure compliance with environmental and
social safeguards at all levels of sub-project implementation; and (c) ensure that sub-
projects continue to be reviewed, screened and approved within the DDPF. Such
sustainable mechanisms should also ensure a better match between the top-down and
bottom-up in terms of technical specifications (e.g. procedures for establishing Bill of
Quantities (BOQs), material costs, etc.) including sector norms and standards. MASAF
III APL II design has integrated sector norms-based planning at the community, LA, and
national levels while institutionalizing community involvement in service delivery
through LAs.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower

(a) Borrower

72.     The Borrower was consulted at all stages during the preparation of the ICR. Most
of the Borrower's comments focused on the factual consistency, clarity of the analysis
and justification of the ratings and completeness to ensure that important details are not
left out. All the comments were incorporated and the Borrower, through its
Implementing Agency, expressed satisfaction with the current draft ICR. This draft was
therefore cleared by the Borrower.

(b) Cofinanciers: N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: N/A




                                             23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

          Components               Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                   Estimate)           Estimate          Appraisal
1. COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                   28.48              36.83           129%
(CDP)
2. SOCIAL SUPPORT
PROJECTS (SSP)                         24.00              19.94            83%

3. COMMUNITY SAVINGS
AND INVESTMENT                         11.87               2.12            18%
PROMOTION          (COMSIP)
4. TRANSPARENCY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY                           6.67              6.65           100%
PROMOTION (TAP)
5. INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT (ID)                         7.06             11.31           160%


            Total Baseline Cost        78.08               76.85           98%

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00           0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00           0.00
             Total Project Costs         0.00              76.85
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00               0.00           .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00           .00
      Total Financing Required           0.00              76.85




(b) Financing (in USD Million Equivalent)
                                                             Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of     Appraisal     Estimate   Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing    Estimate       (USD      Appraisal
                                                               millions)
Borrower                                                 7.68         0.00          .00
Local Communities                                        5.60         0.00          .00
International Development
Association (IDA)                                       32.80         0.00          .00

IDA Grant for Debt Vulnerable                           27.20         0.00          .00
Non-Government Organization
(NGO) of Borrowing Country                               4.80         0.00          .00




                                           24

Annex 2(a): Outputs by Component

                                           Achieved by       %
                                         September 2007 achievement
#     Indicator                   Target                  on target                       Note

1     CMPs     completed      and 591    571 projects   96.6         On course towards achieving target
      operational

2     LAMPs completed             385    377 projects   97.9         On course towards achieving target

3     H/H      reached       with 18,000 16,029         89.1         Based    on    benefits   from   outputs  in
      assistance under SSP                                           completed SSPs ­ HH in nutrition projects;
                                                                     Under-fives       in    nutrition   projects;
                                                                     chronically ill reached with home based
                                                                     care.

4     Vulnerable reached with     72,000 75,336         104.6        Benefits from outputs in completed SSPs
      assistance under SSP               individuals

5     Individuals in receipt of   72,000 141,975        197          Achievement on regular LAMP only
      LAMP wages (regular
      LAMP)

6     Individuals in receipt of   N/A    673,582        N/A          Achievement on PWP-CCT beneficiaries
      LAMP wages (PWP-                   individuals                 only (both 2005 and 2007 operation)
      CCT)

7     Sub-projects with O&M       90%    100% achieved  111.1        All sub-projects have O&M arrangements at
      arrangements (%)                                               approval

8     Communities trained in      95%    22% achieved   23.2         Low achievement due to lack of training for
      Operation & Maintenance                                        school committees. Committees already
      (%)                                                            trained by Ministry of Education.

9     Women representation in     40%    46.3%          115.75       Target surpassed
      PMCs (%)

10    Savings groups formed       8,000  8,392 COMSIGs  120.6        Target surpassed
      and operational

11    Savings clubs formed and    800    32 COMSICs     4.0          Low achievement on club formation due to
      investing                                                      reallocation of funds to PWP-CCT
12    Field Offices wound up.     2      9 offices      450          All field and zone offices wound up as of
                                                                     December 31, 2006 as the APL Phase one
                                                                     closed.. Effectively, LAs are now in charge
                                                                     of all aspects related to project
                                                                     implementation and accountability of
                                                                     resources.

13    LAs meeting sub-project     8      N/A            N/A          No formal assessment done. However, sub-
      benchmarks                                                     project cost and time overruns continued to
                                                                     be challenges




                                                     25

Annex 2(b): Baseline and MASAF contributions towards Millennium Development Goals

   MDG Targets            MDG Indicators          Malawi       2007       Malawi    MASAF's contribution based on
                                                   2000       Status8      2015               LA Indicators
                                                  Baseline                Target

 1. Eradicate        (1) Poor households          55%       52%         27%         - 815,557 household in receipt of
   extreme poverty      receiving daily transfer                                        PWP wages for two months
   and hunger           or assistance of US$0.30                                    (306,840 men and 318,717 women
                        or more.                                                    -excluding 2007 operation)
                                                                                    - 16,029 households in receipt of
                                                                                    SSP incomes over two years.
                                                                                    8,392 COMSIGs formed and
                                                                                    working.
                                                                                    100,704 households in COMSIGS
                                                                                    and;
                                                                                    ­ US$ 96,794 ­ based on
                                                                                    produce from IGA related SSP
                                                                                    subprojects.

 2. Achieve          (2) Grade 1 children (%)     20%       73%         90%         238,483 pupils in primary school,
   universal            reaching Grade 5.                                           every term.
   primary                                                                          Primary school facilities tracked
   education                                                                        by:
                                                                                    - 471 classroom block
                                                                                    - 462 toilets
                                                                                    - 10 offices
                                                                                    - 80 water boreholes
                                                                                    - 65 wood lot
                                                                                    - 118 teacher house
                                                                                    273 Functioning School
                                                                                    Committees and PTAs.

 3. Promote gender   (3) Girls in primary schools 48%                   50%         50.4 %
   equality and         as % of total.
   empower
   women

 4. Reduce child     (4) Under-fives              30%       22%         15%         6,629 households participating in
   mortality            malnutrition (%) using                                      nutrition projects.
                        weight for age method.                                      6,456 Under-fives in nutrition
                                                                                    projects.




           8 Updating based on the MDG Report for 2007 produced by the Malawi Government.




                                                           26

  MDG Targets             MDG Indicators         Malawi       2005       Malawi         MASAF-LA Indicators
                                                  2000       Status9      2015
                                                 Baseline                Target

6. Combat           (6) Orphans given training  N/A                                12,849 orphans supported.
  HIV/AIDS,         and tools for production.                                      720 Production tools (carpentry,
  malaria and                                                                      tinsmith, tailoring, knitting)
  other diseases                                                                   distributed.
                    (7) Chronically ill reached N/A                                2, 944 chronically ill persons
                    with home based care.                                          covered by Home-Based
                                                                                   Care projects.
                    (8) Households in an anti-  N/A                                400 households using impregnated
                    Malaria program.                                               bed nets.
7. Ensure           (9) Forest cover for non-   27.6%      27.2%       84%         3,649 Hectares planted with
  environmental     agricultural land (%)                                          seedlings
  sustainability    (10) Households with
                    sanplats for sanitation.    77%        66%         68%         8,710,823 seedlings planted.
                                                                                   20 households given sanplats.
                    (11) Households with
                    improved water source       37%                                111,750 households with
                                                                                   improved water source.



8. Develop a        (12) Households             N/A        80%                     9 Drug Revolving Funds fully
  global            participating in                                               stocked and in use, benefiting
  partnership for   functioning Drug                                               11,113 individuals
  development       Revolving Funds (stocked
                    with a specified minimum
                    list of drugs)




          9 Updating based on the MDG Report for 2007 produced by the Malawi Government.




                                                          27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic and financial viability of the project is based on an analysis of cost-
effectiveness of MASAF interventions, more especially infrastructure sub-projects10.
The analysis compares the costs of delivering specific infrastructure sub-projects
compared to the costs of similar infrastructure delivered through projects supported by
other development partners11. The analysis assessed whether project outputs were
achieved at the least possible cost, in terms of financial outlays made, the time taken to
complete the sub-projects and their quality compared to sector norms and standards.

On the basis of this analysis, MASAF III APL 1 costs were seen to be on average 15 ­ 40
percent lower than those of DFID and EU. These cost differences mainly result from the
different approaches that are adopted in the delivery of the sub-projects. For instance,
MASAF has a higher matching contribution from the community whereas DFID and EU
European Union funded Microprojects (MPP) provide 100 percent grant financing.
However, even if these community contributions are factored into the sub-project costs,
there is still higher cost-effectiveness under MASAF compared to the others. The other
difference could be attributed to the quality differences. It was however noted that
quality differences were not so wide as to explain the significant cost differences because
all these sub-projects were guided by the same sector norms and standards. The
calculation of the cost effectiveness ratios is shown in Table A3.

Other measures of cost-effectiveness included the costs per beneficiary for education
infrastructure, unit costs for roads as well as the overhead or administrative costs of sub-
project delivery. On the cost per beneficiary for education infrastructure, MASAF
classrooms cost about US$167 per pupil compared to US$238 for classrooms constructed
with support from the DFID Education Programme. Considering continuous enrollment
throughout the 40-year design lifespan of the classrooms, the average costs become
US$4.19 to 4.51 and US$5.96 per pupil, respectively. In terms of the roads sub-projects,
for MASAF the earthworks cost between US$1,116 ­ 1,200 per kilometer excluding
culverts compared to US$1,286 per kilometer for EU-MPP funded roads. On the
overheads or administrative costs, MASAF's CCT Programme had a much lower
overhead cost estimated at US$1.15 per dollar transferred compared to I-Life (US$8.21)
and EU Public Works Programme (US$ 6.08).




10Conventional measures of economic viability such as net present value and economic rate of return were
not calculated at appraisal due to valuation challenges associated with CDD-type projects because of the
difficulty in defining project activities or sub-projects ex-ante.

11The comparison of unit costs of infrastructure sub-projects included MASAF 3 APL 1, Department for
International Development and the European Union. Data on costs was obtained from LAMP and CMP
records in case of MASAF, the Education Programme in the case of DFID and the Micro-project
Programme in the case of the EU.




                                                       28

All these indicators support the fact, notwithstanding the comparative challenges, MASAF
projects were delivered more cost-effectively compared other similar sub-projects implemented
by other donors. Moreover, sustainability of many sub-projects under MASAF is higher because
of the greater involvement of the beneficiaries in the entire sub-project cycle which enhances
their ownership.

Table A3: Comparison of direct costs of MASAF infrastructure sub-projects with other donors
(costs in US$)

                                                                                   Cost-effectiveness ratio
                                                                                    (excl. LA overheads)


                                                                                  Compared      Compared
                                MASAF,      MASAF,        DFID        EU Micro    with DFID      with EU
                     Descripti  (excl LA    (incl. LA   Education     projects     Projects       Micro-
 Item        Units      on     overhead)   overhead)   Programme       PE10                       projects
 Earth              Reshaping
 Road         Km      / drains    1,116.10    1,199.81      n/a         1,285.71      n/a           15.2
 Bridge       No     10m span     4,810.33    5,171.11      n/a        64,285.71      n/a           n/a
 Culvert             600mm x
 line        Line       6m         561.93      604.07       n/a         1,107.14      n/a           n/a
 Classroom
 block        No      Double    14,418.62   15,500.01     20,500.00    20,000.00     42.2           38.7
 Teachers             Single
 House        No     quarters   13,132.06   14,116.96     21,525.00    20,000.00     63.9           52.3
 VIP
 Latrine      No      Double      1,975.95    2,124.15     1,845.00     2,500.00     -6.6           26.5
 VIP
 Latrine      No      Single      1,188.48    1,277.61     1,435.00      n/a         20.7           n/a


        Source: MASAF III APL I Impact Evaluation (2008)




                                                     29

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support

(a) Task Team members

            Names                        Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Norbert O. Mugwagwa      Operations Adviser                 AFTHD Lending Task Team
                                                                  Leader
Nginya Mungai Lenneiye   Sr. Social Protection Specialist   AFTH1
Yisgedullish Amde        Operations Office                  AFTH1
Prasad C. Mohan          Lead IEC specialist                AFTKL
Victoria L. Fofanah      Program Assistant                  AFTH1
Tesfaalem Gebreiyesus    Sr. Procurement Specialist         AFTPC
Valerie J. Kozel         Sr. Economist                      AFTH1
Enid Kyomugisha          Program Assistant                  AFMUG
Hope C. Phillips Volker  Sr. Operations Officer             AFTH1
Donald Herrings Mphande  Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist     AFTFM
Krishna Pidatala         Sr. Operations Officer             CITPO
Supervision/ICR
Nginya Lenneiye Mungai   Sr. Social Protection Specialist   AFTH1 Task Team Leader
Norbert O. Mugwagwa      Operations Adviser                 AFTHD
Suleiman Namara          Sr. Social Protection Specialist   AFTH1
Simon Chirwa             Procurement Specialist             EAPCO
Janet Chido Bvumbe       Program Assistant                  AFMZW
Alfred Sambirani Chirwa  Population & Health Spec.          AFTH1
Lori A. Geurts           Senior Program Assistant           AFTH1
Hardwick Tchale          Agricultural Economist             AFTAR
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo    Sr. Procurement Specialist         EAPCO
Wedex Ilunga             Procurement Spec.                  AFTPC
Chrissie Kamwendo        Operations Officer                 AFMMW
Donald Mphande           Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist     AFTFM
Francis Mkandawire       Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM
Michael N. Mambo         Sr. Education Specialist           AFTH1
Ramson M. Mbetu          E T Consultant (SP)                AFTH1
Prasad C. Mohan          Lead IEC Specialist                WBGSA
Gert Johannes Alwyn Van  Sr. Financial Management
Der Linde                Specialist                         AFTFM

Eva K. Teh               Program Assistant                  AFTH1
Maggie M. Mshanga        Team Assistant                     AFMMW
Rose D. Ndalama          Administrative Assistant           AFMMW
Krishna Pidatala         Senior Operations Officer          CITPO
Pascal Tegwa             Sr.Procurement Spec.               AFTPC
Anju Vajja               E T Consultant                     IEGSG




                                          30

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                 14                        80.07
  FY03                                 69                       370.29
  FY04                                                            1.94


                        Total:         83                       452.30
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                 26                       104.47
  FY05                                 30                       116.24
  FY06                                 53                       184.03
  FY07                                 15                        84.20
  FY08                                   2                       10.05
                        Total:        126                       498.99




                                    31

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

This is a shortened version of the executive summary of the beneficiary assessment that
was undertaken as part of the Impact Evaluation. The final Impact Evaluation report is
available and can be consulted for detailed findings, conclusions and recommendations.

This impact evaluation assessed only the first of the three programme phases (i.e. APL1,
from 2003 to 2006). The objective of this impact evaluation was to conduct a
retrospective assessment across five specific areas: (1) Access to services, including
changes in access, utilization and beneficiary satisfaction with services and facilities; (2)
Conditional cash transfers, assessing both the targeting benefits to the poor and the
resultant mitigating effects on households; (3) Cost effectiveness of various sub-project
investments; (4) Institutional assessment, evaluating the institutional impact of MASAF
III-APL I, including influence on District Development Planning (DDP) system and LA
capacity to manage projects; and, (5) Sustainability, to measure the technical, financial
and physical sustainability of facilities and services implemented under MASAF III-APL
I. The purpose of the impact study is to feed lessons and recommendations into the
follow-up to MASAF III-APL I or similar programmes.

Given the demand-driven nature of MASAF III and that there was no basis to determine
ex-ante the type of projects communities were to demand, there was no baseline survey
conducted for MASAF III. The evaluation team therefore explored the possibility of
reconstructing a baseline using secondary data from the National Statistics Office (NSO),
such as the Integrated Household Survey (IHS, 2004). The team however concluded that
there was an insufficient overlap between IHS/ MASAF villages necessary to obtain a
sample that would sufficiently represent the diversity of MASAF III-APL I's projects.

The primary data collection for this study was based on the household survey. The
sampling strategy was based on a detailed analysis of the typology and sectoral focus of
projects funded under MASAF III-APL I. The final sample size of control and treatment
areas was 1590. To triangulate the results from the household survey, the evaluation
team undertook a qualitative survey of project committee members (n=83), focus group
discussions (n=60), key informant interviews, and conducted visits to five Local
Authorities (LAs) where specialists undertook assessments of sustainability, cost-
effectiveness, institutional development and the MIS, M&E and IEC systems.

Key findings on impact based on the beneficiary assessment

Incomes and food security of the poorest: The Conditional Cash Transfers (CCT)
programme has added a valuable complement to both the regular public works
programme and the fertilizer subsidy programme. By providing higher wage rates
(MK200/day) the CCT programme provided a viable means for households to purchase
some food for immediate consumption and some agricultural inputs. In addition, since
the CCT projects were mostly short lived, the potential negative impact of the higher
wage on local labour markets was minimised. In terms of impact, an analysis of



                                              32

expenditure patterns shows that earnings were mainly used to purchase fertilizer (about
68%), maize grain for consumption (25%), maize seed (5%), bean seed (1%) and
groundnut seed (1%) across the four districts surveyed. Earnings allocated to other food
items and clothing was low (below 1%). Of those households that purchased fertilizer,
most purchased between 50kg and 100 kg of fertilizer. For maize seed, the vast majority
of households bought less than 20kg, with over a third of households buying less than
5kg. Most households interviewed confirmed a three to four -fold increase in their maize
harvest due to higher levels of fertilizer application and use of high yielding maize seed,
coupled with good rainfall. For maize grain for consumption, the purchases of
households varied widely, but are estimated to be equivalent to about two calendar
months of household food consumption requirements. Although significant, beneficiaries
would have required supplementary support to meet annual requirements in a drought
season. Overall, expenditure patterns indicated that the programme made an important
contribution to addressing vulnerability and the food security, and that households
utilized the cash primarily to enhance their agricultural productivity.

In terms of targeting, the gender allocation of tasks and the setting of wage labour rates,
the CCT programme performed generally well. In most cases the selection of
beneficiaries was appropriately conducted, with local leaders generally attempting to
target the most vulnerable. Furthermore, local adaptations to shorten the duration of the
contracted time so as to maximize the number of beneficiaries helped to further reinforce
the participation of larger sections of the vulnerable population. Women were targeted
more than men. This focus on women was especially important, as the targeting of
women is generally believed to enhance food security and reduce poverty more than that
of men. This is because of increasing evidence that women are more likely to spend cash
on food and other basic commodities. Men and female household members were
generally allocated different tasks, and for most women (76%) participation in the
scheme was said to have elevated their position. In addition, since the CCT projects were
mostly short lived (5-10 days of contract duration), the potential negative impact on the
local labour markets was minimal.

In terms of national impact, the results showed that the CCT assisted households to
access at least 15% of the total quantity of subsidized fertilizer supplied by the
government in 2005. On national food security, the CCT programme together with the
subsidy on fertilizer and a favorable rainfall season contributed to the national surplus in
staple food production realized in 2005/6 agricultural season of 487,000 metric tones.

Access, use & satisfaction with services/facilities: MASAF III-APL1 has made an
important contribution at national level in terms of social and economic infrastructure
provision in both rural and urban areas. Project beneficiaries reported improvement in
access to social and economic services with women confirming reduced mortality among
pregnant women in areas where MASAF III implemented road projects and where
vehicular traffic increased on the respective roads. MASAF APL I had made key
contributions in opening-up tertiary and feeder roads, leading to reduction in the
distances to social services such as health, education and to markets. According to the
household survey, the main drawback with the road improvements has been the declining



                                              33

quality given the inadequate provisions for operations and maintenance. This finding
highlights the importance of maintenance, both in terms of funding and institutional setup.

Key findings on sustainability from the perspective of the beneficiaries

For CMP education projects (classroom blocks, staff houses, boreholes, VIP latrines), the
quality of construction was found to be generally acceptable; although it could have been
improved with more financial resources, correct workmanship and better technical
supervision during critical stages of construction. In terms of overall durability of the
buildings, this is an aspect that has yet to be studied in real time, although the differences
in approach and technology between various agencies (MASAF, EU MPP, and DFID)
may be expected to result in different levels of durability. This is especially important, as
maintenance remains a concern, with only 22% of education projects having mobilized
community funding to finance routine maintenance ­ a fact that is compounded by
insufficient allocation of funds by government or local authorities towards maintenance.

For road infrastructure projects, MASAF III-APL1 has made an important contribution to
the opening up of new rural feeder roads where none existed previously. Under PWP-
CCTs the primary objective of transferring cash to the poor has largely been achieved.
There is a need to pursue more strongly the secondary objective (i.e. to create sustainable
community assets) by reducing defects in construction and omissions at field appraisal.
While it is accepted that a balance needs to be struck between the efficient distribution of
cash and the construction of roads, the analysis of cash transfers showed there being
relatively low overhead costs. It is therefore argued that some increase in costs could
result in a much more effective programme, delivering assets that have a more far-
reaching and sustained impact for all community members. Small additions such as one-
off investments in basic equipment (e.g. hand rollers) and improved technical
supervision would enhance the quality of the outputs, and yet the programme could
remain an efficient channel for transferring cash to the poor.

For Social Support Projects (SSP), the viability of projects varied considerably between
different LAs. In general, success was more often dependent on the quality of the initial
design and the capacity to implement the project. The capacity of CBOs in particular
appears to have had a direct bearing on the performance of the project. In some projects
(especially paraffin lamps and goat raising), the evaluation found that flawed design and
budgeting resulted in a disproportionate amount of funds as working capital, compared to
the total investment in the fixed assets (goat kraals, paraffin pump houses, etc). Only
23% of the SSP project committees interviewed had a community fund to finance routine
maintenance and repair work for the infrastructure constructed.

Community Savings and Investment Promotion (COMSIP) projects were one of the most
promising in terms of sustainability. In the early stages however, most groups that were
formed did not last long due to delays in training delivery and unmet expectations
(misinformed expectations) related to the provision of loans from MASAF was not met.




                                              34

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The summary provides only the major issues that were discussed during the
implementation completion review workshop. Some of these have been highlighted in
the main text of the ICR. A complete workshop report is available.

APL I Design Issues

1.      The extent to which the design of MASAF III APL I took into account lessons
from the MASAF II: The design of MASAF III took into account lessons generated
under the I and II. However, the overall design of the MASAF programme was based on
the community needs assessment that was carried out by the Malawi Government in
collaboration with the World Bank ­ where, major issues pointed to the need to have a
direct community financing mechanism for improved service delivery.


2.      The synergies among the project components: MASAF III components were
designed in such a way that they complemented each other. Examples below illustrate
the existence of such synergies:

    (a) The Local Assembly Managed Projects ­ improve accessibility of basic social
         economic services (i.e. schools, health centres - CMP).
    (b) Social capital from LAMP and SSP investments were being transformed onto
         economic capital under the COMSIP component.
    (c) Assistance provided to vulnerable individuals such as orphans enables those
         orphans to attend schools; assistance to the critically ill eased the burden of
         foster households. In turn, foster households were able to participate in LAMP
         subprojects and earn cash income for themselves but also participate effectively
         in the implementation of CMP subprojects.

3.      The Project's contribution towards the achievement of the MDGs: Stakeholders
noted the challenges related to the project's contribution to the MDGs given the CDD
framework, since LAs have no control on the choice of subprojects that may be need to
be implemented e.g. malarial control subprojects as communities are largely used to
infrastructural type of projects. Future programmes may need to consider supply driven
approach for specific subprojects earmarking specific contribution towards the MDGs.

Operational Issues

4.      Financial management safeguards for community funds: Stakeholders pointed
out some inadequacies in safeguards on revenue from SSP IGA related subprojects,
which may not benefit intended beneficiaries. There was a suggestion to strengthen
current mechanisms to ensure that proceeds from these projects reach the intended
beneficiaries. Other operational issues included:

    · Poor relationship between PMC and CBOs particularly after project completion
        existed in a number of subprojects and that future programmes should provide
        mechanisms for ensuring that the two committees work together.


                                             35

· Consistency between community priorities and District Development Plans
   (DDP). To ensure such consistency, LAs indicated that they monitor community
   requests, which feed into the DDP.

· Some LAs proposed that some elements of community procurement should be
   vetted at the LA to minimise cases of misprocurement. It was noted that there
   were some isolated cases of misprocurement more especially where the PMC did
   not seek advice from the LA.

· Justification assistants were not fully integrated into the LA system. Justification
   Assistants were viewed as MASAF staff and that LAs could not fully involve
   them in other LA activities.

· There were few instances where community demands for sub-projects were not
   approved. It was clarified that the CDD approach allows communities to
   prioritise their needs, which are funded by the Project. However, community
   priorities may not be funded if they were not in line with sector norms e.g.
   request for a health centre where there is another one nearby.

· Weak relationship between PMC and other existing local level structures
   (VDC/ADC). It was observed that Village Development Committee/Area
   Development Committee participated in pre-cycle processes such as subproject
   appraisal. Once subproject implementation commenced, VDCs /ADCs were not
   actively involved in the implementation.

· LAs indicated that functions of other community level structures such as Area
   Executive Committees (AECs) were not fully recognised by the Project,
   particularly during subproject implementation.

Policy Issues

· Need for standardisation of appraisal systems and other operational procedures.
· Need to improve on lunch allowances versus adopting traditional motivational
   system.
· Unclear communication channels among the key players ­ Communities, LAs and
   MASAF MU, consequently leading to contradictory messages at times.
· The need for donors to coordinate their engagement with the LA system ­ the LA
   is flooded with different procedures from various donors which put a strain on
   their already constrained systems.




                                        36

CDD and Social funds: Progress and Next steps

· Major accomplishments
     o Significant impact among poor populations and communities
     o Systems to plan, finance and manage local investment
     o Methods for community empowerment

· Current concerns
     o Sustainability of investment and services
     o Sustainability of institutions
     o Overcoming fragmentation of instruments and interventions

· The need for broader approach to local development
     o How to institutionalise processes which empower communities
     o How to engage governance to improve front line service delivery
     o How to build operational links among local public sector, civil society and
        private sector development efforts
     o How to sustain programmes supported from above through local level
        institutional arrangements




                                     37

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Highlights of the Borrower's ICR are contained in the main text and a complete report is
available as per list of Supporting Document (see Annex 9).




                                          38

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                   39

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Malawi Social Action Fund 3 APL 1
(MASAF III APL I: 2003-2007) Government of Malawi, February 2008.

Malawi Social Action Fund 3 APL 1 Completion Review Workshop Report. MASAF
Management Unit, Lilongwe. October 2007

Malawi Social Action Fund 3 APL 1 Impact Evaluation Final Report. JIMAT
Development Consultants. March 2008.

Malawi Social Action Fund 3 APL 1 Project Appraisal Document (PAD). World Bank
Report No. 25562 ­ MW. April 2003.

Malawi Government. 2007. MDG Report for 2007. Lilongwe, Malawi.

Enhancing the Implementation of Environmental Mitigation Measures in MASAF III
Sub-projects. December 2005.

Report on Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7) for MASAF III APL I. World
Bank. August 2006.

Project Mid-Term Review for MASAF III APL I, MASAF Management Unit. February
2006.

Multi-dimensional results measurement in CDD projects. World Bank Social
Development Findings Brief No. 285. December 2007.

Integrating MDG's into the Malawi Social Action Fund. World Bank Social
Development Findings Brief No. 233. December 2003.




                                         40

Annex 10. List of Technical Research Studies Commissioned by MASAF under
               APL I

   1.       Evaluation of the effectiveness of the SSP Project cycle, 2004
   2.       Cost Effectiveness of SSP subprojects, 2004-2005
   3.       District Baseline Surveys on MDGs, 2004-2005
   4.       Assessment of Financial Management Capacity of LA accounting staff, 2004-05
   5.       Development of CBO Bye-laws Framework, 2005-06
   6.       Development of Transformation Strategy for MSB, 2006
   7.       Evaluation of PMC Training, 2004-05
   8.       Lessons & Experiences of Ten Years of MASAF, 2005-06
   9.       Production of National and LA Base Maps, 2006
   10.      Development of Project Mapping System (GIS), 2006
   11.      Bi-Annual Audit Consultancy, 2006
   12.      Market Studies for COMSIP, 2006-07
   13.      SSP Tracking Studies, 2006-07
   14.      1995-2005 MASAF Monograph, 2005-07
   15.      IEC Impact Assessment, 2006-07
   16.      MASAF III APL I Impact Evaluation, 2007
   17.      Development of Indigenous Knowledge Resources, 2007
   18.      Review of the Intergovernmental Fiscal Transfer System in Malawi, 2007
   19.      Partial Enhancement of the Local Assembly Management Information System,
            2007
   20.      Preparation of the COMSIP Business Plan

Note: This excludes financial audits, media production, news materials design and
printing as well as internal studies conducted through the MASAF Research Unit




                                             41

Annex 11. Allocation of MASAF III resources to LAs.

    Name of              Local       Social    Community Local Authority   Total    Per
    Local              Authority     Support    Managed    Managed       Allocated Capita
    Authority (LA)     Population    Projects   Projects    Projects    to each LA
                                    MK'million MK'million  MK'million   MK'million  MK
   1Chitipa                 126,799       20.47      23.55         22.21      66.23    522

   2Karonga                 166,761       23.85      26.32         18.13      68.30    410
   3Karonga Town             27,811        3.98       3.08          6.01      13.07    470
   4Rumphi                  128,360       26.23      19.76         19.78      65.77    512
   5Nkhata Bay              164,761       28.44      30.45         15.89      74.78    454
   6Likoma                     8,074       1.39       2.87          2.38       6.64    822
   7M'mbelwa                524,014       88.97      54.73         59.52     203.23    388
   8Mzuzu City               86,980       14.77      13.95         10.17      38.89    447
   9Kasungu                 452,905       83.65      58.45         53.35     195.45    432
  10Kasungu Town             27,754        5.13       3.24         16.51      24.87    896
  11Nkhotakota              229,460       37.12      37.37         29.22     103.71    452
  12Ntchisi                 167,880       22.68      32.73         22.72      78.12    465
  13Dowa                    411,387       64.24      48.46         47.88     160.59    390
  14Salima                  227,859       55.87      32.37         34.85     123.08    540
  15Salima Town              20,355        4.99       2.81         15.56      23.36  1,148
  16Lilongwe Rural          905,889      152.76      80.65         93.92     327.33    361
  17Lilongwe City           440,471       74.28      37.85         43.73     155.86    354
  18Mchinji                 324,941       73.88      40.59         43.59     158.05    486
  19Dedza                   471,274       99.25      50.34         58.75     208.34    442
  20Dedza Town               15,408        3.24       2.38         12.45      18.08  1,173
  21Ntcheu                  370,757       77.02      38.43         47.25     162.70    439
  22Mangochi                583,669       92.18      59.41         64.22     215.81    370
  23Mangochi Town            26,570        4.20       2.69          9.95      16.84    634
  24Machinga                353,913       87.78      46.14         40.83     174.75    494
  25Liwonde Town             15,701        3.89       1.90          8.98      14.77    941
  26Balaka Town              14,298        3.08       1.85          9.69      14.62  1,023
  27Balaka                  238,800       51.39      32.56         30.85     114.80    481
  28Zomba Rural             480,746       77.51      49.25         53.04     179.80    374
  29Zomba Municipality       65,915       10.63      11.32         12.55      34.49    523
  30Chiradzulu              236,050       36.66      28.16         30.12      94.94    402
  31Blantyre Rural          307,344       40.55      33.12         33.36     107.03    348
  32Blantyre City           502,053       66.24      42.63         50.65     159.52    318
  33Neno                     74,678       24.23      17.66         13.46      55.35    741




                                      42

34Mwanza                63,337    20.55    22.23      12.57   55.35    874
35Thyolo               450,134    88.75    50.46      54.48   193.69   430
36Luchenza Town          8,842     1.25     1.47      7.52    10.24   1,158
37Mulanje              428,322    60.41    45.20      47.76   153.37   358
38Phalombe             231,990    33.18    31.86      30.84   95.89    413
39Chikwawa             356,682    70.91    41.74      41.81   154.46   433
40Nsanje               194,924    38.32    22.56     23.60    84.49    433
  Total Allocated    9,933,868  1773.90  1182.60    1250.18  4206.68   423


  Average per LA                  44.35    29.57      31.25   105.17
  Minimum LA                       1.25     1.47       2.38     6.64
  Maximum LA                     152.76    80.65      93.92   327.33



  US$'million                     16.20    10.80      11.42   38.42




                               43

