Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6978-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTUiMAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 19, 1988
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture Operations Division
lids docunent hs a resited dbb        and may be used by rWecIpIens oily In the perfonnee of
their offcial duties Its content my not    bse   dclosed wtho  Wodd Bank auhan



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AT APPRAISAL
US$1.00                   Yemeni Rials (YRls) 9.00
YR1 1.00            =    US$0.11111
YRls 1.0 million         US$111,111
(As of January 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 milliketer (mm)      *  0.039 inches
1 meter                =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (i2)    =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =  10,000 square meters (2.47 acres)
1 metric ton (ton)     =  2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)            =  0.264 gallons
1 1/s                  =  One liter per second
1 m3/s                 =  One cubic meter per second
1 Mm3                  =  One million cubic meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARA      =     Agricultural Research Authority
CACB     =     Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CLCCD    =     Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative
Development
CPO      =     Central Planning Organization
ERR      =     Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP   =     Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Programme
FAO/IC   =     Food and Agriculture Organization/Investment
Center
ICB      =     International Competitive Bidding
IDA      =     International Development Association
IFAD     =     International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB      =     Local Competitive Bidding
LCCD     =     Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MAF      =     Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NORADEP  =     Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
NORDA    =     Northern Regional Development Authority
O&M      =     Operation and Maintenance
PCR      =     Project Completion Report
PDRY     =     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PPF      =     Project Preparation Facility
SDC      =     Swiss Development Cooperation
SFYP     =     Second Five-Year Plan
SMS      =     Subject Matter Specialist                       .
SRADP    =     Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
SURDP    =     Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU    =     Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA      .     Tihama Development Authority
TFYP     =     Third Five-Year Plan (1987-1991)
UNDP     =     United Nations Development Programme
YAR      =     Yemen Arab Republic
GOVEP.WlENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USR ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTRERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
aPae No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMMARY .M....... ................        i-i.
I* BACKGROUND         . . . . . . . . .                              I
A.  Project Background .g. d.. .  .  ...    .................. .
B.  The Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . *  . . . . . .1
II.  THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL . . . . . . . .       10
A. Physical Features  .... .      .  .  .  .  . .. .  .  .  .   .  10
B. Water Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .        11
C.  Organization and Agricultural Support Services . . . .      12
D.  Irrigation and Agricultural Practices  .  . . .  . . .      13
E. Animal Production  . . ....... .                 ...         16
F. Role of Women  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . .  16
III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .                       17
A. Project Objectives, Rationale and Scope  . . . . . .         17
B.  Detailed Project reatures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      19
C. Cost Estimate  . .....  .       . . .  . ....    . . . . .   .  24
D. Financing   .      . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . . . . . .     25
E. Procurement   .. ..  . . . . . .     .  .    ..... . . .     27
F. Disbursements  . .  . . . . . .  .   .      . . .   . . .    29
G.  Accounts and Audits  . ...... .   . .........               30
B. Environmetal Impact ................ .  . .      .  .  .   .  30
I. Riparian Issues  . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..     . . .   31
J.  Status of Project Preparation   ..  . . . . . . . . .       31
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      32
A.  Institutional Arrangements . . . . . . . . .  . . . .       32
B.  Project Implementatlon ....    ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    .  33
C. Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       35
D.  Progress Reporting .... . ...     .  .  .  .  .   # ...  .  .    .  35
E.  Lands for Project Facilities . 444444..... . . . . . ..     36
Project was prepared by FAO/CP in March 1987 and appraised by IDA in June/July
1987. This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission to Yemen
Arab Republic consisting of Messrs. S. Rana, Senior Irrigation Engineer
(Leader); G. van Santen, Senior Economist; J. Fuad, Agriculturist and D.
Masterton, Agricultire and Livestock Specialist (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offici duties Its contents may not oherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                          Page No.
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . .   36
A.  Production  .          . . . . . . .        . ..*   . . *  36
B.  Financial Results  . . . ..  ..  . ...... .  . .....       38
C.  Taxes and Cost Recovery  . . .  . . . . . * .   . .  . . .  39
D.  Benefits and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
E. Economic Rate of Return  .... . . . . . . . . . . .  .      41
F. Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   41
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . .         42
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1    Irrigation Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
2.2    Sharecropping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
3.1    Project Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
3.2    Project Financing Plan .                                 26
3.3    Procurement Plan . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .     28
3.4    Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
3.5    Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
5.1    Farm Size and Area Under Development . . . . . . . . .    37
5.2    Return to Labor of Project Farm Models . . . . . . . .   39
ANNEX 1:
Supporting Tables
1.    Agricultural Sector Development - Key Indicators  . . . .   44
2.    Estimated Agricultural Production in YAR  . . . . . . . .   45
3.    Project Coverage  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
4.    Agricultural Background - Land Use  . . . . . . . . . . .   47
5.    Land Tenure, Farm Size and Fragmentation  . . . . . . . .   48
6.    Proposed Location of Extension Service Centers  . . . . .   49
7.    List of Vehicles, Equipment and Machinery . . . . . . . .   50
8.    Technical Assistance and Training . . . . . . . . . . . .   51
9.    Project National Staff  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
l0.(a) Project Components by Year and Summary Accounts
by Project Component  s 3 * .    * . .  . . . .   . .     53
l0.(b) Breakdown of Summary Accounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54
l0.(c) Summary Accounts by Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55
11.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit  . . . .   56
12.    Present and Future Yields and Total Production  . . . . .   57
13.    Financial Crop Budget Per Ha and Farm Income  . . . . . .   58
14.    Incremental Taxes.... ..... . ......... .                   59
15.    Cost and Rent Recovery at Full Development  . . . . . . .   60
16.    Financial and Economic Prices . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   61
17.    Economic Costs and Benefits Streams,
Agriculture Component       ...............               62
18.    Sensitivity Analysis, Agriculture Component . . . . . . .   63



Page No.
ANNEX 2: Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank  . . . . . . .        64
Supporting Tables:
1.  Balance Sheet as at 31 December 1986 . . . . . . . .      68
2. Income and Expenditure Account for the
Year Ended 31 December 1986  . . .   . . . . . . . .    69
ANNEX 3: Village Water Supply Schemes . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        70
Table 1:  Village Water Supply Schemes -
Estimate of Cost . . .  ..........              72
ANNEX 4:  Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File  3. . . . . . . . .                            73
CHARTS
World Bank - E-40211-<:  NORADEP Organization Chart  . . . . . .      74
World Bank - E-40211-1:  Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries Organization Chart  . . . .      75
World Bank - E-40211-2:  Crop Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . .        76
World Bank - E-40211-5:  Overall Implementation Schedule . . .        77
MAPS
IBRD 19940 - NORADEP - Project Area
IBRD 19941 - NORADEP - Project Features



- i -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AID PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower
Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR).
Amount:
SDRs 12.5 million (US$17.6 million equivalent).
Terms:
Standard IDA with 40 years maturity.
Beneficiuies:
Inhabitants of the Northern Region of YAR.
Implementing Agency:
Northern Regional Development Authority (NORDA).
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB).
Project Objectives and
Decition:
The project would increase agricultural production and farmers' income in
the northern governorates of Saadah and Rajjah and the northern districts
of Sana'a Governorate which have not yet benefitted from Government's
efforts at promoting agricultural development in the country. The
Government attaches high priority to accelerated development of the
Northern Regionjbecause of sociopolitical considerations and for ensuring
more balanced regional development in the country. The project will
provide: (a) agricultural services including (i) facilities, vehicles and
equipment to establish and strengthen regional support services in
agricultural extension, (ii) establishment of nurseries, (iii) support to
applied research, (iv) assistance in making necessary inputs (particularly
fertilizer) available; (v) development facilities for rural women; and
(vi) veterinary services; (b) agricultural credit; (c) studies for and
construction of recharge dams/spate breakers to improve groundwater
irrigation; (d) facilities for establishment of O&M service;
(e) establishment of project headquarters and facilities; and (f) technical
assistance and training.
Benefits and Risks:
The project would benefit about 9,200 farm families or 60,000 people in the
Northern Region through the development of agriculture and improvement in
their standard of living through better health and nutrition practices.
This number is expected to increase to about 27,000 farm families after the
project implementation period, benefitting from regular extension service
established under the project. Also, provision for construction of
recharge dams and demonstration farms would increase water availability and



- ii -
higher efficiency in irrigatict. The main risks include delay in the
mobilization of NORDA, which would be the project implementation agency,
and the effectiveness of extension service in convincing farmers to adopt
new farming practices. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government to take appropriate actions to overcome these problems.
Project Costs:'
Local     foreign     Total
---- (US$ million) ------
Agricultural Services                     5.9         7.5        13.4
Agricultural Credit                       1.7         2.3         4.0
Irrigation Development                    1.3         0.8         2.1
Establishment of O&M Service              0.1         1.1         1.2
Establishment of Project
Headquarters and Facilities             3.5         2.1         5.6
Technical Assistance and Training         0.9         5.0         5.9
Total Baseline Cost               13.4       18.8         32.2
Physical Contingencies                    1.5         1.9         3.4
Price Contingencies                       1.7         2.1         3.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                16.6       22.8         39.4
1/  Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
Fincing Plan:
Local     ForeiRn      Total
IDA                                        -         17.6         17.6
UNDP                                       _          3.4          3.4
Government and Beneficiaries              16.6        1.8         18.4
TOTAL                             16.6        22.8        39.4
Estimated Completion Date: December 31, 1994
Estimated Disbements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
Annual       0.3      1.0     4.0     4.5      3.0     2.0     1.6      1.0    0.2
Cumulative   0.3      1.3     5.3     9.8    12.8    14.8    16.4    17.4   17.6
Economic Rate of Return  16.52



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01     Agriculture, the single most important sector of the YAR economy,
generates about 25% of the country's GDP (Annex 1, Table 1), but the potential
for its development is constrained by limited water resources and weak
development institutions (para. 1.12). The Government's aim is to improve the
productivity of the existing area under agriculture progressively covering the
country's various regions by providing facilities and services to the farmers
for better water management techniques and modern agricultural practices
(para. 1.13).
1.02     The Government's initiative to develop agriculture, supported to a
large degree by IDA, started in 1973 in the Tihama plains (Western region)
followed by the Southern (Taiz and Ibb Governorates) and Central (Sana'a and
Dhamar) Regions and some areas (Mareb, Al-Jawf and Raada) in the East (Map
IBRD 19940). The two northern Governorates of Saadah and Hajjah and some
northern districts of the Sana'a Governorate comprising the Northern Region of
the country have benefitted very little from the Government's efforts at
promoting agricultural development in the country.
1.03     In continuation of its development drive, the Government of YAR
requested IDA to support an agricultural development project in the
above-mentioned Northern Region of the country. The proposed project was
prepared with assistance from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(FAO/CP) in March 1987 on the basis of reports of an earlier FAO/CP
identification mission (November 1986), an Italian consulting firm and the
Arab Organization for Agricultural Development.
B. The Agricultural Sector
The Macro-Economic Framework
1.04      Since the early seventies, YAR has been in the process of
transformation from a subsistence economy with a small external sector to a
more developed economy, in large part propelled by remittances from Yemenis
abroad and foreign aid. Recorded remittances in real terms peaked in 1977/78,
contributing about US$1.1 billion or 40% to GNP. Due to the economic slowdown
in neighboring oil producing countries, these inflows have declined since then
to about US$0.6 billion in 1986. Rapid economic and social progress was made



-2-
during the 1970s and early 1980s. Foreign aid, notably from friendly
neighboring countries, contributed to finance the Government's development
program. The increase in income from migrant workers' remittances
particularly benefitted .-ile in rural areas. Private initiative responded
favorably to the growth in public sector spending and private sector income.
It was further facilitated by liberal pricing pclicies and an open trade
regime.
1.05      While incomes increased during the 1970s and early 1980s, several
structural economic issues emerged. Tax revenues and external aid lagged
behind government expenditures, while maintenance of a fixed parity vis-a-vis
the US dollar resulted in a loss of international competitiveness, which was
further weakened by a rapid increase in wages. The fiscal deficit reached 32%
of GDP in 1982. With most of the deficit financed by the banking system,
liquidity expansion averaged 27% a year between 1982-84. For some time,
liquidity was partially absorbed by the rapid growth of imports and resulting
balance-of-payments deficits; however, the financing of these deficits was
clearly unsustainable, resulting in a suspension of sale of foreign exchange
by the Central Bank to the commercial banks and in a sharp depreciation of the
Yemeni Rial. This, coupled with high liquidity expansion, resulted in
increasing pressure on prices. To address this issue, the Government has
since 1983 been implementing a number of measures to reduce the fiscal deficit
(about 15% of GDP in 1986), and address its foreign exchange problem. These
measures include the introduction of a system of licensing and exchange and
payments procedures to channel scarce foreign exchange resources towards
priority imports, such as, essential foodstuffs (cereals, flour) intermediate
goods, and raw materials. With respect to the Government budget, total
current expenditures fell from 421 of GDP in 1982 to 292 in 1986, while the
expansion of domestic liquidity was reduced to 20% per annum. Inflation,
nevertheless, increased to about 302 in 1986. With official interest rates on
lending at between 9% and 151, real interest rates became highly negative.
The reduction of external resources, on which the economy remains highly
dependent to finance investment and growth, has caused investment to decline
sharply, from 361 of GDP in 1982 to 181 in 1986. However, the recent
discovery of oil and gas is expected to increase the country's foreign
exchange resources in 1988, and is also likely to reduce the Government's
budget deficit and, hence, inflationary pressures. Tnflation in YAR is
estimated to have dropped to 20% in 1987, and continuous high liquidity has
put pressure on interest rates for deposits. Based on recent IDA projections,
inflation is expected to fall below 10% by 1991. The negativity of the
interest rates would then be eliminated.
Agriculture in the Economy
1.06      Growth of the Agriculture Sector, which employs about 601 of the
domestic labor force, is constrained by generally low rainfall and scarcity of
water. Of 20 million ha of land in YAR, about 1.35 million is presently under
agriculture, of which 1.12 million ha ar^ rainfed (400 mm and above annually)
and about 0.23 million ha irrigated. An additional 3.5 million ha are suited
for agriculture, but most of this area is infrequently used due to lack of
water. About 2.15 million ha of these potentially suitable lands are in low
rainfall areas (less than 400 mm annually) and are cultivated only once every



-3-
3-4 years depending on the amount of precipitation. The uncertain
availability of water for most rainfed agricultural operations strongly
influences farm management decisions which are primarily focussed on food
security and spreading of risks, even if this impairs production efficiency or
profit.  Most of the cultivated area is owner occupied, about 10-15% operating
under sharecropping arrangements. Cereal production is still predominant
(mainly sorghum and millet), while wheat is grown in areas with higher
rainfall (above 500 mm annually) or under irrigation. In areas with assured
water supplies, production is increasingly oriented towards the market,
although the objective of food self-sufficiency for individual farm families
still receives the highest priority.
1.07      As domestic food production has been insufficient to meet the
growing demand caused by rapid income growth due to remittances and high
population growth, substantial imports have become necessary. Food and live
animal imports have been rising and amounted to US$290 million in 1979 and
US$ 511 million in 1985 (131 of GDP) (Annex 1, Table 1). Cereals and flour
dominate agricultural imports since fruit imports were banned in 1984 (see
below) and because no foreign exchange is being allocated for non-cereal
imports. Agricultural exports have been insignificant, increasing from US$2.7
million in 1980 to US$5 million in 1985. During recent years there has been a
change in the pattern of agriculture production: while wheat and maize
production has recovered to pre-drought levels, sorghum and millet production
for human consumption continues to decrease (1980:  636,000 ton, 1986:
491,000 ton) (Annex 1, Table 2). Production of vegetables and fruits has been
showing sustained rapid growth since 1980, while production of traditional
crops such as barley and dry legumes has declined. The growth in the
production of fruits and vegetables was caused by rapid income growth, a
selective ban on the import of some fruits"' and lack of foreign exchange to
import other fruits and vegetables. The decreasing importance of sorghum and
barley reflects the influence of relatively low prices, in part depressed by
import of wheat at world market prices, and possibly changing consumer
preferences and the increasing importance of sorghum fodder as livestock feed.
Livestock and Poultry
1.08      Livestock in YAR is estimated at about one million cattle, four
million sheep and goats and some 60,000 camels. Animal production remains
traditional, with little or no selection of asres made, and the mating season
is uncontrolled. Livestock are mainly attended to by women, whom the existing
extension services have hardly reached. Animal production is also handicapped
by inadequate veterinary ser-vices and meager feed supplies. As a result,
livestock performance is far below its potential. The role of livestock in
many farms has often been underestimated; the increasing use of sorghum for
fodder is a reflection of the farmers' concern for food security of his
flock. Poultry production, which started only in 1978 and often involves
commercial size operations, has experienced very high growth. In 1985, 240
broiler farms and 2 commercial layer producers were in operation; production
totalled 9.4 million broilers and 325,000 layers.
1/ The Government imposed a ban or import of apples, oranges and bananas in
1984 to encourage local production and save foreign exchange. Prior to
the ban, annual imports of these 3 fruits totalled 95,000 tons.



-4-
Marketing
1.09    Farming in YAR is essentially subsistence oriented, and only a small
portion of surplus output reaches the market. In recent years, however, an
increasing number of farmers in high rainfall or irrigated areas have grown
cash crops (fruits, vegetables and  Iat/' and sorghum as fodder) principally
for the domestic market. The marketing system involves a large number of
producers selling directly to wholesalers, small merchants or consumers.
Although there are inefficiencies within the existing marketing system (mainly
inadequate storage, grading and packing facilities), it is fairly
competitive. In general, domestically produced agricultural commodities are
freely traded. The Government is mainly involved in the import and marketing
of food grain.
1.10    Marketing and distribution of fruits and vegetables have developed
organically and provide supply coverage to the smallest settlements; however,
the system has relatively high transport and labor costs and few incentives to
improve grading and packing of product. The present marketing system appears
to reasonably satisfy the needs of many small, widely dispersed producers and
consumers. but the emergence of larger retail outlets in cities, the
development of large scale plantation industries, and the emergence of a class
of larger wholesale traders suggest that changes in the system towards higher
volume operations in selected areas are in the offing. The Government has
constructed several wholesale markets in the country; however, some of the
markets are only partially used due to the reluctance of traders to pay market
fees and a design which appears ill-suited to market users. With direct
farmer-retailer marketing arrangements still growing fast, it is now expected
that the percentage of produce entering wholesale markets will grow in the
near future. The marketing of produce stays virtually entirely in the hands
of the private sector.
1.11    Fruit and vegetable marketing has been the subject of an extensive
consultant study1' carried out under IDA Cr. 805-YAR which concluded that
aggregate demand for fruits and vegetables is likely to exceed supply for the
period until 1990, although for selected crops (tomatoes, watermelon, okra and
possibly, grapes) supply might seasonally satisfy or even exceed demand.
Thereafter, the supply is expected to grow further, and the four crops
mentioned above may regularly be available for export. The study recommended
certain measures to strengthen management of markets and improve market
intelligence, strengthen extension services for fruit and vegetable growers
and improve packaging. The study further recommended that Government's role
in marketing should be to assist the private sector in the establishment of
basic infrastructure at main markets of national importance. The Government
agrees with these recommendations and is taking appropriate action to
implement them.
1/ Qat, a stimulant plant grown in highlands.
2/ Fruit and Vegetable Marketing Study in the Yemen Arab Republic:
International Advisory Company of U.K., June 1986.



-5-
Main Constraints
1.12     Constraints to agricultural growth in YAR include:  (a) weak
agricultural support services, (b) poor water resources management, and
(c) recent restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange and the
resultant shortage of agricultural inputs.
(a) Institutional Constraints: The increasing commercialization of the
agriculture sector has been accompanied by a rapid growth in demand
for institutional services, notably extension, research and credit,
and a more elaborate role of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAF).
Lack of managerial and skilled manpower and weak institutional
performance have constrained the expansion of these services in
general. The establishment of sector-specific training
institutions, notably the agricultural faculty of the University of
Sana'a, and ongoing local and overseas training and technical
assistance efforts under various projects are expected to partially
satisfy demand particularly for skilled manpower. Actual or
proposed improvements in three principal areas of institutional
development are discussed below:
(i)    Extension and research have been the most effective in
dealing with these constraints. Foreign assistance programs
and technical assistance support development of extension
services in most of the Tihama Plain, the southern and parts
of the eastern regions which have either started or are being
developed. The impact of these recently established
extension services is now being felt in the sector. Research
is carried out by the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA)
which, supported by IDA Credit 1259-YAR, is well staffed and
is increasingly coordinating its work program with the
extension service.
(ii)   Past efforts to improve the performance of MAF have had
limited results. To enhance its effectiveness in directing
agriculture policy and developing and overseeing
implementation of development programs, the Ministry has
decided to delegate most of its functions to five existing
and newly established area development units and
authorities."'  These entities would perform MAF's
functions in the five regions into which the country is
divided. This strategy is intended to mobilize the strength
and experience of the existing area authorities in supporting
MAF's functions, while necessitating a considerable
tightening of the control of MAF's senior management over
policy, design and implementation. The Ministry envisages
1/   Tihama Development Authority, Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit,
Central Highlands Unit, Eastern Regional Development Authority, and
Northern Regional Development Authority.



-6-
several steps to improve its central coordinating role,
notably by having directors of regional area authorities
report directly to the Minister and by concentrating its
limited manpower resources on planning and budgetting
functions. The adjustment of MAF only started in July 1986
when the Eastern Regional Development Authority was created.
The Northern Regional Development Authority (NORDA), which
will execute this project, has been established (para. 3.20).
(lii)  Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB).  Credit to
farmers has been increasingly forthcoming from CACB. CACB,
established in 1982 when two existing credit institutions
were merged, has increased agricultural lending since then
(Anu.ax 2). It has been profitable so far, although a
substantial portion of its income resulted from trading
operations. Its institutional development has been weak;
efforts under the Agricultural Credit Project (2r. 1308-YAR)
to improve the institutional performance of CACB have yielded
limited results so far. With CACB being the primary source
of agricultural credit, the improvement of its performance is
essential to development of agriculture. In 1985, CACB made
about 10,000 short-term loans for YRls 440 million, and 3,100
medium-term loans for YRls 1.6 billion. CACB operates
through 11 branches and 8 subbranches located throughout the
country. Its operating costs are about 121 of outstanding
loans. CACB charges 10% interest on medium-term loans.l'
With inflation at about 202 in 1987, ' real rates are
currently negative, but are expected to become positive
(para. 1.05). The budgetary implications of the subsidized
interest rates have so far been modest as CACB covered its
losses on lending operations from its trading profits. Loan
recovery in 1986 stood at about 622. CACB's financial
position is deteriorating as a result of decreasing volume of
lending, caused in part by lack of imported equipment and
inputs and by a reduction of its highly profitable trading
operations. Recently, the Government directed CACB to resume
trading operations in agricultural inputs to stablize prices
of such inputs. Limited allocations of scarce foreign
exchange for the import of such inputs by private traders had
caused sharp price increases in the market. Steps are being
taken to address the most pressing financial and
institutional issues of CACB (Cr. 1308-YAR). Detailed
measures to further improve the performance of CACB in the
project area are presented in para. 4.08 and Annex 2, while
11   To help farmers cope with severe drought conditions in the Tihama region
and encourage farming in the newly developed border areas of Mareb and
Al-Jawf, the Government is subsidizing the interest by 3% as a temporary
measure. The Government provided a letter of intent at negotiations
confirming the temporary nature of this measure.
2/   Inflation is declining, estimated to be 15% in 1988 and 101 in 1990.



-7-
further ilnstitutional development and financial adjustment of CACB
is contemplated under a second credit project.
(b) Water Resources Management Constraints: Local laws governing water
use restrict the Government's ability to influence the farmers' free
use of the country's limited grou dwater resources, while management
of surface water is relatively well established in Yemeni law and
culture. In general, available groundwater is not used in an
efficient manner, resulting in increasing pumping costs and high
water losses due to poor conveyance and application techniques. The
key issue concerns the presently unlimited right of landowners to
drill for and pump water, and the Government's inability to restrict
such rights. Extraction of groundwater can be divided into two
categories: (i) sustainable extraction which does not in the long
run exceed the recharge, mostly practiced with shallow wells in wadi
beds and in the Tihama plain, and (ii) extraction which in the long
term exceeds recharge. The latter appears in most deep tubewell
areas on the intermontane plain, where the groundwater levels are
declining by up to 2 m per year. The project will not support
investment in areas where water extraction is unsustainable in the
long run. The potential for agricultural development in YAR depends
primarily on the efficient management of water resources, and
irrigation development should be based on in-depth study of water
resources in all regions in YAR, as have been currently undertaken
in all IDA-assisted projects in the Agriculture Sector. The
Government of YAR is conscious of the severity of the problem and
has established a high level Water Council to coordinate action at
national level. Also, the Uniied Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) is coordinating support from various donors to assist the
Government in the formulation of an appropriate water resources
management plan.
(c) Foreign Exchange Constraints: Constrained by the shortage of
foreign exchange but deLermined to fully exploit the country's
potential for production of fruits and vegetables, the Government
has imposed a ban on the imports of selected fruits and has
restricted the availability of foreign exchange for import of other
fruits and vegetables. These restrictions have had noticeable
effect on the production of some of the fruits including bananas,
papayas, oranges and apples and many vegetables. In order to
provide continuous incentives to the fruit and vegetable growers,
the Government intends to retain restriction on the imports of
fruits and vegetables at this stage. Lack of foreign exchange has
also restricted imports of agriculture inputs, notably fertilizer,
pesticides and machinery. The effect of the shortage of these
inputs on irrigated agriculture appears substantial. The Government
has indicated that it will endeavor in the future to make foreign
exchange more readily available to the Agricultural Sector. It is
expected that future oil exports will substantially ease the
shortage of foreign exchange and, hence, reduce the prevailing input
shortages.



-8-
Government Sector Stratey
1.13      The Government's strategy for the sector has been detailed in the
recently approved Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP) for the period 1987-1991. The
main objectives of the Plan are to:
(i)    improve the planning/implementation capacity of MAF;
(ii)   improve food self-sufficiency and increase agricultural exports
wherever possible;
(iii)  modernize agriculture production techniques and increase value
added;
(iv)   reduce qat production, and
(v)    increase the supply of agricultural raw materials to the domestic
manufacturing industry.
With the exception of items (ii) and probably (iv), these objectives appear
realistic. Growth of gross output of the sector, which amounted to 2.47
during the Second Five-Year Plan, is expected to increase to 3.4% per annum.
The area under agriculture is expected to increase by 1.3%, yields by 2.12
annually. The strategy to achieve these growth rates focusses on:
Mi)    improving agriculture services throughout the country,
particularly intensification of extension and credit efforts;
(ii)   enhancing the availability of agricultural inputs;
(iii)  reducing desertification through sand dune fixation;
(iv)   modernization of the livestock sector by introducing improved
breeds and disease control;
(v)    controlling of groundwater use and introduction of efficient
irrigation methods;
(vi)   improving marketing of agriculture products by providing market
and storage facilities; and
(vii)  encouraging private, mixed and cooperative enterprises in
agriculture.
Specific policies are envisaged for staff training, improving availability of
inputs, design and construction of small dams, and improving coordination
between research, extension and credit. The Government also intends to
initiate policies to encourage private investment in large, mechanized farms
and to discourage or even forbid further expansion of qat production. It is
expected that particularly fruits, vegetables and wheat would show
considerable annual growth. Total investment outlays of TFYP amount to
YRls 3,900 million (US$433 million) for agriculture (10% of the total outlay),



-9-
of which 34% would be financed by the Government. The Government's
development strategy appears largely sound; however, not all of its objectives
or strategy goals might be attainable with equal success. Notably,
implementation of measures to control groundwater use and reduce aat
production might face stiff resistance while the present exchange rates,
financial prices and production costs do not favor a rapid increase in
foodgrain production. Policies to encourage a rapid increase in irrigated
grain production on mechanized farms appear ill-advised, as local production
costs might substantially exceed world market prices and alternative crops
might have a higher rate of return.
IDA's Role in the Sector
1.14        Strategy:  IDA's strategy in the agriculture sector has been to
help raise agricultural productivity and improve farmers' living standards by
financing development projects which emphasized institutional development of
agriculture services (extension, research, credit and irrigation) and
infrastructure. IDA projects account for a large segment of total public
sector investment and IDA involvement has attracted substantial cofinancing
resources.
1.15        IDA's focus on institution building and infrastructure was
facilitated in the 1970s and early 1980s by the Government's traditional open
market economy and its generally appropriate incentive system. However,
recent measures to protect some parts of the agricultural sector to make less
foreign exchange available for input imports and to maintain a relatively
inflexible foreign exchange and interest rate regime are a matter of concern.
The Government has repeatedly indicated that most of these measures reflected
prevailing foreign exchange shortages, which are likely to become less
constraining and that there are no intentions to depart from its policy of
open market economy. In view of the apparent temporary character of most of
the policy issues and taking into account the Government's intention to make
more foreign exchange available for input imports, it appears prudent for the
time being to maintain IDA's focus on institutional development, notably of
agricultural services and of MAF, to facilitate the completion of a nationwide
extension service and to strengthen credit delivery while enhancing the import
of agricultural inputs. Simultaneously, a review of sector policies,
including those related to interest and foreign exchange rate levels and the
need for and implications of food self-sufficiency, should continue as part of
the country's macroeconomic dialogue.
1.16        Completed and Ongoing IDA-assisted Projects:  IDA has to date
assisted in financing 15 agricultural projects in YAR, of which 6 (the Tihama
I, II and IV, SURDP I, the Grain Storage and Processing, the Livestock Credit
and Processing) have been completed. In general, they have been successful in
achieving their main objectives, including the establishment and strengthening
of institutions in extension and research, but they have also represented
increased Government expenditures in the sector by way of investment and
recurrent costs.
1.17      Ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects include Tihama III
(Cr. 880-YAR), which is nearing completion and making satisfactory progress,
generally after experiencing some start-up difficulties particularly due to
delay caused in the selection of consultants. SURDP II (Cr. 1067-YAR) is



-10-
almost complete and on schedule. The ongoing Fisheries project
(Cr. 1025-YAR) has made good progress on its infrastructure components but
has been proceeding slowly on support for artisanal fisheries. Four other
agricultural projects, the Agricultural Research and Development
(Cr. 1259-YAR), the Agricultural Credit (Cr. 1308-YAR), the Central Highlands
Agricultural Development (Cr. 1453--YAR) and the Wadi Al-Jawf Project
(Cr. 1584-YAR), are at different stages of implementation. The Tihama V
Project (Cr. 1667-YAR) is in the start-up stage. The Southern Regional
Agricultural Development Project (SiUADP) (Cr. 1772-YAR) signed on June 17,
1987 has still to become effective. Difficulty in finalizing cofinancing
arrangements and delays in ratification of documents and fulfillment of
conditions for credit effectiveness have emerged as serious delaying factors
in some of the recently approved IDA credits.
1.18      Lessons Learned.  The Project Performance and Audit Reports for
Tihama I (Cr. 376-YAR) and SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR) Projects and the completion
reports on the Tihama II and IV Projects (Crs. 805- and 978-YAR) are
generally complimentary about their achievements, particularly the
implementation of the physical infrastructure and the establishment of the
extension services. Despite severe drought during 1982-85, the impact on
yields and production in the Southern and Tihama Regions served by the above
projects has been very encouraging. These reports as well as the report on
the Grain Storage and Processing Project (Cr. 636-YAR) and the Livestock
Credit and Procesking Project (Cr. 662-YAR), which encountered serious
implementation problems highlighted the following principal difficulties:
(a) delay in mobilization of the implementing agencies being newly
established; (b) shortage of technical and administrative staff;
(c) escalation in project costs due to delayed execution; (d) ineffectiveness
of monitoring and evaluation programs; (e) weak coordination between research
and extension; and (f) absence of O&M services. While progress is being made
in these areas, the lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects have
been taken into account in formulating the scope and design of subsequent
projects, including the proposed project. For example, as was done in the
regional Tihama V Project (Cr. 1667-YAR) and SRADP (Cr. 1772-YAR), in the
proposed project, linkages between research and extension would be
established through joint groups (para. 3.07), regular O&M services would be
established (para. 3.17), monitoring and evaluation services would be
properly strengthened (para. 4.14), mobilization of implementation agencies
would be expedited by setting realistic deadlines and assistance through PPF
advance (paras. 3.45 and 4.02), where needed, and timely appointment of
consultants and preparation of procurement documents (paras. 3.23, 3.24 and
3.45).
H. THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
A. Physical Features
2.01      Location and Topography:  The proposed project area encompasses the
northern part of Sana'a Governorate (22 of 35 districts) and the entire
Governorates of Saadah and Hajjah. It stretches from the lowland plains
along the Red Sea in the west to the Saudi Arabian border in the north and
the Empty Quarter in the east (Map IBRD 19941). The total land area is about
37,600 km2 (19% of the national area), of which about 10.7% (402,200 ha) is



-11-
actually cropped (Annex l, Table 3). Topographically, the area falls under
three categories: lowland coastal below 500 m above mean sea level (AMSL)
(5,500 kM2), midland regions 500-1,500 m AMSL (4,500 km2), and highlands
about 1,500 m AMSL (27,000 km2). The highlands consist of rugfed,
dissected mountains of up to 3,000 m height, with narrow wadis - and
severai intermontane plains. The region's population is about 1.7 million
out of a total of about 9.3 million for the country.
2.02      Climate:  The climatic conditions vary from warm-temperate in the
highlands to subtropical in tho midlands and to tropical on the western
coast. Mean annual rainfall varies from 700-800 mm in the Hajjah area to less
than 200 mm in the coastal plains to the west and towards the Empty Quarter to
the northeast. Ninety percent of total rainfall occurs during the main wet
season (March-September). Mean temperatures vary with altitude and range from
about 12.51C to 26°C in December to 26°C to 34°C in June/July. Annual
evapotranspiration (Penman Eto) varies from about 1,800 mm in the highlands to
over 2,500 mm on the coastal plains.
B. Water Resources
2.03      Surface Water:  The six wadis in the Hajjah Governorate produce
about 330 million cubic meters (Mm3n)of flow annually on the western slope,
of which the main wadi (Wadi Mawr) has about 237 Mm3 entering the Tihama
area. The rest of the wadis in Saadah Governorate and those flowing into the
Empty Quarter are ungauged. Under the proposed project, a program for
monitoring the surface water and a study for its development would be
implemented (para. 3.15).
2.04      Groundwater:  The principal aquifers in the area are:  (a) the
sandstone aquifers north and northwest of Saadah town, (b) limestone aquifer
units located to the south of Saadah and (c) local wadi aquifer zones formed
of unconsolidated Quaternary deposits. The estimated abstractions from these
aquifers are 61 Mm, 7 Mm3 and 8 Mm', respectively, per yeer.  The
current rate of groundwater abstraction in the project area exceeds the amount
of recharge. Consequently, the regional groundwater levels are falling at a
rate of about 1.5 m/year. The northern Sana'a plain, which forms a part of
the project area, has not been studied in isolation. However, in the Sana'a
basin as a whole, groundwater levels have been declining at a rate between
0.5 m and 2.0 m/year over the last 12 years. The shallow aquifers in the wadi
beds, however, owe their productivity to the varying annual recharge from
surface flow in the wadis which, though varied, makes the source reasonably
sustainable.
2.05      Water Quality:  The surface water flow generated by runoff from the
watershed or regenerated from saturated soil is of excellent quality.
However, spates carry a substantial quantity of sediment for which the
irrigation system designs should be adequate. The quality of groundwater is
also satisfactory for irrigation and domestic water supply schemes.
1/ In Arabic language, wadi means a valley. The term is also used as a
synonym for stream or channel.



-12-
2.06      Water Rights:  Water rights in YAR follow the principle that it is
free of charge for human and animal consumption. The use of water for
irrigation, whether from surface flow or from wells, is under private
ownership. In spate irrigated areas, the upstream landowners have priority to
divert and use the water to their full requirements, without abuse. The
irrigation systems are designed to regulate and distribute the available
surface water accordingly.
C. Organization and AgrMcultural Support Services
2.07      Existing Administrative Setup:  The project area falls within the
administrative jurisdiction of the Governors of Saadah, Hajjah and Sana'a. At
the governorate level, the provincial MAF directorates were set up in Sana'a
in the early 1970s, in Saadah in 1979 and in Hajjah in 1981. However, the
agricultural services provided by these directorates are minimal due to
insufficient funds, lack of transport facilities and shortage of technical
staff. The administrative linkages with MAF exist through the provincial
governors (para. 4.01), but the technical communications appear to be weak and
uncoordinated.
2.08      Extension and Research:  Only nine extension centers (three in
Saadah, four in Hajjah and two in Sana'a Governorates), set up under IDA
Credit 1308-YAR and a UNDP project, exist in the project area. Extension
activities are very weak as these are based on the principle of the farmer
approaching the provincial MAF office to seek advice or to buy inputs from the
provincial office which is understaffed. Also, little contact is made between
the extension service and the farmer in the field. No research activities are
being carried out in the project area. Only occasional visits are made by the
specialists of the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) to advise on specific
issues faced by the extension service.
2.09      Animal Health:  Small animal health laboratories exist in each
governorate, but funds for staff, equipment and transport are not available.
National veterinary services, assisted by ODA of the U.K., are, however,
active in Saadah and Hajjah, but are limited in scope.
2.10      Nurseries:  Five small nurseries exist in the project area, two in
Saadah, one in Hajjah and two in Sana'a. The total output of these nurseries
during 1985 and 1986 was 110,000 and 185,000 plants, respectively. These
nurseries fall short of even the present demand in the area.
2.11      Inputs:  Small quantities of the major inputs, fertilizers and plant
protection materials are supplied through the provincial MAF offices on a cash
basis. Each office also has two medium-size tractors for hire. However, due
to the difficulty of obtaining a foreign exchange allocation, and uncertain
demands in the absence of regular extension service, the private traders have
not started marketing the inputs at this stage.
2.12      Agricultural Credit:  CACB operates in the project area through
three branches--Saadah, Hajjah and Abs-and one subbranch at Khamir. Credit
activities are not yet well developed. During 1986, these branches provided,
respectively, 14% and 12b of short-term and medium-term loans of the national
lending for agricultural development.



-13-
2.13      Marketing:  The area is served by a relatively efficient network of
traditional markets through which the bulk of marketable surplus is sold
either in the region (e.g., cereals) or in the rest of the country
(e.g., fruits). There are no monopolies and the system ensures market
competitiveness for the local production. Farmers can sell their produce to
traders at farmgate or through agents in the market. Buyers rely otl visual
assessment of quality, since quality standards or grading systems have not
been formally established in the country (para. 1.10).
2.14      Rural Organizations:  The development of rural infrastructure is
carried out by Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCD), previously
known as Local Development Associations (LDA). Each LCCD has a democratically
elected administrative board comprising a Chairman, Secretary Gereral and
Treasurer. Each council is represented at the governorate level, where
activities are coordinated and a number of services provided. At the national
level, the LCCDs are represented by the Confederation of Local Councils for
Cooperative Development (CLCCD), which is one of the most powerful
organizations in YAR. The organizational structure of LCCDs is very effective
for carrying out the responsibility of providing local infrastructure works
such as feeder roads, rural water supply, social welfare, public utility
buildings, etc.
2.15      Infrastructure:  The main access -within the project area is provided
by the Sana'a-Saadah and Amran-Hajjah highways. In addition to these, most
rural communities are interlinked by an extensive network of secondary roads
which are rough tracks with steep gradients and sharp curves and are suitable
only for 4-wheel drive vehicles. Some 760 km of new access roads have been
constructed in the project area during the last four years. However, owing to
past security problems and remoteness of t;he area, the access and feeder road
network in the northern and eastern districts of the project area is less
developed. Only one airport exists in the area, at Saadah, from where there
is a weekly connection to Sana'a. Microwave telecommunication systems
interconnect the principal urban centers with Sana'a. The Government of YAR
is providing facilities to the rural population, through CLCCD, for obtaining
safe drinking water supply. For that purpose, a project for the construction
of 42 village water supply schemes estimated to cost US$13.45 (Foreign
Exchange US$8.5 million) has been prepared (Annex 3) to serve a population of
about 210,000 inhabitants in the project area. This project would be
implemented after the necessary financing has been arranged for which the
Government has approached various donors.
D. hrigation and Agricultural Practices
2.16      Irrigation Practices:  Different types of irrigation in the project
area are as follows:



-14-
Table 2.1: Irrigation Practices
Northern
Saadah     Ha1jah      Sana'a     Total
------ ('000 ha) ------
Irrigated Areas
- Deep tubewells (mainly Saadah Plain)      6.3         2.0       10.3        18.6
- Shallow wells/seasonal diversions
(Highlands)                             2.5        11.0        2.6        16.1
- Spate/Groundwater (Tihama)                 -         12.0         -         12.0
Subtotal                               8.8        25.0       12.9        46.7
Rainfed Areas                              42.5        99.2      213.8       355.5
Total Crop Area /_                         51.3       124.2      226.7       402.2
/1 Annex 1, Table 3.
2.17      In the midlands and highland valleys of the project area, irrigation
is from intermittent wadi flows and shallow aquifers, in conjunction with
rainfall on terraced valley floors. The occasional flood flows are diverted
through unlined canals to small terraces supplemented by pumping from shallow
wells. Big farmers are increasingly using piped distribution systems
facilitating direct watering of individual plots or buried PVC or galvanized
pipelines leading to a series of terraces. In the Tihama plains, mostly spate
irrigation is practiced. However, due to the irregular nature of spates,
irrigation is variable and risk-prone. Farmers have traditionally used
shallow wells in conjunction with spate irrigation to reduce risks and are
also investing in deep boreholes and motorized pumping. Overall irrigation
efficiency is low (less than 302) due to heavy infiltration and operational
losses.
2.18      In areas where wadi diversions are restricted, e.g. in Northern
Sana'a and Saadah Governorates, irrigation is predominantly based on
groundwater abstraction using deep tubewells (100-140 m). In most cases,
water is pumped at rates of 6-15 liters per second (l/s) either directly into
open earth distribution channels or increasingly into overhead or ground-level
storage tanks or basins for subsequent distribution to small basins through
either surface or buried pipe distribution systems. Increasing interest is
evident in some areas in the use of minisprinkler irrigation methods for
orchard development.
2.19      Land Use:  The Northern Region is largely a mountainous area where
land suitable for agriculture is confined to the highland or intermontane
plains, terraced areas of the mountains and valley walls, the valley floors of
the western escarpment which broaden as they approach the plain and the
lowland Tihama Plain. Of the estimated land area (3.8 million ha), only about
101 is cultivated. Field crops occupy more than 60% of the cultivated area
and over 701 of the area cropped. Sorghum predominates at all elevations
mostly as a summer crop, but wheat and barley are also important summer and



-15-
winter crops in highland areas. Perennial crops are grown generally only
where perennial irrigation is available (Annex 1, Table 4). Alfalfa, grown
for fodder, occupies less than 5% of the perennially irrigated area but is
important because of its widespread distribution and for the quantity of water
used.
2.20      Land Tenure:  All land is privately owned except for about 1% which
is under the control of waqf (religious trust). Seventy-five percent of the
land is totally owner-occupied and a further 202 is in mixed owner-tenant
occupancy, leaving only 52 as purely tenanted. Tenancies and mixed
ownership-tenancy arrangements occur most frequently on the larger holdings
found in lowland Tihama areas. In such cases, customary arrangements exist
for the sharing of crop income between tenant, landlord and well-owner, as
shown in Table 2.2. The inputs are generally the tenant's responsibilty, but
it varies.
Table 2.2: Sharecropping
Share of Income (2)
Type of Production Unit           Tenant           Landlord         Well Owner
Pump Irrigation                  33                33                33
Spate Irrigated                  50                50                  -
Rainfed                          50                50
For high labor-demanding crops, a special arrangement may apply with the
sharecropper receiving a larger share.
2.21      Farm Size:  About 48% of 126,270 agricultural holdings (Annex 1,
Table 5) have less than 1 ha, but at the other extreme, only about 62 have
more than 10 ha (about 202 of total area). The average sizes for Saadah,
Hajjah and Sana'a Governorates are 2.3 ha, 2.8 ha and 3.1 ha, respectively.
In general, holding size corresponds with the area that can be managed by a
family unit. In the case of the larger tenanted or mixed owner tenant units,
the area corresponds with the number of families.
2.22      Agricultural Practices.  Crop intensity is generally below 100X,
although it may be slightly higher under well irrigation and may reach up to
1502 in some small valley bottoms with springs and wells. Land preparation
and seeding are undergoing considerable change, particularly in the lowlands
and in the high plateaus of Saadah where tractors are being increasingly used
even by small farmers. On terraced lands in the midlands, attitudinal
changes, due to the availability of remittances from members of farming
families working in Saudi Arabia, have led to a lack of maintenance and upkeep
of the terraced system. Farmers select their seed from the growing crop for
the forthcoming season and store them in containers on the farm, but demand is
increasing for improved vegetable seed and fruit tree planting material.
These demands are currently not being fully satisfied. Average yields suffer
from low levels of inputs, poor cultural practices and, in many cases, poor
irrigation practices.



-16-
2.23      Agricultural Development Potential:  In view of the limited
absorptive capacity of YAR, only about 38 of the 65 districts in the northern
region with high development potential would be covered during the proposed
six-year project implementation period. These include 23,000 agricultural
holdings of about 92,000 ha (Annex 1, Table 3) of diverse agro-ecological
conditions from deep/shallow wells and spate irrigation in the lowland plains
and valley bottoms, rainwater harvesting in the upland plains to highland
rainfed crops. The main well-irrigated crops are cereals, coffee (mostly for
local consumption), vegetables and deciduous fruits, while cereals are mainly
grown on spate irrigation and in the rainfed areas. Qat, as usual, is grown
on the slopes of the highlands in an environment similar to that for coffee.
The scope for improving agricultural production (primarily of cereals and
deciduous  ruits) lies mainly in the high rainfall areas through increased
inputs and with the introduction of extension and demonstration in
well-irrigated and spate areas where improved water management practices could
be introduced. The project will not provide any investment to increase gat
production. On the contrary, qat production will have to compete with
project-supported fruit and vegetable production, which has a substantial
development potential.
E. Animal Production
2.24      Livestock raising is a traditional activity fully integrated with
crop production, particularly in the highland areas where the bulk of draught
power is provided by animals. They are also considered as a reserve of cash,
to be sold when necessary. No reliable statistical data exist on livestock
numbers and production in the project area.
2.25      One of the main constraints to increased livestock production is the
prevalence of endemic diseases and the occurrence of sporadic major
epidemics. The most important animal diseases in YAR are rinderpest and
sheep-pox, outbreaks of which can have disastrous effects. Farmers are being
gradually made aware of the benefits of drugs and vaccines through the
operation of the ODA-assisted veterinary services project.
F. Role of Women
2.26      Women occupy an important role in the agricultural development of
Yemen Arab Republic, especially after the male migration to oil-producing
countries during the Seventies. During the mid-Seventies, an anthropological
study on rural women was completed which laid down the foundation for the
inclusion of a small pilot home economics component and also regular
agricultura: extension for growing crops in Phase I of the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project (SURDP). The study showed that rural women were
highly interested in the program and demonstrated willingness to be trained,
educated and guided. The initial success in SURDP I encouraged the inclusion
of a more extensive women's program in Phase II of SURDP and the Tihama (III,
IV and V) Projects, followed by a major component in SRADP. The thrust of the
program was directed towards producing an awareness of rural women in the
areas of health, child care, house management and teaching rural women basic
reading and writing. In addition, training in sewing, embroidery, cooking and
food processing were important aspects of the program.



-17-
2.27     The role of women in the project area in the north is no different
than in the southern and the western parts of the country. Field observatione
indicate that, in addition to usual home activities (cooking, child care, food
processing, etc.), women also carry out substantial field work, such as,
seeding, weeding and harvesting, and care of livestock, including feeding and
milking. Although the responsibilities of women remain the same throughout
the country, one can sense clearly the conservative nature of the social
system in the project area and the sensitivity of women's issues under tribal
social systems. For this reason, the project should aim at initiating the
women's program on a modest scale so as not to induce an undesirable reaction
which could jeopardize future programs.
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Obiectives. Rationale and Scope
3.01     Project Obiectives:  The main objectives of the project are to:
(a) increase agricultural productivity and incomes of farmers by means of
ti) improved agricultural services, (ii) better management of land and water
resources and manpower and (iii) improved irrigation and agricultural
practices; and (b) improve the health/nutrition standards of the rural
families through provision of development opportunities for rural women. This
would help increase agricultural production primarily of sorghum, wheat,
alfalfa, fruits and vegetables in the project area, thus contributing to
efficient import substitution accompanied by improvement in the living
standards of the rural population. The project will also meet the
Government's priority objective of accelerated development of the Northern
Region comprising the two northern Governorates of Saadah and Hajjah and the
northern part of the Sana'a Governorate because of sociopolitical
considerations and for ensuring more balanced regional development in the
country.
3.02     Rationale for IDA Involvement:  IDA has successfully been involved in
the development of YAR's agriculture sector and has assisted the Government in
establishing a sizable infrastructure and several support services, which were
nonexistent 15 years ago. Due to the constraints faced in regard to the
availability of almost all resources required for agricultural development,
including water, manpower, and foreign exchange for the. import of inputs on
the one hand, and the growing need for agricultural products on the other, the
Government, in an effort to raise production, has resorted to some measures of
intervention. Nevertheless, the private sector is still encouraged to play an
important role in agricultural development, notably in new initiatives to
increase local cereal, fruit and vegetable production.  The Government plans
to continue the development process so that its services and assistance reach
all regions of the country progressively, with priority being attached to the
northern region and parts of the eastern region of the country which have not
yet received such assistance. On the basis of its past experience, IDA can
play an important role in assisting the Government in designing suitable
components and implementing the projects by which agricultural development and
the establishment of support services could be initiated in those regions in
accordance with the above-proposed strategy. Continuous involvement in the
sector and participation in projects which should help promote balanced



-18-
regional development would help IDA in pursuing an active dialogue with the
Government for carrying out sector reform and effectively addressing some of
the sector issues, e.g. establishment of viable institutions, efficient use of
resources, and development of manpower.
3.03     Proiect Scope:  The project aims at providing services and technical
and financial support for agricultural development of the Northern Region
along the same lines as has been successfully undertaken in the Western and
Southern Regions of the country. The project components would include the
following:
(a)  Regional Agricultural Services
(i)    Establishment of regional extension service--construction if
buildings; provision of vehicles, equipment and machinery.
(ii)   Establishment of Nurseries.
(iii) Applied Research.
(iv)   Veterinary Services.
(b) Agricultural Credit
Mi)    Support to CACB.
(ii)   Support to farmers for irrigation improvement, purchase of
equipment and machinery and establishment of orchards.
(iii) Establishment of revolving fund for purchase of farm inputs.
(c) Irrigation Development
Mi)    Site investigation and study of about 20 sites for
construction of recharge dams.
(ii)   Design and construction of about 10 recharge dams.
(d) Operation and Maintenance (0&M) Service
(i)    Establishment of regular O&M units at the headquarters and
provision of mobile units for two branch offices of Northern
Regional Development Authority (NORDA).
(ii)   Training of O&M staff for the Mareb Dam Project.
(e) Prolect Headquarters
(i)    Construction of buildings at Amran, Saadah and Hajjah.
(ii)   Provision of vehicles and office equipment.



-19-
(f) Technical Assistance and TraininA
(i)    Consultants for Agriculture, Engineering and Management,
Water Resources investigation and design.
(ii)   Support to ARA.
(iii) Training.
B. Detailed Project Features
Regional Aricultural Services (Base Cost: US$6.65 Million)
3.04      Structure of Extension Service:  The project would establish an
agricultural extension service in each governoraze with direct responsibility
for all extension services including rural develcpment for women. The
Northern Regional Development Authority (NORDA) (para. 4.02) would be
responsible for the overall extension programs of the region and, through a
single line of command and with clear definition of responsibility and
accountability, would develop the extension sections of the governorates to
enable them eventually to take over all extension functions. The organization
would ensure strict planning, proper monitoring and evaluation, staff
training, technical support and strong and effective coordination with
research. Also, linkage would be established with the extension service of
the Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1453-YAR), which
is presently covering the southern part of the Governorate of Sana'a.
3.05      The regional service would bring extension within the reach of about
27,000 rural households on 23,000 agricultural units in 38 nahias (districts)
with the best immediate and sustainable development prospects. This would
entail the construction of 39 extension centers, 6 block centers, support to 3
subregional offices and establishment of a headquarters unit at Amran. The
extension development would also entail establishment of an extension training
center at Al Baun and establishment of four demonstration farms to test
improved techniques for irrigation layout and water use, annual and perennial
crop production and for staff training and demonstration to farmers. Local
staff, generally from the project area, are expected to be available for
recruitment as extensionists during the six-year project implementation
period. The agents would receive preliminary training at Al Baun. They would
work under regular supervision by extension supervisors and would also receive
technical support and in-service training from subject matter specialists
(SMSs) in special areas of expertise. Each block center serving about 5-10
extension centers would be staffed with one supervisor and 3-5 SM8s. To allow
for mobility, each agent would be provided with a motorcycle or a miniwagon.
The locations of extension facilities are shown in Annex 1, Table 6.
3.06      The service would support two complementary and mutually reinforcing
approaches to extension and information transfer based on personal contacts
between the extension agents and farmers and field demonstrations on the one
hand and the use of mass communication and audiovisual aids on the other. As



-20-
for personal contacts, these would be achieved through field demonstrations,
regular farm visits to lead farmers and about ten contact farmers per lead
farmer, and field days to be conducted with the participation of farmers, ARA
and CACB representatives, and private traders.
3.07      Close interrelationship of the extension service with research would
be developed through an intensive schedule of interactions between the
extension and research staff in research fields as well as farmers' fields
where verification trials and field demonstrations are conducted. Extension
agents would thus become more acquainted with research findings and the
research staff with field applications of such findings and with farmers'
problems. To ensure strong linkages, a regional research station under ARA
would be established at Al Baun. NORDA and ARA would institute joint
extension and research groups with farmers' participation at both the central
and subregional levels to review progress and impact of extension and the
adequacy of technological packages and to identify farmers' problems to be
addressed through research. For the establishment of the extension service
including rural development for women (para. 3.08), civil works estimated to
cost about US$3.85 million would mainly comprise construction of extension
centers, block centers, and training centers. The cost of vehicles and
equipment would be about US$1.85 million.
3.08      Rural Development for Women:  The project area is underdeveloped
inasmuch as it has a strong tribal character allowing very little exposure to
women. However, there is substantial participation by women in the
agriculture activities in a supporting role (para. 2.27). The project would
adopt a modest approach by gathering data on women activities, identify areas
of interest to women and define means of resolving issues pertaining to rural
development for women. Simultaneously, the project would initiate activities
in home economics, e.g. embroidery, sewing, cooking, literacy and child and
health care, all of which are expected to create a sense of participation by
women in the rural uplift of the project area. The project would guide women
in preparation of foods which would fill nutritional gaps, such as, use of
beans and pulses to meet the protein needs and inclusion of fruits and
vegetables in the diet. This initial approach would establish women's
confidence in the program which will be followed in the future by training in
other agricultural activities, such as, crop and livestock care and food
processing. The program would be run by a senior woman specialist appointed
at headquarters, supported by three specialists at selected block centers.
Each of these experts would have two locally recruited female counterparts.
They will be provided with transport, office equipment and other needed
facilities.
3.09      Retional Veterinary Service:  Animal health services are currently
provided in the project area by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(MAF) as part of the national program assisted by the Overseas Development
Authority (ODA) of the United Kingdom (U.K.). The existing facilities under
the present program fall much short of the actual needs (para. 2.09). The
project would aim at expanding and strengthening the veterinary service by
providing additional facilities for routine vaccination, parasite control,
animal treatment and collection of disease information. Specific investments
would include provision of laboratory equipment for the newly constructed
clinics at Saadah and Hajjah, training of laboratory technicians and provision



-21-
of vehicles for use in each governorate. The staff to be provided under the
project would include two veterinary officers, two veterinary assistants and
six technicians. The veterinary staff in the region would be under the
administrative control of NORDA, but would be part of the national veterinary
service and as such would receive technical direction and veterinary supplies
from MAF.
3.10      Establishment of Nurseries:  The present demand for seedlings
exceeds the existing output of five nurseries in the project area which
produced 185,000 plants in 1986. Incremental demand arising from the project
extension activity is expected to be 660,000 fruit tree and coffee seedlings
by the sixth year including some 200,000 banana plants. The renewal of aging
coffee plantations would be encouraged by providing new seedlings in an effort
to counter gat expansion. The project aims at increasing the output to about
0.7 million plants annually. This would be achieved by (a) phasing out a poor
facility at Dhumeid to be replaced by a new nursery at Magash, (b) planning
production targets to meet the specific demands of the area and (c) expanding
production at the other four nurseries by improving infrastructure and
management. The investment cost for the establishment of nurseries is
estimated to be US$0.78 million. The nurseries would achieve the objective of
being self-supporting. Working capital for the nurseries would be provided at
the outset but in order that the funds are continuously available, the
Government would establish a revolving fund by December 31, 1989, to which the
proceeds from the plant sales would be deposited. The sale prices of the
plants would be set to recover the full production costs. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations [para. 6.01(a)].
3.11      Applied Research:  The agricultural research in YAR is the
responsibility of the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) established under
Cr. 1259-YAR. Due to limited resources, the activities of ARA are restricted
to certain areas with very little in the northern region. The project would
support the establishment of a nucleus research station under ARA to serve the
highlands plains where relevant research under rainfed and irrigated
conditions could be carried out. Under the proposed plan, part of the Al-Baun
area, and part of the existing agricultural machinery as required for Research
would be transferred to ARA. In turn, ARA would produce an agricultural
research development plan relevant to the needs of the area and would assign
the needed staff to carry out the plan. This plan would be reviewed and
discussed during negotiations. The project would further provide for seven
staff housing units plus an office and laboratory, in addition to provision of
two large and three mini 4-wheel drive vehicles. Furthermore, six staff-years
(sly) of expatriate staff and 12 staff-months (s/m) of consultancy would be
provided to assist in the execution of horticultural and animal production
research programs. This component, excluding technical assistance, is
estimated to cost US$0.57 million.
Agricltural Credit (Total Cost: US$4.8 Million)
3.12      Support to CACB:  CACB is the only institution currently lending to
the Agriculture Sector (Annex 2). In order to strengthen its operations in
the project area, the project would provide buildings for field offices,
vehicles and equipment. Total cost of institutional assistance to CACB is
estimated at US$0.59 million.



-22-
3.13      Medium-term Credit:  Under the project, as part of the extension
program, farmers are expected to make investments on about 1,300 farms to
improve water use efficiency. These investments would include water
distribution systems, minisprinklers, drip irrigation, well improvement and
development of orchards. A further 500 farms would only develop orchards. It
is estimated that credit requirement for on-farm investments during the
project implementation period would be the equivalent of US$8.46 million. It
is assumed that about 501 of the farmers who would make investments in the
project area would approach CACB for credit. CACB would finance an average of
about 902 of investment costs and farmer's own contribution would be at least
102. IDA would disburse 65% of CACB's loan disbursements. Farm models show
very high financial rates of return on farm investments with incremental
output value being more than twice the incremental cost of production, in
part, because investment benefits coincide with the impact of extension
service. Cash flow analysis indicates that loans can be repaid in about 3-5
years. NORDA specialist staff would be trained to assist farmers in preparing
credit applications and supervising execution of investments. CACB would
appoint field officers to each block center to assist the extension service to
develop credit operations.
Farm Inputs (Base Cost: US$2.8 million)
3.14      In order to overcome the shortage of fertilizers and plant
protection chemicals in the project area, the project would provide funds for
importation of incremental requirement of 10,000 metric tons of various
fertilizers and 50 tons of plant protection chemicals valued at a total cost
of US$2.8 million. The fertilizers and chemicals would be imported by CACB
and distributed for sale to farmers in the project area with emphasis on
distribution through private traders. A revolving fund would be established
for that purpose (para. 4.08).
rrigation Development (Base Cost: US$2.1 million)
3.15      The irrigation component under the project aims at:  (a) better
water management of areas presently under irrigation through demonstrations,
technical assistance and guidance by the extension service (para. 3.05) and
through credit support (para. 3.13); (b) investigation and study of about 20
sites for location and construction of recharge dams to regulate flows and
improve water availability; (c) studying the feasibility of wadi development
in the coastal area of the northern region (para. 3.23); and (d) establishment
of rainfall, streamflow and groundwater measuring stations in the ungauged
areas of the region (para. 2.03).
3.16      Recharge Dams:  A pilot scheme for the construction of
recharge-dams/spate-breakers to conserve flood flows for irrigation and
groundwater recharge in the project area would be implemented. Through the
data and information obtained from this scheme, a possible expanded program of
small dam construction to increase aquifer recharge could be pursued in the
future. It is envisaged that pretiminary site invectigation and study of
about 20 sites by consulting engineers (para. 3.45) would lead to design and
construction, by contract, of about 10 recharge dams.



-23-
Establishment of Operation & Maintenance (OW) Service
(Base Cost: US$1.20 million)
3.17      To attain adequate operation and maintenance of project facilities
and infrastructure constructed in the agriculture sector, an O&M service would
be established for the Northern Region. The objective of this component would
be to organize local staff for the service on a regular basis, train the staff
and provide them with necessary facilities to undertake O&M functions. In
addition, overseas training would be provided to the local resident staff of
the Mareb Dam O&M Unit to enable them to safely operate the dam (para. 3.19).
3.18      NORADEP O&M Service:  The project would provide funds for equipping
a workshop at Amran and for purchase of equipment and machinery (Annex 1,
Table 7) for use in the region. In addition, three mobile workshops would be
provided, one for each of the subregional offices, at the governorate
headquarters. The investment cost for this component is estimated at
US$0.85 million.
3.19      Mareb Dam O&M:  Mareb Dam infrastructure, being constructed with
financial assistance from the Government of Abu Dhabi, is scheduled for
completion in 1988. The Government of YAR has requested IDA to assist in the
establishment of the O&M organization for the Mareb Dam Project. The project
would provide funds for overseas training of the Dam Resident Engineer
t18 staff-months (s/m)], Deputy Resident Engineer (6 s/m), Civil Engineer
3 s/rm) and Mechanical Engineer (3 s/m) and for purchase of three 4-wheel
drive vehicles for the O&M staff. Assistance would also be provided through
the existing dam construction consultants or hiring a new consultant (14 s/m)
for planning the establishment of the O&M organization for the Dam. The base
cost for the component is estimated at US$0.35 million.
Establisment of Permanent Headquarters for NORDA (Base Cost: US$2.70 Million)
3.20      The Government of YAR has established a semiautonomous Northern
Regional Development Authority (NORDA), on the same lines as the Tihama
Development Authority (TDA), for carrying out development in the northern
Governorates of Saadah, Hajjah and the northern part of the Sana'a
Governorate. NORDA would be the implementing agency for the proposed
NORADEP. The project would provide assistance for the establishment of the
permanent headquarters for NORDA at Amran.
3.21      The assistance would include construction of buildings:  650 square
meters (m2) of offices, 2,040 m2 of residences and 300 ml of workshop at
Amran; 150 m2 of offices and 500 m2 of residences each at Saadah and
Hajjah and 150 m2 of offices at Sana'a. In addition to providing office
equipment, funds would be provided for the purchase of 19 long-wheel base and
23 short-wheel base 4-WD vehicles, 1 bus and 7 pickup trucks to meet the
transportation needs of NORDA staff engaged on NORADEP during the 6-year
implementation period. The recurrent base costs for NORDA over the project
implementation period are estimated at US$2.8 million equivalent in YRls and
will be borne by the Government.



-24-
Technical Assistace and Traing (Base Cost: U&$ .6 mi2ion)
3.22      Technical Assistance (fA):  The project will provide about 68
staff-years (sly) of technical assistance (Annex 1, Table 8) in the fields of
management, agricultural extension, veterinary services, rural development for
women, engineering support, irrigation improvement and operation and
maintenance service for buildings, irrigation works and water supply schemes.
TA has been designed such that the expatriate experts would gradually be
phased out over 4-5 years and replaced by their national counterparts.
3.23      Technical assistance to NORDA in the fields of agriculture will
comprise 36 sly, and engineering 11 sly. Seven s/y of assistance will be
provided to ARA for carrying out applied research in the project area. These
expatriate experts would be recruited generally from within the region on an
individual basis to augment the implementation unit as well as train their
counterparts to assume full project responsibility before it goes into
operation. Fourteen sly of engineering consultants, to be financed by UNDP,
will be for carrying out field investigation, design and construction
supervision, check dams and the project buildings and for carrying out
feasibility studies for wadi improvement in the Tihama area.
3.24      The terms of reference (TOR) of the experts and consultants as
agreed to with the borrower (Working Paper 1, Project File) will emphasize
training of the Yemeni staff (Annex 1, Table 9). This would pave the way for
a smooth and effective takeover by the Yemenis of the major tasks of the
project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would appoint qualified and experienced experts in accordance with the
appointment schedule given in Annex 1, Table 8 [para. 6.01(b)].
3.25      Training (Base Cost:  US$0.4 million):  In addition to on-the-job
training to be provided by the expatriate experts, the project will provide
for foreign as well as local training. The foreign training will comprise
10 s/y of long-term course work and 28 s/m of study tours in irrigation
engineering, water resources, horticulture, animal husbandry and management.
The study tours would involve visits by senior counterparts to countries where
successful programs in the relevant fields are under implementation. The
thrust of the local training under the project would mainly be on
project-related technology and methodology.
C. Cost Estimate
3.26      Project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated to be YRls 489 million (US$39.4 million equivalent) with a foreign
exchange component of US$22.8 million accounting for 58% of total cost. The
base costs are calculated using unit costs of July 1987 adjusted to the end of
January 1988. The costs of vehicles, equipment and machinery (Annex 1,
Table 7) include necessary spare parts. The project will be implemented over
six years with disbursement period extending to seven years. Physical
contingencies have been calculated at 10-152. Annual allowances for expected
price increases on the foreign exchange component were calculated at 5.62 for
1987, 5.4b for 1988, none in 1989 and 1.32 thereafter.  Local inflation
factors have been estimated at 202 for 1987, 15% for 1988-1989, 10% for 1990



-25-
and 8% for subsequent years. Calculations have been based on the assumption
that purchasing power parity would be maintained over the project
implementation period. The estimate does not include taxes and duties from
which the project is exempt. The total recurrent cost during the project
implementation period and subsequently each year are YRls 108.3 million and
YRls 26.0 million. Assurances from the Government were obtained during
negotiations that sufficient funds would be made available to meet the full
operation and maintenance costs of all facilities and services to be
established under the project [para. 6.01(c)]. Details of cost estimates
summarized below (Table 3.1) are presented in Annex 1, Tables l0(a),(b) and
(c).
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimate4
(731, '000)                                    IU# '0001
_. _................. _   .. _. ..............    . ................... ............................................. ... ....
I Total                                      7 total
I For1egn Base                               S Forolgn  fass
Local    Foreign   Total   Cocharig   Costs   Local   Fortg.  Total   Exchange  Coats
:::s::3:t tasa: - :S:Sf    : S::2: :::fl:t:s* ts:3: tn tt t,*fl**: t :3::33  3*3:: Sftl:33:lh:*33$t
t. ARICULTURAL SERllCES                      3,251.2  64133. 1 120,784.3           56    42    S,916.0  75103.? 13,420.1     S8       42
G.  mIlCuLTUAAL PCIoI                        IS:,Si1.6  20.790.6  36.302.2      5?      13  1.723.5  2.310.1  4.033.6         5?      13
C. IRRIG.AtION OEVELOPNT                    Il,SS3.0  1, 125.3  18.708.3        38       t   1,281.0   791. ?  2.0t OM        38       a
3. EStABLISNNEIT Of 08  StERICE                653.1  10.330.5  10.983.5        94       4      72.6  1,147.8  1,220.4        94      4
E. ESTABISINIINT 07PROJECT IiEIIOQ ERS     31.108,S tSS.t S0. I  00.t8 37              1t  3.t01.0  2.05S6.3  S.1t.3        3?      17
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TAININlS         8. 31. S 44.51t.4  53. 143.2       84      is    951.1   4.045.? t.904. 8        84      Is
total BASELINE COSTS                         12 1, In. 3 1S6 t98. 0 289, 37. 3    r      100  13.459.9 18, tS 3 32.2tS. 3       S8    tOO
Phntical  Cetlnt aciia                     13.141.8 111,091.1  30.238.9        5       1O  1.,480.9  1.899O0 3.359.9        17       t0
Pric . -otier if                           76t,938.0  91S990.4 I16,928.4       54      58  t1682.6  2,125.5  3, 80&0         56     12
Total PROECT COSTS                           211,225.1 211,879.S 489.104.6        57    169  16,603.3 22.,7118 39.183.1        S8      122
/1 Differences are due to rounding.
D. Finaning
3.27               The IDA credit of US$17.6 million equivalent (SDR 12.5 million)
would finance 771 of the foreign exchange component. UNDP would provide a
grant of US$3.4 million (152 of foreign cost) for technical assistance and the
balance would be financed by the Government. The financing plan would be as
in Table 3.2 below.



- 26 -
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
IDA               UNOP              YAR Govt.                 TOTAL
Foreign   Local    Foreign   Local   Foreign  Local  Tota1
------------------------------ USS million) -------------------------------
Civil Works
- Buildings
Headquarters              1.10    -                                         1.40      1.10    1.40   2.50
Extension                 11.9S    -                                        2.90      1.95    2.90   4.85
CACS                      0.20    -                                         0.20      0.20    0.20   0.40
- Irrigation Schemes          1.05    -                                         1.65      1.05    1.65   2.70
- Nurseries & Demon-
stration Farms            0.15    -                                         0.30      0.15    0.30   0.45
Goods & Materials
- Vehicles for NORDA          1.95    -                                         0.15      1.95    O.1S   2.10
- Equipment & Machinery
Extension                 1.25    -                                        .0.15      1.25    0.15   1.40
O&H                       1.05    -                                         0.05      1.05    0.05   1.10
- Vehicles and Equipment
for CACB                  0.20                                              -         0.20    -       0.20
Credit
- Medium-Term Credit          2.40    -                                         1.85      2.40    1.85   4.25
- Revolving Fund              3.10    -                                         -         3.10    -        3.10
Services
- Engineering Consultants   -          -          2.15       -                  0.25      2.15    0.25   2.40
- Other Consultants           3.20    -                                         0.90      3.20    0.90   4.10
- Short-term Consultants    -          -          0.50       -                  0.0S      0.50    0.05   0.55
FellowshiR Training           -        -          0.75       -                  0.35      0.75    0.35   1.10
Recurrent Cost                -        -                               1.80 La  6.40      1.80    6.40   8.20
TfOTAL            17.60    -           3.40       -         1.80    16.60    22.80   16.60  39.40
LI  Items and Services imported but available locally.
Signing of an agreement for a UNDP grant of US$3.4 million is a condition of
IDA credit effectiveness [para. 6.02(a)].



-27-
3.28      The Borrower of the IDA credit would be the Government of YAR which,
through MAF, NORDA and CACB, will utilize the credit in accordance with the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement.
E. Procurement
3.29      Procurement of all items to be financed by IDA will be carried out
in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement of May 1985 and Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants of August 1981.
3.30      Works:  The construction of headquarters buildings and block center
at Amran estimated to cost US$2.92 million (IDA financing: US$1.26 million)
including contingencies would be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). The construction of small and scattered buildings and
irrigation schemes which cannot be grouped and would each cost less than
US$400,000 would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) up to an
aggregate of US$7.58 million (IDA Financing: US$3.19 million) (para. 3.32).
3.31      Goods:  The procurement of equipment, machinery and vehicles
(US$4.10 million) (Annex 1, Table 7), and fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals (US$3.10 million) totalling US$7.2 million (IDA financing:
US$6.87 million) including contingencies would be made through ICB. About six
urgently needed vehicles costing an aggregate of about US$100,000 would be
procured through loc4l shopping.
3.32      Miscellaneous:  Equipment for on-farm development up to an aggregate
of US$2.4 million equivalent for which the farmers will receive credit from
CACB will be procured on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of
such farmers. Items of miscellaneous goods (tools, minor equipment,
instruments, etc.), which cannot be grouped and would cost less than US$50,000
each, could be procured through LCB up to an aggregate cost of US$500,000 over
the entire project implementation period. LCB procedures of YAR are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project. However, in order to make these procedures fully consistent with IDA
procurement guidelines, the Government agreed at negotiations that (a) all
bidders shall be treated equally in terms of the requirement of furnishing bid
or performance security, (b) bids arriving after the stipulated deadline for
the submission of bids shall be rejected and returned to the bidder unopened
and (c) negotiations are not permitted with nonresponsive bidders to make
their bids responsive [para. 6.01(d)].
3.33      Services:  The cost (US$2.40 million) of engineering consultants for
carrying out wadi development feasibility studies and design and construction
supervision of civil works, is to be financed by UNDP. The selection of the
consultants will be done by UNDP in consultation with the Government of YAR.
3.34      Contract Review:  For goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more, and for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more, IDA would review and approve the text of invitation to
bid, tender documents and contracts before they are issued/awarded. IDA would
thus carry out prior review of procurement documents ard awards for at least
US$15.0 million out of a total cost of US$18.45 million (IDA financing:
US$11.95 million) for procurement of goods and works.



-28-
3.36         The procurement methods  to be followed for project elements  to be
financed by IDA are summarized below:
Table 3.3: Procurement Plan'1
Pr_gurement Pro.edures
Force        Not
LoI      Other      Account   Applicable        Jotal
----------------------------- (USS Million) -----------------
Civil Works
Buildings           2.92(1.26)   4.88(2.14)                  0.30                    8.10(3.4)
Irrigation Schemes    -           2.70(1.05)                                         2.70(1.05)
Vehicles. Equipment
& Machinery         4.10(3.77)   0.50(0.40)  0.10(0.08)                              4.70(4.25)
Fertilizers and
Plant Protection
Chemicals           3.10(3.10)                                                       3.10(3.10)
Agricultural Credit                               4.25(2.40)                           4.25(2.40)
Nurseries                                         0.15(0.15)                           0.15(0.15)
Consultants &
Experts                                         7.10(3.25)                           7.10(3.25)
Training                                          1.10                                 1.10
Recurrent Costs                                                         8.20           8.20
TOTAL    10.12(8.13)   8.08(3.59) 12.70(5.88)  0.30    8.20                39.40(17.6)
Li Figures presented in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA credit.
Costs include contingencies.



-29-
F. Disbursements
3.36     The proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 12.50 million (US$17.6 million
equivalent) would be disbursed in seven years in accordance with the IDA
guidelines for withdrawal of proceeds of loans/credits as follows:
Table 3.4: Disbursement
Catesory                      Expenditure to be Financed
Amount
(US$ Million)                   2
Civil Works
Buildings and
Irrigation Schemes         4.1         451 of Total Expenditure
Goods
Vehicles, Machinery           3.9        100X of Foreign Expenditure
& Equipment                              and 802 of items
procured locally
Incremental Fertilizer        3.0        100l   of Foreign Expenditure
& Plant Protection
Chemicals
Agricultural Credit           2.2        65S of CACB's loan
disbursements
Technical Assistance            3.0        1001 of Foreign Expenditure
PPF Advance                     0.4        1001 of Foreign Expenditure
Unallocated                     1.0
TOTAL:              17.6
3.37     Special Account:  Provision would be made that NORDA would open and
maintain a US$1.0 million Special Account for funding the items to be financed
by rDA (para. 3.27). The IDA financing would be channelled through a
commercial bank of the choice of the Central Bank of Yemen. The Special
Account would be operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. IDA
may, however, directly accept, in appropriate cases, withdrawal applications
in excess of US$50,000 for direct payment and agreement to reimburse.
3.38     Full documentation is necessary for all foreign currency denominated
or local currency contracts above US$20,000 equivalent. For all contracts
under US$20,000 equivalent in foreign exchange or in local currency, however,
withdrawals from the Credit Account will be carried out on the basis of
Statement of Expenditure (SOE). Related contracts and supporting documents,



-30-
such as invoices, bills of lading, receipts, etc., would be retained by NORDA
and made available for review by IDA staff on supervision missions. The
internal control and operational arrangements required for SOE operation are
satisfactory.
3.39     The estimated schedule of IDA disbursements given below (detailed in
Annex 1, Table 11) is generally consistent with the country profile.
Table 3.5: Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements                             IDA Fiscal Year
1988       89    90    91    92    93    94       95     96
-            ----(US$ Million)  ---------------
Annual              0.3?"    1.0   4.0   4.5   3.0   2.0   1.6        1.0    0.2
Cumulative          0.3       1.3   5.3   9.8  12.8  14.8  16.4    17.4   17.6
Profile (%)         2.0       7.4  30.1  55.7  72.7  84.1  93.2    99.0  100.0
YAR Portfolio (2)   2.0      12.0  30.0  51.0  71.0  85.0  94.0   100.0  100.0
-l  Part of PPF would be disbursed during FY 1988.  Regular disbursements would
start in FY 1989.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.40     NORDA would maintain separate records and accounts reflecting the
project receipts and expenditures clearly identifying the goods and services
procured and works performed. Also, CACB would maintain separate accounts for
the short- and medium-term lending operations in the region.
3.41     The accounts of both the project and NORDA would be audited annually
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor's report would include,
inter alia, a statement that the funds advanced by IDA for the Special Account
were used for the purpose for which they were provided. MAF's auditing
practices on the previous and ongoing IDA-assisted projects have been
satisfactory. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that only those auditing firms whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to IDA would be employed for this project and that a
certified copy of audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would
be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of each fiscal year
[para. 6.01(e)].
Ic. Environment  hnpact
3.42     The project is not expected to generate any environmental hazards,
although the use of agricultural chemicals, mainly fertilizers and pesticides,
is expected to increase as a result of the project extension activities. The
selection of pesticides in extension packages and the dangers inherent in, and
the optimum use of, farm chemicals would be important elements of the training
of extension staff and of the advice to be given to farmers. Also,



-31-
dealers/agents, because of their important role in educating the farmers,
would be advised of the proper storage of chemicals and disposal of chemical
containers. Moreover, pesticides would be prudently and economically used and
such pest control would be complemented with nonchemical measures including
the use of resistant crop varieties and improved cultural practices such as
proper rotation, time of planting and irrigation which in many cases
effectively reduce disease incidence. The extension service in coordination
with research would monitor these activities in addition to guiding farmers in
the use of farm machinery to avoid deep ploughing in areas characterized by
shallow soils to minimize soil erosion. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations that selection, handling and use of pesticides
in extension packages would be in accordance with IDA guidelines
(para. 6.01(f)].
3.43     The change in cropping pattern to fruit trees and vegetables and
construction of small recharge dams are expected to create greenery in the
project area which will have a more pleasant effect on the environment. The
production of fruits and vegetables and support to improve coffee plantation
are expected to pose a challenge to growing qat cultivation. None of the
historic cultural monuments would be affected nor will there be any
significant effect on the land use pattern.
I. Riparian Issues
3.44     All flows (spates and base flow) occurring in the Northern region
have catchment areas within the political boundary of YAR; therefore, there is
no international rights problem in the use and regulation of these flows for
agricultural development of the region.
J. Status of Project Preparation
3.45     For construction of buildings, which will be the major work to be
started during the first two years, MAF has standard designs which were
evolved in IDA-supported projects in the Tihama and the Southern regions.
These would be adapted for the conditions of the Northern region by the
engineering section of MAF and the consultants. A PPF Advance (P-454-YAR) of
US$400,000 has been approved by IDA to facilitate immediate appointment by MAF
of experts for carrying out this work. For the recharge dams to be
constructed during the third-fifth years of the project, the consulting
engineers to be appointed for the project (paras. 3.16 and 3.22) would carry
out necessary investigations and prepare the designs during the first two
years of project implementation. At negotiations, the Government of YAR
presented (a) a short list for consultant's contract, (b) standard bidding
documents for works and (c) a site selection plan for the headquarters and
other buildings proposed to be constructed under the project. The TORs for
consultants and other experts were also agreed upon.
I



-32-
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01     Implementing and Executing Agencies:  Northern Regional Development
Authority (NORDA), established by the Government of YAR (para. 4.02), would be
responsible for all aspects of project implementation including, but not
limited to, field investigations, planning, design, procurement, construction
and O&M. CACB would handle the short- and medium-term credit requirements for
agricultural development of the region. AMA would be carrying out applied
research. The organizational strucLure of these institutions is presented in
charts (World Bank E40211-1 and E40211-3).
4.02     NORDA:  The Government of YAR has completed legislative action to
establish Northern Regional Development Authority (NORDA) as a semiautonomous
body on the same lines as the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) established
in 1973 and the Eastern Regional Development Authority established in June
1987. NORDA would have Agricultural, Engineering, Administrative and Finance
Departments headed by directors under a general directorate. The Director
General would also be the head of the implementation unit for NORADEP. The
Governors would provide administrative coordination to NORDA through the
existing directorates of agriculture which would be adequately staffed to
function under the technical control of NORDA. The key positions of NORDA
would be filled by drawing experienced staff from TDA and SURDU surplus to
their requirements. The appointment of key staff for the entity has been
decided by MAF; the formal approval by the Government is expected shortly.
4.03     CACB:  CACB would be responsible for implementation of the credit
component of the project. Under the project, the following actions would be
taken to improve the efficiency in CACB's operations: (a) CACB would, in
consultation with NORDA, appoint a senior manager as Credit Coordinator (C.C.)
responsible for all CACB activities in the project area and reporting directly
to the chairman of CACB. His role would be to strengthen field operations, to
initiate and implement appropriate lending procedures and to tighten control
functions. C.C. would work closely with NORDA management to guide
implementation of the credit component; (b) CACB would appoint credit officers
to all project block centers. These officers would report to the CACB branch
managers in the area, would initiate and prepare loan applications in
conjunction with extension activities and would ensure proper followup. The
credit officers would also supervise outstanding loans and take part in loan
recovery activities. In addition, credit officers would help implement
special training activities on how to assist farmers in obtaining credit;
(c) MAF would appoint a technical committee consisting of the senior managers
of CACB, MAF and NORDA and headed by the Chairman of NORDA to monitor and
coordinate provision of credit and fertilizer and plant protection chemicals
in the project area. The committee will meet quarterly. An Assurance to
these effects was received at negotiations [para. 6.01(g)]. (d) CACB would
review lending guidelines in the project area to improve the accessibility of
small farmers to institutional credit by particularly adjusting security
requirements and improving procurement and delivery arrangements for equipment
and other inputs; and (e) CACB, in coordination with the Extension Service,
would adjust the focus of lending operations to areas with sustainable
groundwater resources, specifically for loans related to improvement of
irrigation efficiency. Appointment of the Credit Coordinator is a condition
for credit effectiveness (para. 6.02(b)].
229?C32



-33-
B. Project hnplementation
4.04     Project implementation is planned for six years with the seventh year
provided to complete all disbursements as shown in Chart (World
Bank E40211-5). A PPF advance of US$410,000 (P-454-YAR) has been approved by
IDA to facilitate project mobilization.
4.05     Agricultural Extension:  The proposed project would establish an
Extension Division in NORDA at the central level and subregional offices at
the governorate level. The staffing strength of the service is given in Annex
1, Table 9. Upon project completion, the service would continue operating on
the regional basis until such time that a national service would be
established to take over administration of the governorate-level services.
4.06     Agricultural Credit:  The project would provide funds for medium-term
credit to the farmers to improve irrigation efficiency, purchase agricultural
machinery and establish orchards (para. 3.13). The average investment cost
per ha would be: for installation of PVC pipes YRls 13,500, for
minisprinklers about YRls 37,000, for orchards between YRls 30,000 and
YRls 98,000 and for farm machinery about YRls 40,000. Farmers would receive
assistance from CACB field credit officers or specially trained extension
agents to prepare loan arplications. CACB would give specific attention to
reducing processing time of loan applications and would ensure that (i) the
maximum charge to Borrower for loan appraisal and processing would not exceed
0.5% of the loan amount, (ii) repayments would be about three years for pipes
and up to five years for orchards with the grace period reflecting the initial
productivity of the investment and (iii) CACB would invest up to 902 of total
investment cost.
4.07     The Government of YAR, through the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY), would
onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to CACB under terms and conditions of a
subsidiary loan agreement, which were discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations. The status of CACB and the problems associated with its
operation are discussed in Annex 2. The costs of providing credit in YAR are
high due in part to the difficult location of many farms in the rugged
terrain. Therefore, an operating margin of 8% appears the minimum required
for an efficiently operating credit unit. Hence, CACB would initially pay 22
annually on the disbursed and outstanding balance of the CBY loan. Repayment
of the loan would start following full disbursement of the credit component of
the IDA credit or after 5 years, whichever is earlier and would consist of
forty equal semiannual installments. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that CACB would execute its lending operations in accordance with
agreed upon lending guidelines [para 6.01(h)].  The Government has informed
IDA of CACB's 1988, 1989 and 1990 targets for lending volume and operating
costs; it has also confirmed that it will provide CACB with the resources to
attain such targets. CACB expects to recover 70% of current and past interest
and principal payments due during 1988, 1989 and 1990. Signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement between CACB and MAF would be a condition of credit
effectiveness [para. 6.02(c)].
4.08     Farm Inputs:  The project would finance import of fertilizers and
plant protection chemicals in the project area, which are in short supply due
to the current scarcity of foreign exchange in YAR. The fertilizer and



-34-
chemicals would be imported by the Government through CACB and would be sold
to farmers in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to IDA. A similar
arrangement is already being practiced in YAR whereby the Government channels
the urea donations from Saudi Arabia to farmers through private traders. The
project would initially finance the imports of inputs through CACB, who will
establish a revolving fund to assure a continuous supply of fertilizers in the
project area. The fund would receive its income in Yemeni Rials from sale of
fertilizers and chemicals as imported. The fund would buy foreign exchange
from the Government to finance input imports and would also pay for local
costs of inland transportation and storage.  This arrangement will ensure
continuous supply for fertilizers to meet the growing needs of the project
area. During negotiations, assurance were obtained that the Government will
establish the proposed revolving fund for import of inputs on the above lines
by June 30, 1990, grant import licenses and provide foreign exchatnge for
continuous operation of the fund [para. 6.01(i)].
4.09     Engineering Services:  All engineering services, viz. design of
buildings, planning and design of irrigation schemes and recharge dams,
support to the extension service in the establishment of demonstration farms
for improved water management practices, studies for wadi development in the
Tihama area of the Northern region and establishment of water measuring
stations, will be administered by the Engineering Department of NORDA through
its planning and design, infrastructure and O&M sections. UNDP-appointed
consulting engineers will assist the Engineering Department in carrying out
the various functions (para. 3.22). Terms of Reference for the consultants
were agreed at appraisal and are included in Working Document 1 of the Project
File.
4.10     Regional O&M Service:  This service will be under the direct control
of the O&M section of the Department of Engineering and the O&M sections of
the Directorates of respective governorates. The Chief O&M Engineer, in
coordination with the design engineers of the Department and the consultants,
would prepare O&M guidelines for the infrastructure constructed under the
project. The governorate-level O&M staff would ensure that the O&M guidelines
are strictly adhered to.
4.11     Training and Fellowships:  The thrust of training (para. 3.25) will
be on project-related technology through special courses, in-service training
and foreign training. The training program will be prepared by NORDA in
consultation with IDA and implemented through the respective directorates.
For overseas training, arrangements will be made with suitable overseas
universities and institutions specializing in the respective fields. Local
training will be handled directly by the experts who, under the directions of
the training unit of the extension service, will be responsible for the
overall planning, preparation of curricula and implementation of the training
program. The counterpart training will be included in the terms of reference
of the expatriate experts/consultants who will be required to report on
progress periodically. Assurances were obtained from Government during
negotiations that a detailed training program, including the curricula, would
be submitted to IDA no later than January 1, 1989 [para. 6.01(j)].



-35-
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.12     Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) will be performed by the M&E Unit to
be established under the direct control of NORDA and assisted by staff of the
various services and by three M&E officers, one in each of the three
Governorates. The latter will be appointed in project year two. Upon
completion of the project, the overall M&E responsibilities will be
transferred to the directorates of Agriculture at the governorate level.
4.13     The functions of the M&E Unit will include monitoring:  (a) in
physical and financial terms of project inputs (such as, staff recruitment,
training and institutional development, procurement, implementation of civil
works and the activities of the various agricultural services established
under the project) against the annual work program; (b) the impact of the
extension service, including that of the rural development for women, in terms
of adoption of specific recommendations by farmers; and (c) the status of
surface and groundwater rescurces. For project inputs monitoring, each
governorate will submit periodical reports to the respective divisions at the
NORDA headquarters. Such reports will indicate both financial and physical
progress compared with annual plan targets. For project output monitoring,
each Governorate will report annually, on a set of indicators, measuring
progress towards specific objectives. Adoption rate and yield surveys
developed by the Extension Division will be undertaken annually at the
governorate level to assess the impact of the technological packages
disseminated under the project and thus the impact of the project on the
farming community. The field supervisors at the governorate level, with the
assistance of the SMSs at both the governorate and the headquarters levels,
will collate and summarize the information, and prepare semiannual progress
reports which would highlight achievements, problems and recommendations for
consideration by the Extension Division. They will also maintain data
obtained over time on adoption rate and yield surveys as the basis for
evaluating the benefits derived by farmers from the technological packages.
4.14     The M&E system will comprise baseline data which will include
stratification of landholders and farm units by farming system, and detailed
suummary of resources, potential and constraints. These data will be utilized
by the Extension Service in devising packages suitable to farmers. Rainfall
will also be recorded, groundwater levels observed and surface water evaluated
on a regional basis. A mid-term, in-depth analysis of the impact of the
project will be carried out at the end of the third year of project
implementation. Assurances were be obtained from the Government during
negotiations that TORs for establishment of a system of monitoring and
evaluation would to forwarded by IDA for review and comments by October 1,
1988 and a mid-term review of the project would be carried out at the end of
1991 [para. 6.01(k)].
D. Progress Reporting
4.15     NORDA will prepare progress reports at least once every six months in
accordance with a format satisfactory to IDA and submit them to IDA within two
months following the report periods. The reports will be comprehensive,
covering all aspects of project implementation and will be prepared on the



-36-
same format as being done presently in SURDP II and Tihama projects. The
Government will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the lines
suggested by IDA and submit to IDA no later than six months after the credit
closing date, or by such later date as the Government and IDA may agree upon.
Assurances to these effects were obtained from the Government at negotiations
[para. 6.01(1)].
E. Lands for Project Faciities
4.16     The Government owns enough land in the project area needed for the
construction of extension buildings and demonstration farms and would allocate
the same to the project through necessary notification. The lands required
for the recharge dams and other project facilities, not belonging to the
Government, if any, will be acquired by the Government for the project well
ahead of the time of construction. Assurances were obtained from the
Government at negotiations that all lands required for the construction of
project works would be acquired in a timely manner and that the Government
would take all actions necessary to preclude delays in the implementation of
project works [para. 6.01(m)].
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Production
5.01      The project will promote agricultural development through the
establishment and strengthening of agricultural support services, including
MAF, and improvement of design and construction supervision of recharge dams.
5.02      Agricultural development, promoted through establishment of
extension service, will be carried out by means of introduction of improved
technology and in selected cases through additional investment to improve
irrigation efficiency and establish orchards. Investment in irrigation
improvement and farm equipment will increase water use efficiency from less
than 352 at present to about 60% on areas with irrigation basins and PVC pipes
and about 85% in areas with minisprinklers and drop emitters. In the
intermontane Plains, where rainfall is mostly low and uncertain, farms with
tubewells predominantly grow sorghum, alfalfa and some vegetables and fruits,
using water at a low efficiency. It is estimated that about 1,600 farms with
tubewells would be covered during the project implementation period, of which
80% would adopt extension recommendations to enhance production and 201 would
also invest to improve irrigation efficiency. Extension will focus on limited
use of fertilizer on sorghum and vegetable crops, improvement of the use of
vegetable varieties and pest control measures. Fruit and vine improvement
will include better pruning, use of fertilizer, better water use and pest
control.  No change in cropping pattern has been assumed.  Effect of project
implementation on crop yields is detailed in Annex 1, Table 12.
5.03      In highland wadis, farms usually receive water from spate, rainfall
and supplementary wells, and have about the same cropping pattern as on the
intermontane plains.  Because the project will particularly focus on areas
with assured water supply, it is assumed that about 1,800 farmers in this area



-37-
will be reached by the project. Of those, all will adopt extension
recommendations, while 320 farmers would also invest in improved irrigation
efficiency and new fruit orchards. Yield increases will be similar to those
of the intermontane plain farms. In the midland and lowland areas, rainfall
in parts of the midlands exceeds 400 mm annually, but over most of the area is
too low and unreliable for sustained rainfed production. Only about 7,700
farms located in areas with spate or rechargeable groundwater resources have
potential for development. Most farms grow sorghum on about 50% of their
area, and smaller quantities of vegetables, tropical fruits and industrial
crops. It is estimated that some 2,050 farms will adopt extension
recommendations, of which 250 would make investments to improve irrigation and
expand the area of fruit trees. In the highlands, about 1,150 farmers will
participate in the project. The cropping pattern for this area includes
sorghum, legumes, wheat or barley, lentils, vegetables and tree crops (largely
coffee). It is estimated that about 500 farmers will also invest in
establishment of additional areas of fruit trees and coffee. The increase in
tree crops will reduce the area under foodcrops. Details of eight farm models
representing the various areas and project induced improvements are detailed
in Annex 1, Table 13 and in the Project File (Working Document 2).
5.04      As a result of the project, and through project year six, some 6,600
farm units, covering 34,380 ha would start to receive assistance from the new
regional extension service as detailed in Table 5.1:
Table 5.1: Farm Size and Area Under Development"'
Size of    No. of        Total
Type of Farm              Classification /2    Farm       Farms        Area
(ha)                    (ha)
1. Intermontane Plain           (A)             3.0        1,360       4,080
(B)             3.0          240         720
2. Highland Wadis               (A)             2.0        1,480       2,960
(B)             2.0          320         640
3. Lowland                      (A)             12.0       1,800      21,600
(B)            12.0          250       3,000
4. Highland Terraces            (A)              1.2         650          780
(B)             1.2          500         600
TOTAL:                                           6,600      34,380
Li During project implementation period.
*  A - Extension only.  B = Extension, Investment in land and irrigation
improvement.
In addition, rural women will be assisted in primary health care and nutrition
techniques that would improve their standard of living and that of their
families. As a result of improved techniques and improved irrigation water
availability, average crop yields and production would increase (Annex 1,
Table 12). Incremental yields would range from 121 for sorghum to 20% for
vegetables, 16%-66X for papaya and average 100% for coffee. Expected yield



-38-
increases are based on field experience in the project area and research
results of the Agricultural Research Authority, which have demonstrated the
potential for yield increases particularly for fruits and vegetables.
Extension packages for the major crops in the project area have been
successfully applied in other regions of the country.
5.05     Prices.  Prices for inputs and outputs used in the eight farm models
are average farmgate prices. Relatively high product prices not only reflect
the lack of imports, but also high marketing and farm input costs, the latter
a result of shortages caused by inadequate allocations of foreign exchange.
Prices of cereals are high, partly due to consumer preferences for locally
grown products and partly because a relatively small percentage of production
that enters trade. Consumer behaviour with respect to food security so far
has not been affected by the Government's regular imports of wheat and flour.
B. Financhd Results
5.06     For each category of farm model (Intermontane plains, Highland wadis,
Lowlands and Highland terraces) (para 5.02), two variants have been developed,
representing farms (a) without and. (b) with additional investment in
irrigation and orchards. Farm size ranges from 1.2 ha for the Highland
terrace farm to 12 ha for the Lowland farm. Most production units in the
project area are owner occupied, except in the lowland area, where
sharecropping and ownership-sharecropping arrangements are common
(para. 2.20). As a result of crop intensification and application of improved
techniques, the annual demand for labor will increase by about 2,000
manyears. Most of the labor requirements are expected to be met from family
labor, only when seasonal peak labor demand exceeds all available family labor
will people be hired. Hiring will usually be limited to the absolute
minimum, as labor costs are perceived as high. No labor shortages are
foreseen as a result of the project.
5.07     Farm Incomes.  Financial returns of the farm models are attractive;
incremental annual farm family benefits at full development range from YRls
2,700 in the Highland terrace farms without investment to YRls 209,500 for
Lowland farms with investment. Rewards to labor (farm income divided by the
number of days family labor has worked) increase by up to 562 as a result of
the project, as detailed in Table 5.2. Sharecroppers of Lowland farms would
see their farm labor rewards increase between 142 and 382, depending on the
sharecropping arrangement.



-39-
Table 5.2: Return to Labor of Project Farm Modelsa1
Net Farm Income          Labor Return
Without       With     Without       With
Type of Farm'lm2               Project      Project   Prolect      Project
(YRls '000/year)          (YRls/manday)
1A                           23.2        30.8         82         103
1B                           23.2        81.8         82         169
2A                           16.9        21.2        116         136
2B                           16.9        40.7        116         181
3A                          109.4       136.0         88         103
3B                          109.4       318.9         88         140
4A                           13.9        16.6        114         130
4B                           13.9        21.1        114         157
/   Compared at year 8 of investment implementation.
/2 See Table 5.1 for classification.
5.08      Other Project Benefits.  Project benefits exclude the effects of the
construction of 10 recharge dams. The experimental character of the recharge
dams makes it difficult to assess the extent of the benefits of such dams on a
continuing basis; it is estimated that the dams would improve water
availability for up to 1,000 ha of agricultural land presently receiving
intermittent flows. The cost of these dams and the benefits have not been
used in the economic analysis.
C. Taxes and Cost Recovery
5.09      Taxes.  The project is expected to generate a considerable increase
in Government revenues through the Zakat (a religious tithe) and Cooperation
Tax. Zakat is a flat tax on the gross value of production; 102 for spate and
rainfed areas, and 5% for pump-irrigated areas. The cooperation tax is 2.51
of the gross value of production of all farms. Incremental annual Zakat and
cooperation taxes at full development (year 8) resulting from the project are
estimated at about YRls 17.8 million (US$2.0 million) (Annex 1, Table 14).
Additional taxes might result from an increase in the size of the herd of
individual farmers, made possible by an increase in fodder production. These
taxes are fully collected in YAR.
5.10      Cost Recovery.  The incremental zakat and cooperation taxes would
cover 45% of the investment in infrastructure and the annual recurrent costs
of the extension service and NORDA headquarters (Annex 1, Table 15).
5.11      Impact on Government Budget:  As a result of the project, the
Government would by year 5 incur an expenditure in 1987 prices of about
YRls 14.2 million in annual recurrent costs, out of which YRlB 6.7 million for
operation, maintenance and replacement of equipment, and YRls 7.5 million for



-40-
salaries, training and other staffing costs. This compares to annual
incremental Government revenues of YRis 17.8 million (para. 5.09). Total
annual Government outlays for the agricultural sector approximate over
YRls 200 million.
D. Benefits and Benefiiaries
5.12      The main project benefits would result from:  (a) the introduction
of improved on-farm technology, (b) on-farm investments to improve the
efficiency of irrigation water, (c) on-farm investments for establishing fruit
and coffee orchards and (d) technical assistance and training to help local
women in agricultural and nonagricultural activities. The quantifiable
economic benefits of the project would derive from the incremental production
of sorghum, wheat, pulses, fruits, vegetables, alfalfa and coffee (Annex 1,
Table 12). Net value of farm production, at 1987 prices, is expected to
increase by 36% from YRls 307 million in year 8 in the without-project
situation to YRls 418 million in the with-project situation. Incremental
production of cereals resulting from the project (about 5,000 tons) would lead
to an actual reduction of imports and a saving of foreign exchange amounting
to US$.7 million annually.
Beneiiaies
5.13      The project is expected to provide extension services to some 9,200
farm families or 55,000 people during the project implementation period.
However, the number of farmers receiving extension is expected to show
substantial further growth after project completion. The beneficiaries are
mostly poor farmers who will receive training and technical packages for
agricultural development for the first time during the current drive for
modernization of the agriculture sector in YAR.
5.14     Economic Prices:  The economic farmgate prices for traded goods
(cereals, fruits, coffee, tobacco, fertilizer) are parity prices derived from
the Bank's commodity price projections of September 2, 1987, expressed in 1987
constant US$ and YRls, with appropriate adjustment for handling, marketing and
transportation costs. In the case of cereals, the strong preference of
Yemenis for locally grown sorghum and wheat has been taken into account by a
10% premium over world market prices. Because the pure mocha coffee produced
in Yemen fetches a substantial premium on world markets due to its quality and
scarcity, the economic price has been adjusted by 402 over the average world
market prices. Alfalfa, stover and straw are treated as nontraded goods; the
economic prices were derived by applying an 0.85 standard conversion factor to
the ,inancial prices. In the case of fruits and vegetables, import parity
prices have been calculated (Annex 1, Table 16). However, these prices
substantially exceed economic prices calculated by applying the standard
conversion factor mainly due to the high transportation costs and the quality
differentials. In addition, since fruits and vegetables are unlikely to be
imported in the near future, it was considered prudent to use the lower
economic prices based on the standard conversion factor (0.85). For
internationally traded commodities, it hes been assumed that financial prices
would converge over the next about nine years towards projected world market
prices. For fruits and vegetables, it has been assumed that present financial
prices would decrease over nine years by 25% on account of production



-41-
increasingly satisfying demand. For inputs and local investment costs, a
conversion factor of 0.85 has been applied in the economic analysis. Water
has been valued at the cost of the nearest alternative source (deep wells).
Financial and economic prices are detailed in Annex 1, Table 16.
E. Economie Rate of Return
5.15     Quantifiable benefits in the economic analysis of the agricultural
compo'nents of the project were derived from the incremental farm production of
cereals, fruits, vegetables, and by-products from 6,600 farms on 33,600 ha.
Economic costs include: (i) 1002 of the investment costs for the extension
service, 757 of the costs of NORDA headquarters, 100% of the institutional
development costs of CACB and of all technical assistance for the project;
(ii) 100% the recurrent costs to operate the extension service and NORDA
headquarters; (iii) farm production and investment costs and (iv) 25% of the
costs of O&M services. All benefits and costs were calculated in constant
1987 prices. A project life of 25 years has been assumed, equipment has been
replaced as necessary and salvage value has been imputed. Since some
technological improvements will occur in the next 25 years, without-project
situation reflects correspondingly increased production. On the basis of the
costs and benefits streams summarized in Annex 1, Table 17, and detailed in
the Project File, the economic rate of return of the agriculture component of
the project is 16.51. The net present value of net benefits assuming a 12%
opportunity cost of capital is YRls 68.3 million. Sensitivity tests show
(Annex 1, Table 18) that a drop in benefits of 201 would reduce the ERR to
9.31; or a two-year timelag of benefits would reduce the ERR to 10.2X. A
similar increase in costs would reduce the ERR to 10.7%. An analysis of
switching values indicates the ERR would remain above 121 if costs increase by
13S or benefits decrease by 12%.
F. Proleet Risks
5.16     The risks of this project concern those normally associated with
project benefits, costs, development period and implementation delays, and
have been tested in the sensitivity analysis. One factor which could affect
project viability and which other IDA-assisted projects in YAR have faced in
recent years is that of an inadequate budgetary support resulting in delays in
construction and staffing schedule. However, in view of the expected oil
revenues by end of 1988 and the priority that the Government attaches to
development of the Northern Region, this potential risk is eliminated.
Assurance was obtained during negotiations that the required budget for the
project to cover the Government portion of the expenditure would be provided
on time [paras. 3.26 and 6.01(c)].
5.17     One risk which might affect the project concerns the speed with which
the newly established NORDA will be able to mold itself into an effectively
operating institution. The appointment of key staff of NORDA was discussed at
negotiations to ensure early mobilization of the Authority. A second risk
concerns the effectiveness of the extension service in convincing contact
farmers to adopt new farming practices. This would be addressed by the
project by extensive demonstration of the recommended practices on the
farmers' fields and the demonstration farms attached to each block center and
by facilitating easy access by the farmers to agricultural credit. Also, the



-42-
project will aim at hiring extension staff from the project area so that an
atmosphere of trust and confidence prevails between the extension service and
the farmers. Finally, the economic viability of the project critically hinges
upon the speed with which present restrictions on imports, notably of farm
inputs, would be removed by the Government. The Government has indicated it
will facilitate higher imports of essential inputs; future oil exports will
increase the amount of foreign exchange available to the Government to do so.
Arrangements will be made under this project to allow for regular imports of
fertilizers (paras. 3.14 and 4.08). These arrangements would ensure that key
inputs would be made available on a regular basis.
VL AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government of
YAR to the effect that:
(a) the Government would establish a revolving fund by December 31, 1989
for operation of nurseries and ensure that the sale prices would be
set to recover the production costs (para. 3.10);
(b) the Government would appoint qualified and experienced experts in
accordance with the appointmert schedule given in Annex 1, Table 8
(para. 3.24);
(c) sufficient funds would be made available to meet the full operation
and maintenance costs of the project (paras. 3.26 and 5.16);
(d) for LCB, all bidders shall be treated equally in terms of the
requirement of furnishing bid or performance security and bids
arriving after the stipulated deadline for the submission of bids
shall be rejected and returned to the bidder unopened, and
negotiations are not permitted with nonresponsive bidders to make
their bids responsive (para. 3.32);
(e) only those auditing firms whose qualifications and experience are
acceptable to IDA would be employed for this project and that a
certified copy of audited accounts, together with auditor's report,
would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 3.41);
(f) selection, handling and use of pesticides in extension packages
would be in accordance with IDA guidelines (para. 3.42);
(g) MAF would appoint a technical committee consisting of the senior
managers of CACB, MAF and NORDA and headed by the Chairman of NORDA
to monitor and coordinate provision of credit and fertilizer and
plant protection chemicals in the project area and that the
committee will meet quarterly (para. 4.03);
(h) CACB will execute its lending operations in accordance with agreed
upon lending guidelines (para. 4.07);



-43-
(M) the Government would establish a revolving fund by June 30, 1990 for
import of fertilizers and chemicals, and thereafter would grant
import licenses and provide foreign exchange for continuous
operation of the fund (para. 4.08);
(j) a detailed training program including the curricula would be
submitted to IDA no later than January 1, 1989 (para. 4.11);
(k) TORs for the establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation
would be forwarded to IDA by October 1, 1988 and a mid-term review
of the project would be carried out at the end of 1991 (para. 4.14);
(1) NORDA would prepare progress reports at least once every six months
and prepare a PCR no later than six months after the credit closing
date (para. 4.15); and
(m) all lands required for the construction of project works would be
acquired in a timely manner and that Government would take all
actions necessary to preclude delays in the implementation of
project works (para. 4.16).
6.02      The conditions for effectiveness of IDA credit would be:
(a) signing of agreement for a UNDP grant of $3.4 million (para. 3.27);
(b) appointment of Credit Coordinator (para. 4.03); and
(c) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between CACB and MAF
(para. 4.07).
6.03      Subject to the conditions set out above being met, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDRs 12.5 million (US$17.6 million equivalent)
on standard terms with 40 years maturity. The Borrower would be the
Government of Yemen Arab Republic.



-44-                                   ANNEX l
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
OgRTHERN gEGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Sector Development - Key indicators
1960-7G     1970-a1      1982-84      198
Agriculture Annual Growth Rate (X)                  -           3.7          1.0        8.S
Agriculture as X of GOP LI LI                      52            34           25         24
]2Z9    Jim      Ji9i    1i98      ili    .124 M    I_
Food and Live Animal Imports (US$ million)        290      420     636      452      500     417      511
Agricultural Exports (US$ million)                 -       2.7     2.0      1.0      1.0     5.0      5.0
Food Imports as X of GOP                           16       17      21       13       17      12       13
aI At current factor cost.
LA Excluding value added fron aat.
Source: CPO Statistical Yearbook. 1986.
300sc



-45-                             ANNEX I
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Agricultural Production in YAR
(1979 - 1986)
Year
i~~Z~ M            im         I i                   Jim    Jim 
__ _ _ _ ____ -   ooo tons) ------------------------------
Wheat                 63         65         70         67         34         37         63         85
Sorghum/Millet      632         636        635        581        268        278        281        491
Barley                4S         48         54         53         30         28'        31         41
Maize                 48         49         53         59         30         40         43         49
Sesame                 6          6          s          S          4          3          4          s
Pulses/Dry            80         84         80         75         40         38         44         47
Vegetables           254        261        291        305        326        346        370        432
Tomatoes           NA La       NA Li        78         92        101        104        112         NA
Potato               127        131        138        150        164        195        196        208
Grapes                55         56         64         68         72         90         81        103
Dates                  6          6          6          6          6         13         13         13
Other Fruits          76         77         81         85         85         88         92        104
Alfalfa               43         44         45         49         49         49         52         60
Coffee                 3.5        3.6        3.6        3.3        3.0        4.2        4          4
Cotton                 2.8        5.0        5.0        6.5        6.5        3.7        4          4
Tobacco                7.0        7.0        6.3        6.7        5.7        4.3        5          5
L.vestock
Red Meat              20         20         20         21         22         22         23         24
Poultry               16         16         17         17         18         19         19         NA
Fish                  15         16         17         17         17         18         21         22
Milk                  85         90         9S         95         97         99        105        107
Eggs (Million)       111        117        122        122        128        178        214        232
LI NA = Not Available.
source:  Ministry of Agriculture & Fisheries, Agricultural Statistics 1984, and CPO
Statistical Yearbook, 1986.
3oosc



YEMEN ARAB REPU8LIC
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL QJVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProSect Coveraae
Rural        Rural      Hembers Per   Households                 Agric.      Field     Total     z Field    Total
Nahia   Ponpuaion   Households         Household    In Vllaae   Vllages   HDldinns   Crops   Crop Area    Crcs         Area
------------------------------------ (No.) -------------------------------------    ----- (ha) ------                  000 ha)
A. ORDA AREA
Saadah                     9       145,700        24.640        6.04            26         874        22.290    26.800    51.300        52        1.800
Najjah                    26       332,000        61.830        5.61            18       2,518        44.210    89,900   124,200        73          960
Sana a                    30       S21.300        65.3S0        8.00            51        1.279       S9L770   1227.70   226 700 Z l             l.Ooo
Total NORDA             65      "99,000        151.820        6.58            33       4.671       126.270   239.460   402.200        60        3.760
Cultivable
B. DISTRICT COVERAGE                                                                                                                                    Area
Saadah                     6       118,400        20,170        5.87            25         725        18.250    21,930    38,510        57           46  .s
HajJah                    14       184.300        35,580        5.18            16       1.656        27,180    70.490    78,160        90           90  c'
Sana'a                    10 LI    400.400        52.490        7.36            Al         858        47.310    9S.820   135.020        7i          160
Total ProJect Nahia    38        703,100       108,240        6.49            33       3.239        92.740   188.240   251,690        75          296
C. PROJECT COVERAGE
Saadah                     6 LZ                    5.500                        26         214         5.000     7.200    12.500        58           iS
Hajjah                    14 LZ                   10,000                        28         360         6,700    20,800    27,000        80           30
Sana'a                   I1 /2                    11.500                        45         1%         11.300    27.500    39.000        tQ           47
Total Coverage          38 LZ                   27,000                                   830        23,000    SS.500    78.500        70           92
Li Includes two nahias (districts) located in HajJ&h Governorate.
jj Not including nahias of unidentified extension centers.
Doc. 3005C
I-A S
Xb~



YNEti ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRO3ECT
Aaricultural Backaround
Lad Use
Field Crops                                 Perennial Crops
Maize   -Wheat    Other                               Temperate   Tropical      Total      Total
Governorate     Sarah      Millet   Barley   CroRs    _       Coffee   Grapes    Frujts        Fruits    CroQ Area    Area
------------------------------------------ (Hectares '0001 ------------_______________-_______________
Saadah            26.2       0.2      0.1       0.3    9.2      6.2       0.8       0.1          0.4         51.3      1,800
Hajjah            58.1       7.1      0.4      24.3    3.3      1.5       0.5       0.1          -          124.2        960
Sana'a            69.4        d      Am        IA   id.          Li       L         10           -          226.7      1.000
Total:      153.7      17.6     43.5     41.0   23.7       7.8      4.5        1.2          0.4        402.2     3,760
4"
Sourea: Agricultural Statistics, MAF 1986.
3005c
t- 



-48-
Annex 1
Table 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure, Farm Size and Fragmentation
(Number of Agricultural Holdings)
Saadah       Hailah        Sana'a       Total
A. Tenure (Agricultural Holdings)
Totally Owned               17,250       35,990        43,630      96,870
Owned/Tenanted               4,860        7,030        15,000      26,890
Totally Tenanted               180        1,190         1,140       2,510
Total All Holdings       22,290       44,210        59,770     126,270
B.  Farm Size (Agricultural Holdings)
Less than 0.5 ha             8,870       16,760        12,690      38,320
0.5 to  1.0 ha               4,130        7,950         9,990      22,070
1.0 to  3.0 ha               4,860        9,680        17,340      31,880
3.0 to  5.0 ha               1,040        4,010         8,410      13,460
5.0 to 10.0 ha               1,990        3,340         8,160      13,490
Over 10.0 ha                 1,400        2,470         3,180       7,050
Total All Holdings       22,290       44,210        59,770     126,270
C. Number of Parcels Per Holding
1 Parcel                      3,480        8,840         3,650      15,970
2 -  3 Parcels                7,690       17,460        17,870      43,020
4 -  5 Parcels                5,680        9,730        14,400      29,810
6 -  9 Parcels                3,880        5,130        16,440      25,450
10 - 19 Parcels                1,520        3,050         7,350      11,920
20 Parcels and Over               40          -              60         100
Total All Holdings         22,290       44,210        59,770     126,270
Source: Calculated for the NORDA area from Agricultural Statistics,
MAF 1986.
3005C



Annex 1
-49-                                            Table 6
YEMEN ARAM REPUBLIC
NRTH,ERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Preaosed Location of Extension Serv1ce Centers
Saadah                              Haijah                                      Sana'a
HO    BC    EC           mat ,  Ho   BC    EC                Nahia         HO      BC     EC              Nahia
Saadah                             Hajiah                                 ,Amran
Saadab                             a                                        Al Eatana
Baqim ai      Baqim                Abs La          Abs                          Al Ashah        Al Ashah
Razih aL       Razih               Harad Li        Harad                        Suways          Suways
Fawt Li       Saqain               Midi            Hidi                         Shaharah        Shaharah
Majz          Hajz                 At Tur          At Tur                       Al Oaflah       Al Qaflah
Abdain         Sabar               Aslam La        Aslam                Kham1r
Amatalh        Sahar               Kuaydena        Kuaydena                     Al Harf         Harf-sufyan
Wadi Maaz      Sahar               Muharraq                                     Ruth Li         Huth
Wadi Alef      Sabar               Unident La                                                   Khamir
Nushur         Sahar          Na1iah                                            Ohi Bin LI      Ohi Sin
Unident LI                                                                      Raydah          Raydan
Unident LI                         Hajjah          Sharas
Habyan         Mabyan                Amran
Maghdib
Jamimah        Hiflah                       As Sudah        As Sudah
B. Awwam        B. Awwam                    As Swad         As Swad
Gimua          Khulan Aftar                 Thula           Thula
Hahadilah      Hajjah                      J.1. YazidLZ   Amran
UnidentLI                                    I. SurayhLI    Anran
UnidentLl                                   Hamdan LI       Hamdan
UnidentL2                                   B. Harith       B. Harith
Unident LI
Unident LI
Unident LI
Unident a
Li Already constructed.
LI Precise location in Nahia to be decided.
LI Location of nine unidentified centers to be decided during project implementation, in accordance
with agreed criteria.
NOTE: HQ = Headquarters
KC a Block Centers
EC * Extension Centers
300SC



-50-
ANNEX 1
Table 7
YEME'j ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Vehicles, Equipment and Machinery
Management &    Agriculture &
Engineering      Veterinary      CACB     Total
Vehicles
4 WD Long Wheel Base                No.       10                11           4         25
4 WD Short Wheel Base               No        12                12           3         27
Movie Mobile Units                  No         -                 1           -          1
Pick-up                             No         3                 8           -         11
Bus                                 No.        1                 1           -          2
Motor Cycle/Mini 4W Drive           No.       20                70            -        90
Equipment and Machinerr
Pumpsets (20HP)                     No.        -                10           -         10
Tractors                            No.       12                 8           -         20
Trailers, Rotary Hoe,
Leveller, Ditcher                Set        -                 4           -          4
Tractor Sprayer                     No.        -                12           -         12
Hand Tractor                        No.        -                 6           -          6
Audio visual                        Set        -                 1           -          1
Extension Equipment                 Set        -                10           -         10
Equipment & Small Tools             Set        -                25           -         25
Trucks (3T)                         No.        4                 1           -          5
Dump Trucks                         No.        6                 -           -          6
Mobile Workshop                                1                 -           -          1
Workshop Equipment                  Set        I                 -           -          I



-51-
ANNEX 1
Table 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training
Staff   Date of
Number  Years  Appointment
A. Technical Assistance to NORDA (Agriculture)
Senior Agriculture Advisor /1                 1       3     July 1, 1988
Senior Extension Advisor L                    1       2     July 1, 1988
Extension Training Specialist /1              1       3     March 1,  1988
Irrigation Agronomist                         1       3     January 1, 1989
Plant Protection Specialist /1                1       3     March 1, 1988
Fruit Tree Specialist                         1       3     January 1, 1989
Assistant Extensionist                        3       9     January 1, 1989
Women's Program Specialist                    1       3     January 1, 1989
Assistant Women's Program Specialist          3       5     January 1, 1990
Horticulturist (Research)                     1       3     January 1, 1989
Animal Husbandry Specialist (Research)        1       3     January 1, 1989
B. Technical Assistance to NORDA (Engineering)
M&E Advisor /1                                1       1.5   July 1, 1988
Engineering Advisor /1                        1       2.5   July 1, 1988
Office Engineer /L                            1       4     July 1, 1988
O&M Engineer                                  1       1     January 1, 1990
Civil/Design Engineer                         1       2     January 1, 1990
C. Consultants
Engineering /1                                       14     July 1, 1988
Short-Term Agriculture/Research Expert                3          -
/1 The Government of YAR has already initiated selection procedure for these
consultants and experts.



-52-                         ANNEX I
Table 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projeet National Staff
Prolect Years
Position                      1     2     3      4      5       6 & Beyond
NQBMA (Headquarters)
Director General                    I     1     1       1     1            1
MBE Officer                         -     1     1       1     1            1
Directors                           3     3     3       3     3            3
Administrative Officer              1     1     1       1     1            1
PR & Foreign Affairs Officer        1     1     1       1     1            1
Hydrologist                         -     1     I       1     1            I
Hydrogeologist                      -     1     1       1     1            1
Design Engineer                     -     2     2       1     1            -
O8H Engineer                        -     1     1       1     1            1
Civil Engineer                      1     1     1       1     1            1
Surveyor                            1     1     1       1     1            1
Accounts Officer                    1     1     1       1     1            1
Procurement Officer                 1     1     1       1     1            I
Storekeeper                         1     1     1       1     I            1
Guards                              1    2      2       2     2            2
Clerks                              2     3     3       3     3            3
Secretaries                         2     2     2       2     2            2
!ORDA (Governorates)
OS Engineer                         -     3     3       3     3            3
Civil Engineer                      3     3     3       3     3            3
Surveyor                            -           3       3     3            3
Draftsman                           4     4     4       4     4            3
Supervisors                         3     3     3       3     3            3
Clerks                              6     6     6       6     6            3
Secretaries                         3     3     3       3     3            3
Agricultural Extensign
Extension Officers                  -     1    3        5     5            S
Subject Matter Specialists:
"ale                            -     -    6       14   18            18
Female                          -     -     2       4     6            6
Extension Assistants                -    13   27       34    39           39
Demonstration Specialists           2    4      4       4     4            4
Nurseries                   1     2    2        2     2            2
Research
Regional Director                   1     1     1       1     1            1
Agronomist                          -     1     1       1     1            1
Plant Protection Expert             -     -     -       1     I            1
Water Management Expert             -     -     -       1     1            1
Animal Husbandry                    -     -     -       1     I            1
Horticulturists                     -     -     -       1     1            1
Research Coordinators               -     -     1       1     I            1
Animl Health.
Laboratory Technicians              -     2     2       2     2            2
Vet. Te.hnicians                    -     1    2        3    4             4
Vet. Assistants                     -     2     3       4     4            4
Credit
Credit Coordinators                 1     1     I       1     I            I
Credit Officers                     3     4     5       S     S            S



TERI ARAB REPUBLIC
NORtHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIIENT PROECT
Project Canponents by Year
Totals Including Contingomies                                      Totals Including Contingencies
(YRIS '0001                                                        tosS '000)
t         2          3        4         5         6      Total         1        2       3         4        5       8      Total
S:::5:2:5 :::::S::=  5:5:::: ::: S::::: :5:5:::: :::::::: ::::=::x::  :::=5:  :S::::: 4:t::: =:::=:: :      ::s r:::: St::===2=:5tS=:
A. AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                       13,300.9  40.742.3  48.997.6 46,336.4 28. 173.1 23.908.7 201,459.0  1,381. 1 3.O8..8  4.084.6 3,461.2 1,956.? 1,557.5 16,246.9
S. AGRICULTURAL CREDtT                          2. 684.2   2.495.2   4.230.2 10,410.8 23. 365.9 28. 692.4  89. 878. 8    278.7   233. 1    352.8   777.7 1. B22. 8 1.738.8 B5.003.?
C. IRRIGATION DEVELOPIIENT                            -   2,775.4  12.76.7 10. 755.2  7812.0            -  34. 109.4        -   259.3  1,064.3   803.4   542.8          -  2. 669.5
R. ESTABLISHlENT OF 08  SERVICE                 2.440.0   6,826.4   6,469.3           -        -         -  15.735.6    253.4   637.?    539. 3         -        -       -  1.430.3
E. ESTABLISHEtNT OF PROJECT HEADQUARTERS        4. 391. 3  25.716.3  21.725.4  8.639.5 10.975. 1  8.776.0  0.225.6    456.0 2.402.2  1. 811. 1   645.4   762.2   571. 8  6.648.7
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING            3,77t.6  26,049.0  31.6t6.9 t. 987.0  7.271.6            -  S7.96.2    391.6 2.433.3  2,635.7 1.41S.3   505.0                7.3S3.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                              26.5S8.0 104.604.6 125,806.1 95. 128.9 77. 597. 9 59.379.1 489,104.8  2,760.8 S9 771. 3 t0.487.6 7,1 06. 0 5,389.3 3, 868.1 39.383. 1
5::S::::: S:cs:Ctfl :2:::::::: :55:5:. :: t:SSfl :::::::: f:5::::C=  :5:::::  5::::::::::::::  :n::::   :5:=::: :2553:5 c::::::::
February 11, 1988  18:35
Sainury Accoutt by Project Ctonent
IYRIa '@00)
VILLAGE                Physical
ESTABLISHNENI OF   TECHNICAL       MATER               Contingencies
AGRICULTURAL  AGRICULTURAL  IRRIGATION   ESTABLISHtENT OF          PROJECT         ASSISTANCE   SUPPLY                 ---_
SERVICES        CREDIT     OEVELOPhlENT    OM SERVICE          HEADQUARTERS    AND TRAINING  SCHEMES   Total          I   Amount
*:5:5:::::::::::::: c::cn:2::: :s:::::s::nsD: Snc::::cc::: cscccc,:::::  5::5:::::::5   .ns -::::::S ::55:::::::   :              :               
1. INVESTRENT COSTS
A. EQUIPENIT                       37. 027.8      23. 728. 9            -            7, 791. 1          3, 3"  7             -             7t,947.6   6.6  4, 730. 9
S. VEHICLES                         8.626.0          856.2              -              412.8            6,633.8          550.4         -   17.081. 1  10.0  1.708. 1
C. TRAINING                         t, 640.2       1.439.1              -            1,490.0                  -        3. 614.2       8-,13.5   9.0    736.1
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    -              -             -            1,289.6                  -       48,978.6             50,268.2  13.S  6.774.0
E. CIVIL WORKS                     22,937.4        7,740.0      18,708.3                   -                  -               -        -   49.385.7  14.2  7.014.5
F. BUILDINGS                       14,897.4        2,538.0              -                  -           14, 621.3             -         -   32. S. 6  15.0  4,808.5
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                85. 130.7      36,302.2      18.708.3            10,983.5           24. 654.8      53. t43. 2       -  228.922.7  11.3 25, 772.2
it. RECURRENt COSTS
A. EQUIPHENT                                                    -                         -              631.1              -         -       631.1  10.0      63.1
B. VEHICLES                               -                            -                 --            3.15.8               -         -    3,815. 6  10.0    381.6
C. OPERATION 8 NAINTENANCE        19,462.2               -                             .               2,303.3              -         -   21, 765.6  10.0  2. 176.6
0. TRAIIIING                         143.0                                                                   -                                143.0   0.0       0.0
E. SALARIES                       16,048.4               -             -                  -            2.405.7              -         -   1.. 451  10.0  1,845.4
F. STAFFING                               -              -             -                  -           16.205.3              -         -   16.205.3   0.0        0.0
Total RECURRtNT COSTS                 35,653.6               -             -                  -           25,361.0               -        -   61.014.6   7.3  4,466.6
total BASELINE COSTS                   120.784.3      36,302.2       18,708.3           10,983.5           50.015.8       53.143.2         -  289.937.3  10.4 30.238.9
Physical Contingencies              11.437.4        3,654.8       2,806.2              687.2             4,262.8        7, t90.5        -   30,238.9   0.0        0.0
Price Conttingr4ens                 69,237.3       29.921.9      12.594.8             3,864.9           25.947.1       27.362.4         -  168.928.4   S.2 15,511.8
lotal PROJECT COSTS                   201.459.0       69.878.8      34. 109.4           15, 735.6 880.225.6              t87,696.2         -  489. 104.6   9.4 45,750.6
:::::: :::::::: S::n::=:::5  :S:S:S::::::::::  2:n:n:::::::::: :5::::s:::::: :5::::S   :::::::-:: ::::: 
Foreign Exchanro                   108,086.4       39.793.0      12,99t.0           14,813.t            29.042.9       73.153.0         -  277,879.5   9.1 25,334.9                                         g   |
--- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- .-  _ ---     - --- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --
February It. t988  18:35                                                                                                                                                                                       (I*4
)0



YENEN ARMBS REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRMJECT
8RE"M9l Of SHUIAR  ACCOUNTS
(US$ '0001
Physical Conti gonPie$                  Price Contingici.e                                                         P ical
e Costs                      -----------------------------------  -----------------------------------                Total Incl. Cont.               Cont. Plus
-----------------              Local                                  Local                    -----------------------------------------  Prco Cont.
Local (Excl. Duties 8                       lExal.  Duties a                      IExcl.  Duties A                      Local IExcl. Duties 8            on Physucal
for, Exch.    Taxes)     Taxe      total    for. Exch. Tax")   Taxes   Total    For. Exch. Taxesl   Taxe    Total    For. Exch.    Tax)           Taxes    Total       Cont.
1. INVESTlENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT                     7.026.6        967.6         - 7 994.2        427.0    98.7         -  525.7        802.7   131.0         -  933.6      B.256.2       1. 197.3          9.4535         584 1
8. VEHICLES                      1.795.5        102.4         -  1l897.9       179.5    10.2         -   189.        151.8     B. 7        -   160.4     2. 126.8        121.3        - 2.248. t        204.4
C. TRAINING                        6t9.7        289.6        -    909.3         52.     29.0         -    81. 8       56.     27.5         -    84.2       729.3        346.0         -   .0o5. 3        89. 1
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         4. 615. 8       969. 5       -. N. 4           612.8   139.9        -   752.7        522.8   113.6         -   636.4     S. 75. 5      1. 223.0       - 6. 974. 4       829.4
E. CIVIL lORlS                   1.854. 7     3.632.6        - 5.487. 3        273.3   506.1        -   779.4        231.8   469.6         -   701.4     2,359.9      4. 60S.         -  6, 96.1        M65. 7
F. BUILDINGS                     t.384.5      2.177. 3          3.561. 8       207.7   325.6         -534.3          164.5   259.) t           423.6     1. 756.7     2.763.0            4.5t9.7        589.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             17.2968      8. 139.0       - 25.435.9      1.75S3.2 1.10.4         - 2.83.6     1.930.3 1,009.3         - 2.939.6    20,980.3      10.258.         - 31.239.1      3,162.2
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT                       60. 3         9.8        -      70.1         6 0     1.0         -     7. 0        7.       1.2        -     8.3        73.4          12.0        -     85.5           7. 8
8. VEHICLES                       270.4        153.5         -    424.0        27.0    15.4         -    42.4        36 7    20.4         -   57.)        334.2         189.2        -    523.5          47.6
C. OPERATION A MAINTENANCE      1.127.8      1.290.6        - 2.4t8.4         112.8   129.1         -   241.8       151.2   173.5         -  324.7      t.391.8       1.593.2        - 2.985.0         271.4
D. IRAINING                           -         15. 9        -       .            -       -         -       -           -      1.9        -     1.9            -         17. 8       -     17.8             -
E. SALARIES                           -      2.050.5         - 2,050.5                 M.- 2.0      -  205. 0           -   277.1         -  277. 1           -      2.532.6         - 2.532.6          230. 2   1
F. STAFFING                                  1,800. 6       -  1,800. 6                                     -               199. 2            199. 2          -       t.999.8        -  .999. 8             -
lota) RECURRENT COSTS               1.458. 5     5.320.9           6, 779.4       145.9   350.4         -  496.3        195. 1  673.3         -    68. 4    1. 99. 5      6.344.6        - 8. 144. 1       5S7.0
Totsl                               18.755.3     13,459.9         - 32.2t5.3     1.,99.0 1.460.9         - 3.359.9     2.125.5 1.682.6         - 3.808.0    22.779.       16.603.3       - 39,383.1       3,719.1
febru ;y t;. 19S8 18:35
9                                                                                                                                                           M



YtENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPEINT PROdECT
Sumpy Accounts by Yest,
Totals Including Continget#ins                                    Totals Including Contingencies
(YRIs '000)                                                        IUSS '000)
t         2         3         4        5         6      Total         1        2       3        4        5        6     Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPIEENT                  9,452.7  19. 653.5  20, 543.1 17,357.4 26.951. 4 26, 942.7 120. 900.8    981.5 1,835.9  1. 712. 5 1, 296.6 1, 871. 8 1, 755. 1 9,453.5
8. VEHICLES                    5.829.3  11,402.1   4,229.2  1,900.0  1,198. 3          -  24.558.9    605.3 1.065. 1    352.6   141.9    83.2          -  2.248. 1
C. TRAINING                    2.511.9   3,428.5   3. 170. 2  2, 363.     76. 9        -  12,242. 2    260.8   320.3    264.3   t76.8    53.3          -  1.075. 3
O. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        4,542.9  23,926.1  29,589.6 17,604.5  6.998.0           -  82,681.0    471.7 2,235.0  2,466.7 1,315.0   486.0           -  6.974.4
E. CIVIL IORKMS                  684.5  17. 506.8  27,668. S21 091.2 13.799.6 6.466.5  87.217. 1        71.1 1,635.3  2 306.5 1:575.5   958.4   421.3  6.968.1
F. BUILDINGS                          -  18 268.8  23,514.2 11t419. 1         -        -  53,202. 1        - 1,706.5  1,960.2   853.0         -        - 4,519.7
Total INVESTIENT COSTS           23,021.2  94,185.7 108,714.7 71,735.9 49,715.3 33,409.3 380.782. 1 2,390.5 8,798.0  9,062.8 5,358.5 3.452.8 2.176.4 31.239.1
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. EQUIPNENT                      74.4      38. 2     234.4    301.1    328.1         -   1,076.2       7.7    12.9      19.5    22.5    22.8         -     85.5
B. VEHICLES                          -     832.9   1,317.1  1,479.5  1 6t1.9  1 740.9   6,982.4           -    77.8    109.8   110.5   112.0   113.4    523.5
C. OPERATION 8 NAINTENaNCE      897.9   3,210.4   6,009.3  6 936.3 11,340.9  9 759.0  40,153.6         93.2   299.9    501.0   667.5   787.6   635.7  2,985.0
0. TRAINING                          -      28.4       49.0     73.3      79.9        -      230.5        -      2.7      4.1      5.5     5.5        -     17.8                           t
E. SALARIES                     690.2   2,539. 1   5, 102.5  7,783.0  9,270.6  8,798.5  34. 183.9      71.7   237.2    425.4   581.4   643.9   573.2  2.532.6
F. STAFFINGt 1904.3   3, 670. 0   4,379.1  4.819.8  5,251.3  5,671.4  25, 695.9    197.7   342.8    365.1   360.0   364.7   369.5  1, 999.8
Total RECU NREIT COSTS             3.566. 8  10.418.9  17,091.3 23.393.0 27.882.6 25,969.8 108,322.5    370.4   973.2  1,424.8 1, 747.4 t, 936.5 1, 691.8  8 144. 1
9=2=======,=======  ========n ======== =,====== =========  ======= ======= ==== ========  ====.=== ======= =====.==
Total PROJECT COSTS               26,588.0 t14.604. 6 125.806. 1 95. 128. 9 t7t597.9 59.379. 1 49, 104. 8  2.760.8 9,771.3 10, 487.6 7. 106.0 5,389.3 3. 86. 1 39.383. t
account=  S =        =    =     == ==                      =:r=======  ==:==== ======= ======== ======2=2 ===== ======= ======:=
F.bauary 11. 1988 18: 35
lF



-56-
ANNEX 1
Table 11
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year        Semiannual         Cumulative           Percentage
Semester Ending       Disbursements      Disbursements             (X)
-    ---US$ Million Equivalent        ---------
1988
June 30, 1988              0.3                 0.3                  2.0
1989
Dec. 31, 1988              0.5                 0.8                  4.5
June 30, 1989              0.5                 1.3                  7.4
1990
Dec. 31, 1989              1.5                 2.8                 15.9
June 30, 1990              2.5                 5.3                 30.1
1991
Dec. 31, 1990              2.5                 7.8                 44.3
June 30, 1991              2.0                 9.8                 55.7
1992
Dec. 31, 1991              1.5                11.3                 64.2
June 30, 1992              1.5                12.8                 72.7
1993
Dec. 31, 1992              1.0                13.8                 78.4
June 30, 1993              1.0                14.8                 84.1
1994
Dec. 31, 1993              1.0                15.8                 89.7
June 30, 1994              0.6                16.4                 93.2
1995
Dec. 31, 1994              0.6                17.0                 96.6
June 30, 1995              0.4                17.4                 99.0
1996
Dec. 31, 1995              0.2                17.0                100.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1995



YDMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Future Yields and Total Production
Yields                                            Production
Future           Future         Incremental                 Future           Future        Incremental          1985 Annual
CrAop             Present  Without aro-A ct  With Praient  J       Yield      Present  Without Pro ect  With Prraiect 1/  Production 3/   Pro tion in YAR J/
--------          tons/ha ---------------          t(X        ----- ----------(OO 0 ton s)---------                            O (0000 tons)
Sorghum             1.4         1.6                1.8                12        31.5           36.4            40.8            12                 281
Ratoon sorghum      0.7         0.85               1.0                18
Wheat               1.2         1.4                1.6                14         1.2            1.4             1.6            14                  63
Apple               7.0         8.0               10.0-12.0 2/   25-50           2.1            2.5             4.4            76                   B
Coffee              0.4         0.4                0.7-1.0 2/   75-150           0.0            0.0             0.1              -                  4
Papaya             10.0        12.0               14.0-20.0 2/   16-66          20.5           24.6            38.2            55                  40
Grape              10.0        12.0               1s.0-20.0 2/   25-66           2.5            3.0             S.S            83                  s0
Tobacco             1.0         1.2                1.5               25          1.0            1.2             1.5            2S                   S
Vegetables          8.0        10.0               12.0               20         39.9           49.9            66.2            32                 370
Alfalfa            50.0        55.0               70.0               27         17.0           18.7            23.3            25                  52
1J  At full development in year 10
V/  Existing trees - newly planted trees.
3/ At year 10
4/ Concerns total production for the whole country.
306SC
Ia-
a-



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEMT PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets Per Ha and Farm Inciom
Gross
Value of              Fertilizer.   Tractor/             Total        met                       Farm Model Area
Crop             Production 1J/  Labor   bmanure      Anmual H.ri  Other  InLputs  Reurnhsha    1A        IB_   -2A            IAB     AL      1& 4AL
---------------------------------------V ooO YRLsihal ----------------------------------------_  ------------------------(ha---------------------------
Apple (Existing)        40.0         10.0        1.3           0.9       0.2   12.4       27 .6       0,10   0.10   0.05   0.0S                   0.05   0.05
Apple (new)             72.0         10.0        1.3           1.5       0.2   13.0       59.0               0.25           0.10                         0.05
Coffee (new)            49.0         14.0        l.a            1.2      4.5   21.5        27.5                                                   O.05   0.05
Coffee (new)            70.0         17.0        1.4            1.5      0.5   20.4       49.6                                                           0.05
Papaya (existing)      61.6          25.0        2.6           0.9       0.4   28.9       32.7                                     1.00   1.00
Papaya (new)            88.0         24.0        2.6           2.2       5.6   34.4       53.6                                            2.00
Grapes (existing)      108.0         24.0        2.2            1.5      1.0   28.7        79.3       0.10   0.10   0.05   0.05
Grapes (new)           144.0         35.0        2.2           1.5      17.5   56.2       87.8               0.2S           0.10
Sorohum (orain)         11.5          7.0        0.4           2.0       0.2    9.6         1.9       2.00   2.00   1.00   1.00   6.00   6.00   0.80   0.70
Sorhumn (ratoon)         5.6          3.0        -             0.3       -      3.3         2.3       1.00   1.00   0.40   0.40   3.00   3.00                   VI
Cereal (wheat)           7.7          3.0        0.5           2.1       0.7    6.3         1.4                      0.30   0.30                  0.40   0.40  1
Tobacco                 30.0         15.0        1.1           3.8       0.6   20.5        9.5                                     0.50   0.50
Vegetables              44.4         24.0        1.8           4.5       0.7   31.0        13.3       0.30   0.60   0.10   0.20   2.00   4.00   0.20   0.20
Alfalfa                 70.0         24.0        1.7           4.7       0.1   30.5        39.5       0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10
1/ Five years after investment or extension has taken place.
30OSC
soosc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.   *~~~~~~~



-59-
Annex l
Table 14
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Taxes
Incremental               Cooperation
Number of   Gross Value   Zakat La        Tax LI      Total        Total
farms    of Production  Per Far       PeIarm  rm    Per Farm   All farms
--------------------__   000) -------------------   (Millioni
Intermontane Plains
IA Without Investment      1,360            8.8         0.9          0.2         1.1          1.5
lB With Investment           240           64.9         6.5           1.6        8.1          1.9
Highland Wadis
2A Without Investment      1,480            5.1         0.4          0.2         0.6          0.9
2B With Investment           320           26.3         2.0          0.6         2.6          0.8
Midlands/Lowlands
3A Without Investment      1.800           31.4         2.3           0.8        3.1          5.6
30 With Investment           250          251.4        18.8          6.3        25.1          6.3
Rainfed Terraces
4A Without Investment        650            3.6         0.4           0.1        0.5          0.3
49 With Investment           500            7.9         0.8           0.2        1.0          0.S
TOTAL                                                                                17.8
Li Five percent and 10% of gross value of production of pump and spate irrigation
farms, respectively.
LI 2.5% of gross value of production.



-60-,
Annex 1
Table 15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Rent Recovery at Full Development /1
(YRls Million)
1.  Incremental Gross Value of Production                            168.2
2.  Incremental Non Labor Input Costs                                 25.2
3.  Net Incremental Income                                           143.0
4.  Less Imputed Value of Incremental Family Labor                    50.6
5.  Less Imputed Value of Management and Risk /2                      14.3
6.  Incremental Rent (3-4-5)                                          78.1
7. Incremental Taxes
A.  Zakat                                                      13.5
B.  Cooperation Tax                                             4.3
Total                                                    17.8
8.  Rent Recovery Index (7/6)                                         22.7Z
9.  Net Incremental Income Recovery (7/3)                             12.42
10. Public Investment
Infrastructure /3                                              25.5
Recurrent Costs /4                                             14.2
Total                                                    39.7
11.  Cost Recovery Index (7/10)                                        44.8%
1  From all farms affected by the project (see Table 15).
/2  Assumed lOb of net incremental income.
/3 Costs of infrastructure for extension service and NORDA HQ converted in
annuity over 25 years at 12% (factor .14991).
/4 Recurrent costs of extension service and NORDA HQ for Year 5.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fjnanc^Al and Economic Prices
(YRts)
Financial Prices                                                        Economic Prices
------------------------- Crop Year ------------------------    ------------------------ Crop Year ----------------
Unit    1     2      3     4     5     6      7     8     9      10-25     1     2      3     4     s      6     7     8     9      10-25
OutDutS
Sorghum        kg      4     3.8   3.6   3.4   3.2   3       2.8   2.5   2.5     2.5      1.7   1.8   1.9   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1        2.2
Vegetables     kg      4     4     4      4     3.7   3.4   3.1   3      3        3       3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.1   2.9   2.6   2.5        2.5
Cereal         kg      4     3.8   3.6   3.4   3.2   3       a     3     3        3       2.4   2.5   2.5   2.6   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7        2.8
Alfalfa        kg      1     1     1      1     1     1      1     1     1        1        .9    .9    .9    .9    .9    .9    .9    .9    .9         .9
Papaya         kg      5     5     5      4.7   4.4   4.1   3.7   3.7   3.7      3.7      4.2   4.2   4.2   4.0   3.7   3.5   3.1   3.1   Z.1        3.1
Apple          kg      4     4     4      4     4     3.8   3.6   3.4   3.2       3       3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.2   3.0   2.9   2.7   2.5        2.5
Grape          kg      8     8     8      7.6   7.2   6.8   6.4   6      6       6        6.8   6.8   6.8   6.4   6.1   5.8   5.4   5.1   5.1        5.1
Coffee         kg    90    90    90    80    70    60    50    50    50         50       33.6  34.6  34.0  35.6  36.3  36.6  37.3  38.5  38.8 38.8
Stover         kg      0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8       0.8       .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68        .68
Stover green   kg      0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       0.3       .25   .25   .2    .25   .25   .25   .25   .25   .25        .25
Tobacco        kg    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20    20         20       17.8  17.6  17.4  18.4  19.0  19.3  19.8  20.3  20.8    20.8
Apple New      kg      6     6     6      6     6     5.7   5.4   5.1   4.8      4.5      5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   5.1   4.8   4.6   4.3   4.1        3.8
Straw          kg      0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8       0.8       .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68   .68        .68
Inputs
Fertilizer     kg      5     5     5     4.7   4.4   4.1   3.8   3.5   3.5       3.5      2.3   2.4   2.6   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0        3.0
Chemicals      kg    50    50    50    50    50    so    50    so    50          50      42.5  42.5  42.5  42.5  42.5  42.5  42.5  42.5  42.5    42.S
Animal hire   day   150   150   150   150   150   150   150   150   150        150      127.5 127.5 127.5 127.5 127.5 127.5 127.5 127.5 127.5   127.5
Tractor hire hour   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100         100      85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0    85.0
Manure         M3   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100         100      85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0  85.0    85.0
Water Shallow  M3      1     1      1     1     1     1      1     1     1        1       1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8        1.8
Labor      manday   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100   100        100       85    85    85    85    85    85    85    85    85         85
Meworandum Items"I
Import Parity Prices L/
Vegetables   kg                                                                         5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.9        5.0
Grapes       kg                                                                         7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0        7.0
Papaya       kg                                                                         7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9        7.9
Export Parity Prices
Vegetables   kg                                                                         4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7   4.7        4.7
Grapes       kg                                                                         4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6   4.6        4.6
Papaya       kg                                                                         6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1   6.1       6.1   cr Z
.- S
LI See para. 5.14.



-62-
ANNEX 1
Table 17
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits Streams, Agriculture Component
(YRls Million)
Incremental                        Net
Investment     Recurrent      Production       Incremental      Benefits
Costs          Costs           Costs         Benefits      (4-(1+2+3)
(1)            (2)             (3)             (4)            (5)
1988               0.9            -               -               -            (0.91
1989              12.4            3.0             -               -           [15.4]
1990              49.7            7.4             0.1             0.3         [56.91
1991              45.6           10.4             1.7             1.6         [56.1]
1992              34.5           12.7             6.2             6.9         [46.5]
1993              30.4           13.8            14.9            21.0         [38.1]
1994              40.0           12.0            35.0            58.0         [28.9]
1995               -             12.0            47.9            99.9          40.1
1996               -             12.0            56.9           120.2          51.4
1997               -             12.0            64.8           149.6          72.8
1998              19.0           12.0            66.9           155.8          57.9
1999               -             12.0            67.0           155.8          76.9
2000               -             12.0            67.1           155.9          76.9
2001-2002          -             12.0            67.1           155.9          76.8
2-03              19.0           12.0            67.1           155.9          57.8
2004-2007          -             12.0            67.1           155.9          76.8
2008              19.0           12.0            67.1           155.9          57.8
2009-2012          -             12.0            67.1           155.9          76.8



-63-
ANNEX 1
Table 18
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis, Agriculture Component
Present              Internal
Value at OCC           Rate of
of 122             Return
(million)              (X)
Base Case                                        68.3               16.5
Costs up 202                                    -21.1               10.7
Benefit down 202                                -34.8                9.3
Costs up 202 and Benefit down 20%              -124.3                2.2
Benefit lag 2 years                             -36.2              1W.2
Benefits up 20%                                  171.5              22.1
Costs down 201                                   157.8              23.3



Annex 2
- 64 -                           Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cooperative and Agricultural Development Bank (CACB)
Introduction
1.       CACB was created in 1982 itn a merger between the Agricultural Credit
Bank and the National Cooperative Development Bank. The merger created an
institution responsible for all agriculture credit in YAR, including lending
to agricultural cooperatives. However, CACB's banking functions are somewhat
restricted; the bank takes few deposits from individuals, although
cooperatives do maintain substantial accounts with the bank. CACB's resources
mainly come from paid-up capital, loans from the Government tied to specific
projects, some of which externally financed, and cooperative deposits. The
bank also involves itself in trading operations; since 1982 it has distributed
fertilizer through village agents, and has procured farm machinery (irrigation
pumps, tractors, outboard engines) to be sold on credit. The importance of
these trading operations decreased since 1982, but still accounted for
substantial revenues, Trading virtually stopped in 1986, but recently the
Government decided to let CACB resume its trading operations.
Lending Characteristics
2.       During 1982-1985, CACB has disbursed YRls 600 million, and issued
guarantees for YRls 57 million. Medium term credit constituted 772 of all
credit during 1982-1985; the share of agricultural machinery, irrigation and
poultry of medium term credit was 29Z, 462 and 12% respectively. Only 2b of
medium-term loans went to cooperatives. Almost 81b of short-term loans were
disbursed to finance working expenses of individual farmers, the rest went to
cooperatives. Approved lending commitments of CACB increased from YRls 110
million in 1982 to YRls 215 million in 1985. CACB operates 14 branches, of
which four (Zabid, Hodeidah, Ibb and Sanaa) were responsible for 53% of
lending volume.
History of IDA Involvement
3.       When CACB was formed in 1982, IDA immediately financed an
institutional development project (Cr. 1308-YAR) to assist CACB in
successfully consummating the merger. The project included studies to improve
CACB's organization and operations, a credit survey, appointment of a group of
expatriate specialists, and funds to computerize the administrative functions
of the bank. The experience of this project has been mixed. Good progress
has been made with the computerization, while most studies were completed in
time. But CACB has been reluctant to hire specialists; one credit adviser
joined in June 1987 and an accountant, training specialist and planning
specialist have recently been appointed. It also has yet to implement the
I



- 65 -                          Annex 2
Page 2
recommendations of the various studies and of its own internal accountants,
particularly concerning financial controls. The bank has some good staff, but
may have limited banking experience. It will obviously take quite some time
to improve the performance of the bank, not only in financial terms, but also
with respect to staff attitude, efficiency and management. The bank has been
reluctant to accept outside advice; however, some foreign specialists have
been effective in the bank, notably the computer specialist involved in
installation of the computer and a bilaterally funded specialist.
Financial Position
4.   The financial position of the bank as of December 31, 1986 is detailed in
Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2.  Detailed data reveals that:
(a)    interest income from outstanding loans constituted in 1986 only 61%
of expenditures, including provisions;
(b)    incidental income (trading profits, commissions and interest income
on short-term cash deposits) accounted for 34% of 1986 income; and
(c)    expenses for 1986, without doubtful debt provisions, amounted to
13.4% of outstanding loans (15.1%, if provisions for doubtful debts
are deducted from outstanding loans).
CACB is unable to cover its costs from interest income, even though almost
half of its financial resources constitute its own capital, on which no
dividend is paid. CACB has been able to augment its interest income with
funds from other sources. CACB's 1986 total income exceeded its costs by
about 3%. However, the auditors have ind;.cated that present levels of
provisions (11% of outstanding loans) should be reviewed on the basis of an
ongoing analysis of bad and doubtful debts. Steps are being taken to reduce
the costs of its credit operations and to arrange for CACB to obtain other
sources of income. Its resumption of trading operations is likely to
substantially improve its net income position. CACB will submit a detailed
set of financial projections for 1988-90, it has agreed to aim at achieving
its lending program and operational costs targets detailed in paras. 6 and 8,
while the Government will, in principle, provide CACB the resources to attain
such lending program.
Interest Rates
5.   CACB's annual lending rates are 9% for seasonal loans and 10% for all
other loans. The appropriateness of the interest-rate structure depends on
four factors--CACB's administrative costs, its likely default risk costs, its
costs of funds, and future inflation rates as summarized below. (a) In recent
years administrative costs (without provisions for bad and dolbtful debts)
have fluctuated between 12% and 18% of the volume of outstanding loans;
(b) the default risk is difficult to ascertain, particularly because CACB
management claims all due amounts are eventually paid in full and no
historical records of defaults are available. Present rates of bad debt
provisions of about 11% of outstanding loans reportedly concern mainly old
guarantees and loans made prior to 1983. A detailed analysis of bad and
doubtful debts is currently being executed. Depending on the mix of loans and
guarantees, a long-term average annual spread of some 2-3% might be



- 66 -                        Annex 2
Page 3
appropriate; (c) CACB's costs of funds varies, but averages at present about
2.51 assuming equity and grants are cost free and (d) inflation rates during
1985 and 1986 have been estimated at 25X-35% annually; future rates are
expected to decrease to 101 by 1990.
6.       All this leads to the conclusion that CACB's present costs,
particularly its administrative costs are relatively high and should not be
considered as basis for any determination of appropriate interest rates to be
charged in the long-term by CACB. With past inflation rates very high and
future inflation rates expected to decrease substantially, past inflation
rates per se also do not constitute an appropriate basis for interest rate
assessments. With interest rate increases unlikely, the strategy to nurture
CACB to a more healthy position is necessarily restricted to measures to
reduce its cost structure, and measures to augment its interest income with
income from other sources. CACB's targets for its operating costs for 1988-90
are YRls 74 million, YRls 82 million and YRls 90 million, respectively,
compared to YRls 67 million for 1986. CACB expects to earn YRls 20 million
from trading operations in 1988-90, compared to YRls 7 million in 1986.
7.       The main remedy for improving CACB's financial position will be to
expand lending operations without a commensurate increase in operating costs
and to deal successfully with some major loans on its books which are not
being repaid. Expansion of CACB's operations has been constrained in the past
because:
(a)    lack of CACB funds, particularly prior to 1985, when CACB
received a YRls 200 million loan from the Yemen Central Bank,
which is being extended on an annual basis;
(b)    the recent shortage of fertilizer and farm machinery in YAR, due
to restrictions on the allocation of foreign exchange. These
shortages particularly occurred after 1985 but are expected to
be reduced once YAR starts exporting oil in substantial
quantities, scheduled for 1988, and once CACB will resume its
trading operations, and
(c)    limited interest on the part of CACB staff to actively develop
new lending operations.
8.       To substantially increase its lending volume, CACB will have to
adjust its passive attitude and become more borrower oriented, while
augumenting its funds available for lending; hence, the Government should
confirm its willingness to facilitate CACB to expand. Several steps have
been, or are being taken to enhance CACB's effectiveness. The bank has
recruited a credit specialist and is recruiting financial, planning and
training specialists; it has prepared plans for an adjustment of its
organization and working procedures. Under the project, CACB would take
several additional steps to increase lending operations and improve its



- 67 -
Annex 2
Page 4
institutional performance. It would improve transport facilities for existing
staff and ease administrative operations of branches by linking branches to
the bank's central computer facilities. CACB would expand its field staff in
the project area and train extension agents to help farmers prepare loan
applications. Lending guidelines have been reviewed and lending limits are
regularly adjusted. Regular training programs are being developed for branch
staff, while management of the banks operations in the project area will be
centralized under one project coordinator, responsible directly to the
Chairman of CACB. In addition, a program of institutional adjustment would be
worked out during regular supervision of the project. CACB expects to
increase its lending volume from YRls 247 million in 1988 to YRls 382 million
in 1990. Lending volume in 1985 was YRls 217 million, and dropped somewhat in
1986 and 1987.
Loan Recovery
9.       Loan recovery as of December 31, 1986 stood at 62.2%.  Improved loan
recovery would assist CACB's liquidity position, and reduce its need for
additional resources. The bank is studying its recovery and the
charateristics of non-performing loans in great detail. It has noted that
recovery problems particularly affect new loans made in the Mareb and Al-Jawf
regions, and old loans made prior to or during 1982/83. Problems are also
being experienced with certain guarantees made at that time.
10.      In view of the need to expand its operations, it is imperative that
the bank establish a firm position with respect to recovery, to show to its
staff and to its borrowers its resolve to forcefully address late payment of
dues. In addition, CACB should vigorously pursue repayment of some major
loans with the Government and specifically concentrate on improving loan
recovery in the two eastern provinces. The bank has set a recovery target of
70% of total demand in all areas except Marib and Al-Jawf for 1988-90.



-68-
Annex 2
Table 1
CO-OPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURE CREDIT BANK
BAIANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1986
1985
YRls                    YRls
ASSETS
Cash In Hand and at Banks             254,201,959             129,149,826
Loans and Advances                    348,545,212             318,635,437
Other Debtors                          87,073,261              88,285,785
Inveatory                               5,182,604              25,350,407
Investments                            24,506,792              24,523,459
Fixed Assets                           25,160438               9,691,794
Projects Under Implementation           2,403,401               2,446,471
Preliminary Expenses Not Yet
Written Off                                                     353,736
747,073,667            598,436,915
Contra Accounts                        26,749,684               7,829,597
LIABILITIES
Current Accounts and Deposits        .173,891,802             111,967,300
;edium- and Long-Term Loans           314,123,232             217,485,924
Creditors                              34,497,416              41,071,839
Indemnities                               538,303               7,044,835
523,050,753            377,569,898
Contra Accounts                        26,749,684               7,829,597
NET ASSETS                            224,022,914             220,867,017
FINANCED BY
Government Contribution               168,802,000             168,802,000
Local Co-operative
Societies Contribution               30,000,000              30,000,000
Reserves and Provisions                25,220,914              22,065,017
224,022,914            220,867,017
=~~~~~~~   1;=



-69-
Annex 2
Table 2
CO-OPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURE CREDIT BANK
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE
YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1986
1985
YRls                    YRls
Income
Trading Income                          7,530,363              17,540,165
Operations Income                      63,046,738              54,755,942
Provisions Written Back                                           722,929
70,577,101              73,019,036
Expenditure
Trading Expenses                          175,458               2,291,548
operations Expenses                    52,669,113              40,724,033
Provisions                             14,777.688              19,907,649
67,622,259              62,923,230
Excess of Income Over
Expenditure                           2,954,842              10,095,806
Appropriations                            295,485               4,000,000
Surplus Transferred to
Balance Sheet                         2,659,357               6,095,806



- 70 -                            Annex 3
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Water Supply Schemes
1.       Background:  The Government of YAR has prepared plans for the
construction of 42 village water supply schemes, aiming at improving the
quality of rural life in the project districts of the Governorates of Saadah
and Hajjah and the northern part of the Governorate of Sana'a. Each of these
schemes would provide safe drinking water to a population of 2,000 to 10,000
living in 2-5 hamlets in the project area, Presently, water for drinking
purposes is obtained from shallow wells, perennial springs and baseflow in the
wadis and is carried to villages on hill slopes and tops manually or by
donkeys.
2.       Design:  The design of these schemes will be similar to those
constructed in the southern part of the country under SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR)
and SURDP II (Cr. 1067-YAR). Typically, the works would include construction
of access roads, drilling and equipping wells with diesel-driven pumps housed
in masonry structures, water transmission piping to storage reservoirs
constructed at higher elevations and distribution piping to deliver water to
the surrounding villages.  The depths of drilling (8"-10" dia.) would range
from 100 m to 300 m; the length of transmission pipeline (3"-4" dia.
galvanized iron) would range from 2,000 m to 6,000 m; the sizes of the
reservoir would range from 150 cubic meters (m3) to 350 m3; and the length
of distribution system pipelines (1-1/2"-3" dia.) would range from 7,000 m to
14,000 m. The schemes would be designed to meet consumption requirement of 50
liters per capita per day. The standard designs of the masonry pumphouses and
the reinforced concrete storage reservoirs would be as given in SURDP Drawing
Nos. 206/81 and 245/82, respectively.
3.       The source of water for the schemes are the wadi aquifers which are
recharged by streamflow/runoff in the wadis. Geophysical studies would be
carried out for the schemes where an existing source of water (well or spring)
is not available. The geophysical studies would include about three probes
per scheme and test drilling where needed. The selection of source would be
made by the LCCDs, with technical assistance and advice from NORDA and the
drilling would be done by the LCCDs.
4.       Estimate of Cost:  Four different cases, representatives of the sizes
of the schemes, are shown in Annex 3, Table 1.  The estimated cost of the
proposed 42 schemes in the three governorates is as follows:



-71 -                             Annex 3
Page 2
Type of Schemes
Province       1    2    3    4   Total      Cost of Schemes    Foreign   Local
- (Number)           ---        (US$ '000)          (US$ '000)
Hajjah         3    6    3    -      12            3,887          2,461    1,426
Saadah         2    5    3    2      12            4,588          2,932    1,656
Sana'a        13    3    2    -      18           4,984           3,125    1.859
TOTAL    18   14    8    2      42          13,459           8,518    4,941
3.        Financing of Schemes:  The breakdown of the various subcomponents of
the water supply schemes is as follows:
Type of Scheme
1       2      3      4
(2 of Cost)
Site Investigation /1                      4.4      4.3    3.2    3.0
Drilling /1                               10.4    12.6   10.9   11.9
Pumping Set                               13.5    10.9   13.3   18.4
Transmission Pipeline                     20.0    24.2   30.7   22.9
Reservoir                                 11.7    14.2   13.6   13.4
Distribution System /1                    34.1    29.1   25.3   27.1
Land for Construction & Access Roads/l    5.9      4.7    3.0    3.3
TOTAL                               100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0
/1  Beneficiaries contribution (S)        55      50      42     45
The LCCDs would collect the beneficiaries' contribution and would be
responsible for the implementation of the subcomponents as shown above under
the technical guidance of the NORDA.
6.       Implementation:  The locations of the schemes have already been
agreed upon between the CLCCD and the MAF. For each scheme, the location of
the water source would be determined by the LCCDs in coordination with the
project. The detailed design of the schemes would be prepared by NORDA using
the standard design criteria established by SURDP. The LCCDs have prepared
plans for the operation and maintenance of each scheme with beneficiaries'
contribution.
7.       Operation and Maintenance:  The operation and maintenance of the
water supply schemes would be the responsibility of the LCCDs financially
supported by the beneficiaries for the proposed project on the same lines as
is the practice in other parts of the country. Experience in SURDP in this
regard has so far proven to be very satisfactory. Based on an average
consumption of 50 liters per capita per day, and with consumers paying for
operation and maintenance costs as well as drilling, distribution, roads, and
replacement costs, an average family of 6.5 members would pay about YRls 55
per month, which is well within the payment capacity of the beneficiaries who
are presently paying more than YRls 100 per family for drinking water.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Villaae Water SupplY Schemes'"
Estimate of Cost
SCHEME TYPE I                SCHEME TYPE 2                  SCHEME TYPE 3                  SCHEME TYPE 4
Rate ~      Q u ntikx                     Quantflv                      QUInLflM                        QJLfliL
F.E.  L.C.  Total            F.E.   L.C. Total             F.E.   L.C.  Total              F.E.    L.C.    Total
Site Investigation  L.S.                       40.0  35.0   7S.0             49.0  41.0    90.0           S9.0   46.0  105.0              73.0    57.0      130.0
Drilling            m         1.325     100    79.5  53.0  132.5   150   119.25 79.5  198.75   200   1S9.0   106.0  265.0   300   238.5  159.0    397.5
Casing (8')         m          .45      100    40.5   4.5    45.0   1SO    60.75  6.75   67.5   200    81.0         9.0    90.0   300   121.5    13.5       135.0
Ptmping Set         Unit   200.0          1   180.0  20.0  200.0        1   180.0  20.0  200.0       2   180.0   20.0  200.0         2   360.0   40.0    400.0
Booster Unit        Unit   1SO.0          -                             -                            1   135.0   1S.0  1SO.0         2   270.0    30.0    300.0
Pumphouse           Unit    30.0          1    15.0  1S.0    30.0       1    1S.0  1S.0    30.0      3    45.0   4S.0    90.0        4    60.0    60.0      120.0
Rising Main
(4* dia.)         m        0.17    2,000   238.0 102.0  340.0  3.000   357.0 153.0  510.0  6,000   714.0  306.0 1,020.0  6,000   714.0  306.0   1,020.0
Reservoir           Unit   200.0          1   100.0 100.0  200.0        1   1SO.O 150.0  300.0       1   225.0  225.0  450.0         1   300.0  300.0      600.0
600.0
Distribution Lines
30 Dia.           m        0.12    2,500   210.0  90.0  300.0  3,000   252.0 108.0  360.0  4,000   336.0  144.0  480.0  6,000   504.0  216.0              720.0
20 Dia.           m        0.06    2.SOO   105.0  45.0   150.0  2,000    84.0  36.0  120.0  3,000   126.0   54.0  180.0  4,000   168.0    72.0            240.0
1-1/20 Dia.       m        O.OS    2.000    70.0  30.0  100.0  2,000    70.0  30.0  100.0  3,000   105.0   45.0   150.0  4,000   140.0   60.0            200.0
Distribution
Manifold Unit     Unit    10.0          3    12.0  18.0   30.0        3    15.0  15.0    30.0      3    12.0   18.0   30.0         5    20.0    30.0       50.0
Land & Roads        LS                          -   100.0   100.0             -   100.0   100.0            -      100.0  100.0             -      150.0     150.0
Total Cost                               1,090.0 612.5 1,702.5         1,352.0 754.0 2,106.0        2,177.0 1,133.0 3.310.0         2,969.0 1,493.5   4,462.5
TX=          Ppuntlation
1           2.000- 4,000
2           4,000- 6.000
3           6,000- 8.000
4           8,000-10,000
Li     These schemes are not a part of this project. Government of YAR is arranging finance to get these constructed as a separate project.
3005C48                                                                                                                                                      -
mx
lb        



- 73 -
Annex 4
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Availabe in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
FAO/IBRD/CP -- Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Preparation Report (54/87 CP-YEM 28, dated May 5, 1987)
B. Working Doeuments
3.1 Agricultural Institutions - Extension, Research and
Technical Assistance
B.2 Agricultural Development - Strategy and Plans
B.3 Engineering Components
B.4 Cost Estimates, Economic and Financial Data



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Organization Chart
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(NORADEP)
Northern Reg.            or of    [            [
(NORDA)
Governor   Governor    Governor
Sanaa       Hajjah      &ah
Public Relations           M {
*  Agriculture       Engineering                            Administration            Finance
a          Department                                      Department             Department
ECnmc                           DeinTann                                                          AcctsrR.At
Setin           Secto          Destign      Section                 Section       Section       Section           & Stores
*  Extension  PannigLC &e    o ca ui
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *&Ptanti 
Protection    Statistics     tructure               Dire tor       Section                     section
Section       Section       SectionGera
..........................                                   .       .        ........f  rGN
a,                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARA AgrRes.Auth
*.........................ACB Coop& AgrCrSank
* CLOOD Confederation of Local Councfls for
*          ~~~~cooperative Dev
Director                      Director                            Director       -    Adm 8 TeckConiro
NORDA                         NORDA                               NORDA          -    Tech.Coord
Sanaa                         Ha,iah                             Saadah        - -..    Adm Coord
Service    Srvice    Health   NuHreSric                                evc        ealth
Servic      S          Heal thrvi
l i i i    I~~~~~!~~c~~J   l i i i                      @~~~~40211-3



,    -   -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
O Mnister of Agrictlture             r 
|and Fistw e
I Director Genteral |[Director General.
t   Plannirng    l                                           |Minister-s Office
Statistics     Planning     Foreign Loans     gtctuaMotoigLalrdt'                                                     Crinig
and        Agricultural      Mondtoi|   Legal    |                        isters     Coordinatinga|
| D |p    |   Dept         Assistance                       EaEconomics  Evaition       Dept          Secretary         Urit
esAgrich   mProea                   Aerant         PernetThama                  Southern    Northern      Eastern
ResearchIplev=a-                     Permanent      Permanent         Dev        Reg. Ag.    Reg.Ag.    Reg. Ag
Corporation   Reearch       Unitio                 Secretary      Secretary      Authority    Dem  Unit   ut r           DevA
F-                                      I       I        I           I 
Director Drctor  Director  Direc tor     Director     Director    Director oEector
General General General     General         General      Gelant       Genaneranl    General
Develomt  Agriculture    Livestock    Irrigation     Extension    pronteto    Finsrance    Manedn
E40211-1



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CROP CALENDAR
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun    Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
Highland Areas                                                                     __             ____
Sorghum                                                              Mai   Crop              _     oon_
Wheat Barley           =__                                                                     ___==
Vegetables 1/
Alfalfa Tree Crops                =                                                    :
Midlands Lowlands
sorghum                          _____RtoonMain   Ccop
Sorghum                                                                                               ___X_
Tobacco
Vegetables 21
Tree Crops                                                      _   L_=
Pla ktintg                    Growintg                    Harvestira 
V Irncxides Winter Potato.Cabbage.Radish.aroad Seans.Orion.Fenugreek
Summer Tomato.Potato.Peppers.Okra.Cowpea
2/ ncludes Tomato. Pepper. Okra. Onionr Sweetmelon. Watermelon.Cucumoer.CowpeaX
E402 11-2
lbt



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 C
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OVERALL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year       198&         1989          1990         1991         1992         1 993         1994         1995
Activty         Quarter        1  2  3_     1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
1 PROJECT MOBILIZATION
Appointment of Key Experts
Selection of Project Consultants   * _          -  -
2 EXTENSION SERVICE
Buildings                                                                                        ...... ..
Vehicles and Equipment           _         .
Local Staff                                                                                                             --        --
Nurseries 
3 VETERINARY SERVICE
Buildings.-
Vehicles and Equipment
Local Staff                                 -----                                                                          - -
4 CREDIT SUPPORT
Vehicles and Sukildngs for CACB                          - _ _ .       . ..
Medium Term Credit                                _
Revolving Fund for
Fertilizer import
5 IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
Demonstration Forms                           r
On Form works                                            ----------
Recharge Dams
Investigation/Design
Construction                                             ---
6 0 & M SERVICE
Expatriate Staff                                  T
Local Staff
Vehicles and Equipment
7 PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
Buildiings
Vehicles and Equipment
a  TRAliIING                                                         I  I  I  I             
|~~~~~~~~~~~F 1l-r '- t I I I I I I f                
LEGEND     ------    Preparation DesigPreparaton of Contract Documents and Contract Award
Construction/Implementation                                                                     E402 11-5
......... ........*. Disbursement



ISRO 19940
44e                                        46
Dhahran                YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
SAUDI                             Na a   NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARABIA   
\> _  SJWADAH      /~ PROJECT AREA
S ' .   48aadsh  /  ll         -   PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
- r  WADIS
@  NATIONAL CAPITALS
0  CITES. TOWNS AND VILLAGES
AL-JAWF         t MAIN PORTS
b   2    ( HAJJAH                        4  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
A KhiarrSr- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES    16
Jr-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Y ;ANAtA /                                          Mareb
MAREB|
S aiX                                             Harib0
Al KaUtt/    >            yDrn/a
RED SEA    ODE AH   Moat
Faqih                   ~~~AL-   DA
W           Uday~~~~~n BB   '   ammam      A   d14
14*
r   T <   v  PEPLL S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ETHIOPiA         _         ,                      .s8
Gulf of A0 den    0 20  40  00  8O  ;00
KLOMETEI
DJIB 0UTI                 -,
MARCH 1988



S A U D I                     A R A B I A
0     70    2p    30   40    50  \ ]/
KILOMETERS
77                                                                                                                           1 ? \ s    D A H
< & R E DE                       /
R      L-M                W                                                                       A W
S E A.                                                     SX'A\ 
YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                                     SAUDI ARABIA
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                              ('.-..
PROJECT FEATURES
PROJECT FEATURES                                       E  ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS                             .
- PROJECT AREA ROUNDARY                                  r'- WADIS                                               YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
o   REGIONAL OFFICE                                            ELEVATIONS IN METERS: 
°   SUB-REGIONAL OfFICES                                         GREATER THAN I500                           0       SANAA.
El  BLOCX CENTERS                                                500 1500                                                                      EOPLE'S
l  EXTENSION CENTERS                                             0 .500                               RED SEA A                               DEM REP
LI] DEMONSTRATION FARMS                                     _   MAIN ROADS                                                                    OF YEMEN
NURSEMES                                               -   SELECTED SECONDARY ROAD               -        1 i
S   TRAINING CENTER                                          0 URBAN AREA. TOWNS                         -        '
O   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                        '  ,
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                  ETHIOPiA
R,                                                                            _ . _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARiRS              EhiBOGIA
'SIOUTI



