Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15975
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1886-YAR)
September 30, 1996
Natural Resources, Water and Environment Division
Middle East Department
Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At time of ICR (Dec. 1995): US$1.00 =  YRls 50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System vs. British System
1 millimeter (mm)      0.039 inches
1 meter (m)         =  3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)  =  10.76 square feet
I kilometre (krn)      0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =  10,000 square meters (2.47 acres)
1 metric ton (ton)    =  2,205 pounds
I liter (1)         =  0.264 gallons
1 I/s               =  One liter per second
1 n3/s             =  One cubic meter per second
I Mm3               =  One million cubic meters
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ARA          Agricultural Research Authority
AREA         Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
CACB         Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CLCCD        Confederation of Local Councils for Cooperative Department
CPO          Central Planing Organization
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP       Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Programme
GOY          Government of Yemen
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LCCD         Local Councils for Cooperative Development
MAF          Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (later changed to MAWR)
MAWR         Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MPD          Ministry of Planning and Development
NORADEP   Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RDW          Rural Development for Women
ROY          Republic of Yemen
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SFYP         Second Five-Year Plan
SSHARDA    Sana'a/Saddah/Hajjah Agricultural Rural Development Authority
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
SRADP        Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project
SURDP        Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU        Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TA           Technical Assistance
TDA          Tiharna Development Authority
TFYP         Third Five-Year Plan
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
WB           World Bank
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF YEMEN - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



TABLE OF CONTENTS                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page No.
PREFACE                    ................................                              ................                   i
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   .....................................  ii-vii
PART I Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives    .......................                                          1
B.   Achievement of Objectives   ............................                                               1
Physical Objectives   .................................                                               1
Financial and Economic Objectives   .......................                                           5
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project  .......................                                           5
Factors Not Subject to Government and NORADEP's Control   ...                                 ...    5
Factors Subject to Government Control .....................                                           6
Project Management   ................................                                                 6
D.   Project Sustainability   ................................                                              7
E.   IDA  Performance   ..................................                                                  8
F.   Borrower Performance  ...............................                                                  9
G.   Assessment of Outcome   ..............................                                                 9
H.   Future Operation  ...................................    10
I.    Key Lessons Learned  ................................   10
PART  II   Statistical Tables
Table  1:       Summary of Assessments .........................   13
Table 2:        Related IDA  Credits  ............................    14
Table 3:        Project Timetable ..............................    16
Table 4:        Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual   ...                          ..   16
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ..............   17
Table 6:        Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..................    19
Table 7:        Studies included in the Project ......................   19
Table 8A:   Project Costs   ................................   20
Table 8B:   Project Financing  ..............................   20
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits   ......................   21
Table  10:   Status of Legal Covenants   ........................   22
Table  11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements   ...                               .......   24
Table  12:   IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs  .......................   24
Table  13:   IDA  Resources: Missions   ........................   25
Appendices:
A. Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Mission 27
B.   Borrower's Implementation Completion Report  ................   38
C.   Notes on Financial and Economic Analysis   ..................   48
Maps:   IBRD Nos. 28310 and 28311
Vice President:          Mr. Kemal Dervis            Task Manager:   Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi (Sr. Irrigation Engineer)
Director:                Mr. Inder Sud               Peer Reviewers:   Messrs. Tijan Sallah (Economist)
Acting Project Advisor: Ms. Tufan Kolan                                Dirk van der Stuijs (Sr. Agriculturist)
Division Chief:          Mr. Salah Darghouth                           Youssef Fuleihan (Sr. Agricultural Economist)
K.S. Venkatraman (Sr. Operations Officer)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|ofrilcial duties. Its contents rnay not othersise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1886-YAR)l
PREFACE
1.           This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Yemen Northern
Regional Agricultural Development Project, for which Credit 1886-YAR in the amount of
SDR12.5 million (US$17.6 million equivalent) was signed on August 4, 1988 and became effective
on July 13, 1989.
2.           The Credit was closed on March 22, 1996. In 1995, the amount of US$4.0 million
was cancelled from the IDA credit following the recommendations of the Country Portfolio
Performance Review agreed upon by the IDA and the Government in May 1995. The last
disbursement took place in June 1996.
3.           Financing was also provided for technical assistance to the project by a United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Grant of US$3.4 million.
4.           The ICR was prepared by anFAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (CP) Mission2
(on behalf of MN2NE Division of the Middle East and North Africa Region) and is based on the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), Supervision Reports and
other information obtained from the project files, information supplied by the project staff, and the
findings of the mission which visited Yemen in November-December 1995. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing input to the aide-memoire drafted by the
mission and by preparing a brief ICR from the borrower's point of view assisted by Consultant, Dr.
Mazhar M. Fawzi, which is attached as Appendix B to this report.3
5.           The ICR was reviewed and finalized by Messrs. Nejdet Al-Salihi and Tijan M. Sallah
(MN2NE) and has benefitted from comments from Messrs. Dirk van der Sluijs and Youssef Fuleihan
as well as more formal reviews by Mr. Salah Darghouth, Chief (MN2NE) and Ms. Tufan Kolan,
Acting Project Advisor (MN2DR).
1/  YAR: Designating Yemen Arab Republic, the official name for Yemen at the time of appraisal, which was
altered to the Republic of Yemen after the unification in 1990 of the northern and southern parts of the
country. Current designation of the Credit is (Cr. 1886-YEM).
2/  Consisting of Messrs. F.K.Bishay (Mission Leader, Economist), J.H.Weatherhogg (Agricultural Economist),
and J.H.Newton (Agronomist, Consultant).
3/  Borrower's comments received and incorporated in the ICR.






ii                                                                 Evaluation Summary
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1886-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.           During the period 1976-1987, the International Development Association (IDA)
supported the agricultural sector in Yemen by providing seven credits in which assistance focussed
on regional agricultural development (Wadi Hadramaut, Tihama, Central Highlands and Research
and Extension). In 1992, IDA provided further assistance to the sector by making available four
credits for regional agricultural development (Eastern Region; Wadi Hadramaut - Phase III and the
Southern and Northern Regional Agricultural Development Projects), and two national projects
[Agricultural Sector Management Support and Land and Water Conservation (Table 2)].
Project Objectives
2.           The main objectives of the Northern Regional Agricultural Project were: (i) to
increase agricultural productivity and incomes of farmers by means of (a) improved agricultural
services, (b) better management of land and water resources and manpower and (c) improved
irrigation and agricultural practices; and (ii) to improve the health/nutrition standards of rural
families through provision of development opportunities for rural women. These measures would
help increase agricultural production, primarily of sorghum, wheat, alfalfa, and fruits and vegetables
in the project area (which covers 37,600 kM2, of which 402,200 ha is normally cropped, and 34,000
ha have been reached by extension), thus enabling efficient import substitution, accompanied by
improvements in the living standards of the rural population. The project was also to meet the
Government's priority objective of accelerated development of the Northern Region, comprising the
two northern Governorates of Saadah and Hajjah and the northern part of the Sana'a Governorate,
which are important areas in terms of sociopolitical considerations and whose development allows
for a more balanced national economy.
3.           The project's objectives were in line with the Government of Yemen's (GOY) national
development objectives and priorities. The project design reflected balanced objectives for increased
and sustainable agricultural production and farmer incomes; optimum use and conservation of natural
resources (particularly land and water); and an enhanced role of women in agricultural and rural
development. It also endeavoured to involve the private sector in selected aspects of agricultural
development (e.g., nursery development and expansion and veterinary services). Various risk
elements were recognized in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and some of the capacity weaknesses
were compensated for by technical assistance (TA).  However, given the available national
capabilities in the Region at the time when the project was initiated, the project objectives were too
ambitious.



Evaluation Sumnmary                                                                 iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.           In general, and especially when judged against the state of food and agriculture in the
Northern Highlands prevailing at the time of loan approval, the project's achievements have been
satisfactory. The project demonstrates an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 12.5% (versus
16.5% projected at appraisal). The decline in ERR was mainly due to slower build-up in benefits
than those projected (Appendix C). The following is a summary of the project's achievement by
component:
5.           The physical achievement under the regional agricultural extension service component
has been substantial and included construction of extension centers, training of extension staff
members, contacting of farmers and construction of block centers (Table 5). However, limited
transport and shortage of operating budget have hampered the mobility and reduced the effectiveness
of the extension service. Planning of field programs and monitoring of the impact of the component
have been limited, and few quantifications of benefits and costs have been carried out. An effective
linkage with research has not been fully established, although good results have been achieved
through demonstration of irrigated horticultural crops (mainly mango).
6.           Noting that the SAR envisaged that, given the social constraints in the project area,
the project should adopt a modest approach to the rural development for wvomen (RDW) component,
the achievement under the component has been partly satisfactory. The main achievements under
the component included the completion of needs assessment surveys (social, economic and
agricultural) in 10 villages and the implementation of a number of home visits.
7.           The implementation of the regional veterinary service component has suffered from
inadequate national staffing and transport. However, successful vaccinations were carried out for
cattle rinderpest (26,000 doses) and sheep pox (21,000 doses). The vaccinations were given free of
charge while other medicines were supplied at a subsidized charge. Retention of revenues from these
services in an account located in the Governorate could assist with the regular procurement of
supplies. In spite of staff shortage and transport constraints, achievement under the component has
been satisfactory.
8.           Achievement under the tree nursery development component has been substantial and
included the establishment or improvement of 8 nurseries through provision of shade netting,
equipment and seed materials. Nurseries' seedling production reached 95% of the SAR's target
(Table 5). Net revenue from the nurseries amounted to YR 4.0 million in 1994. However, the
quality of plants is variable and the nurseries are not yet self-supporting.
9.           The achievement under the applied research component has been limited. The
project's objective was to establish a nucleus research station under the Agricultural Research and
Extension Authority (AREA); the latter would produce an agricultural research development plan and
assign staff to carry it out. The project would provide housing, offices, a laboratory, and vehicles;
these facilities would be located within the Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
(NORADEP) headquarters to be constructed at Amran. The headquarters complex was not
completed (para. 15) and the research unit was located at El-Ira after considerable delay. Research
and Extension have periodic meetings, and research staff assist with problem solving, evaluation of
field demonstrations and exchange of ideas. However, few new recommendations have been released
from the Al Baun research unit, and extension messages are mostly based on the experience of the
field extension staff.



iv                                                                 Evaluation Summary
10.         The SAR's objective to provide support to the Cooperative and Agricultural
Development Bank (CACB) component was to provide field offices, vehicles and equipment. The
CACB offices have not been constructed, and CACB continues to operate from rented premises.
Positive achievements, however, were realized, including the training of 20 CACB staff and the
supply of vehicles to facilitate CACB's lending activities.
11.         The achievement under the support to medium-term credit component has been
substantial, with CACB providing loans (covering 65 % of investment costs) to 1,116 farmers; (124%
of the SAR's target, Table 5).
12.         Funds were to be provided under the farm inputs component for the import of 10,000
tons of fertilizer and 50 tons of plant protection chemicals. The component was successfully
implemented with procurement of 4,000 tons in 1992 and the recent procurement and arrival of
6,000 tons of urea, which has been distributed to farmer cooperatives and CACB branch stores
(Table 5). The latter quantity of fertilizer will be retailed at market price. The proceeds will be
retained in a special account in CACB for future purchases. The recovery of full CIF costs plus
transport (for the 6,000 tons of urea) is a good indication of full cost recovery for inputs; the next
stage should be a closer involvement of the private sector. The achievement under the component
has, therefore, been substantial.
13.         Achievement under the irrigation development component has been satisfactory,
including the establishment of eight demonstration farms, the installation (which is still continuing)
of water tanks and drip irrigation equipment, and the successful adoption by the private sector of the
concept of drip irrigation for mangoes, in addition to the establishment of 20 meteorological stations
and three wadi gauging networks. However, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)-
financed studies and designs of small dams have been delayed, and it has not been possible to
implement any of the dams using the IDA credit. The allocation of SDR 710,000 was, therefore,
cancelled from the program. The UNDP-funded studies will be useful should a follow-up phase to
the project be approved and implemented.
14.         The achievement under the component for establishment of the operation and
maintenance service (O&M) for the project and SSHARDA facilities has been substantial. An O&M
centre has been constructed at Dheibeen and equipment provided as required by the project. Mobile
workshops, machinery and equipment have been provided and an expatriate expert has trained the
staff and supervised O&M operations. The O&M component for the Mareb dam has been
satisfactorily completed.
15.         The project was also to provide assistance for the establishment of permanent
headquarters for SSHARDA at Amran. The design and bidding documents were to be prepared
using UNDP finance. Achievement under this component has been unsatisfactory. Although the
designs and bidding documents were prepared by a national consultant and cleared by the IDA
review mission of October 1993 and bids were received by March 1994, delays in reaching a
decision prevented the contract from being awarded, and a decision was taken to scale down the
complex and implement the first of a two phased design under the project. However, by the time
of the July 1995 supervision mission, no decision had been reached to award the scaled-down first
phase, and the IDA mission agreed with the SSHARDA request to build a block centre as a
temporary office. This decision was also not implemented due partly to the cancellation of US$4
million from the IDA credit (para. 18 - Part I). SSHARDA, thus, continues to rent accommodation
in Amran.
16.         The technical assistance and training (TA) component has positively contributed to
the development of the management and technical capability of SSHARDA staff and has left an



Evaluation Summary                                                                   v
established team who could implement a follow-up project. The achievement under the component
in relation to national institution building has thus been substantial. Technical Assistance staff were
recruited under the project for 36.3 staffyears to undertake agricultural related activities (which
included RDW) and engineering while a total of US$3 million in UNDP grant finance was expended
on short-term TA and consulting services for studies and designs related to small dams and water
resources (Table 5).
17.          The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory and in line with GOY national development objectives and priorities, although the design
has been over ambitious. In particular, the project represented a timely and appropriate intervention
to assist a relatively less developed region and thus promote more balanced regional development.
The Bank's procedures in relation to project implementation were favorable, and its performance in
project supervision was highly satisfactory.
18.          The GOY's performance in project implementation was mixed.  The project
management was satisfactory and managers and staff were motivated and performed their duties
under extremely difficult conditions. However, the Government performance regarding recurrent
budgetary allocations was less than satisfactory, especially during the last three years. At appraisal,
the Government was expected to contribute around US$18.4 million, or 47% of project costs.
Actual expenditure by Government was about US$15.9 million, or 49% of total project investment
costs at credit closing (Table 8B). Government procedures for procurement involved lengthy and
cumbersome procedures for review and authorization at a number of levels by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR), the Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD) and
(at times) the High Tender Committee, and this resulted in delays and prevented timely project
implementation.  Following suggestions by WB supervision missions, procurement activity
substantially improved during the later years of project implementation.  The Government
coordination of IDA and UNDP components was successful in harmonizing project activities and
ensuring continuity of UNDP financial support to the project. With few exceptions, the Government
has complied satisfactorily with the legal covenants as specified in the Development Credit
Agreement (Table 10).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
19.          Given the limitations of the project area, the project design was optimistic in
considering the possible achievements over a six-year implementation period. Delayed project start-
up and factors external to the project (which affected the whole of Yemen such as the Gulf War and
the consequent economic difficulties, the civil war in 1994 in addition to the large drop in the
purchasing power of the local currency) have further constrained the project's performance and
impact. The achievement in the construction and operation of extension and block centers was
substantial (Table 5). The achievement in the construction of SSHARDA's headquarters and
complementary buildings, however, was unsatisfactory (Table 5).  Success in institutional
strengthening has been considerable. Numbers of staff trained, extension agents and Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs) fielded and farmers covered by extension generally equalled or exceeded the
appraisal targets (Table 5). The exception has been the implementation of the RDW sub-component,
which has developed slowly (as foreseen in the SAR) due to socio-economic constraints in the
Region. Extension services have successfully reached the SAR planned target of 9,200 farm families
on an area of 34,000 ha. However, the main emphasis in agricultural extension has been on irrigated
areas and in particular on the introduction of fruit and vegetables into the farming system. A main
reason for this emphasis appears to be the limitation on relevant research-generated extension
messages for adoption by farmers in the rainfed areas.



vi                                                                    Evaluation Summary
20.          Although a formal plan for the project's future operation has not been drawn up, the
GOY has officially requested the Bank to fund a follow-on second project and indicated that it
attaches high priority to it. The follow-on project may include such activities as: consolidation and
follow-up of the actions already financed under both this and the Central Highlands project, as well
as increasing the area covered by SSHARDA's services; improving rainfed agriculture (including
terracing), rangeland management and animal husbandry; construction of agricultural feeder roads;
construction of the small multipurpose dams already studied by this project for agricultural and rural
water supply; provision of small village water supply schemes; and establishment of a unit to monitor
water resources. The follow-on project, by insuring continuity of project activities and benefits to
a larger segment of the rural population, will contribute to project sustainability.
21.          The following are the main lessons learned:
(a) To improve the effectiveness of project management, the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) should be fully utilized in briefing project management at an early
stage of implementation of IDA procurement procedures, project approach,
indicators and ways and means to achieve efficient implementation.
(b) Development and application of qualitative indicators (rather than reliance solely
on delivery of project inputs) is important for effective management of projects
that include major institution building and specific socio-economic objectives
(e.g. development of a disadvantaged region).
(c) Management of projects that aim at sustainable regional agricultural development
require an effective monitoring and evaluation system that incorporates
environmental protection and natural resource conservation indicators. Such a
system would not only review physical achievements, but also assess the
environmental and resource conservation impact of the project.
(d) Extension can only be successful if it can offer sound technical support to
farmers. This can only be achieved if strong links are forged between research
and extension and adequate resources are available for research institutions to
provide their contributions to agriculture in a timely manner.
(e) To be effective, the research program must clearly identify priority areas and
develop an appropriate research strategy and field program, particularly in
regard to rainfed farming in northern highland areas.
(f) The strong social issues concerning the role of women in rural development in
the Northern Region calls for the adoption of a modest and slow approach over
a long time frame. Emphasis should be placed on addressing the social and
cultural constraints that prevent a direct approach and affect the important role
played by women.
(g) The large number of sub-components (16) and the wide geographical coverage
in a region fraught with social and economic difficulties made implementation
and supervision an extremely difficult task.  Design of projects to be
implemented in areas of particular difficulty should be simplified to the full
extent possible, and, where feasible, sites and activities should be grouped in
order to facilitate implementation and supervision.



Evaluation Summary                                                                      vii
(h) The shortages in local recurrent budget allocations, which are required to fund
vital project activities, such as extension, are a major impediments to obtaining
the planned benefits from the project. Assurances must be given by Government
at negotiations that recurrent budgets of an agreed amount will be allocated in
a timely manner for the project.
(i) Civil works contracts should be denominated in a currency which is unlikely to
fluctuate in its purchasing power during the course of implementation of the
contract. Alternatively, the escalation formula should be used to adjust contract
rates to ensure contractors are fairly remunerated. IDA and the Government
have addressed this issue during the 1995 CPPR by agreeing to use contracts
denominated in a stable foreign currency.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1886-YAR)
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.           The main objectives of the project were: (i) to increase agricultural productivity and
incomes of farmers in 34,000 ha of agricultural land by means of (a) improved agricultural services;
(b) better management of land and water resources and manpower; and (c) improved irrigation and
agricultural practices; and (ii) to improve the health/nutrition standards of rural families through
provision of development opportunities for rural women. These measures would help increase
agricultural production, primarily of sorghum, wheat, alfalfa, and fruits and vegetables in the project
area, thus contributing to efficient import substitution, accompanied by improvement in the living
standards of the rural population. The project was also to meet the Government's priority objective
of accelerated development of the Northern Region, comprising the two northern Governorates of
Saadah and Hajjah and the northern part of the Sana'a Governorate, because of socio-political
considerations to promote more balanced regional development.
2.           To achieve these objectives, the project included components for: (i) regional
agricultural services; (ii) agricultural credit; (iii) irrigation development; (iv) O&M services; (v)
project headquarters; and (vi) technical assistance and training.
3.           The project's objectives were well chosen and in line with GOY's national
development priorities. The project design reflected balanced objectives for increased and sustainable
agricultural production and farmers' incomes; optimum use and conservation of natural resources
(particularly land and water); and an enhanced role of women in agricultural and rural development.
It also endeavored to involve the private sector in selected aspects of agricultural development (e.g.,
nursery development and expansion and veterinary services). Various risk elements were recognized
in the SAR, and some weaknesses in capacity were compensated for by Technical Assistance.
However, given the limited national capacity in the Northern Region at the time, the project
objectives were too ambitious.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Physical Objectives
4.           The following describes the project's achievement of the physical objectives by project
component:
(i) Regional Agricultural Services
5.           This component included the following sub-components:
6.           Structure of Extension Service. The physical achievement under this sub-component
has been substantial. Of the 39 extension centers proposed in the SAR, 28 have been completed,



2                                        Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
4 are still under construction, and 17 are rented, giving a total of 49 operating centers (Table 5).
Extension staffing under the project exceeded SAR targets, with 88 extension staff (versus 50 in the
SAR) and 43 subject matter specialists (versus 24 in the SAR). A total of 13,300 farmers are
estimated to have been contacted (145% of SAR), 1,960 field demonstrations on 0.1 to 0.2 ha have
been established (148% of SAR), 4,600 other demonstrations have been carried out (versus 936 in
SAR) and 34,000 ha are estimated to have been reached (98% of SAR's target of 34,380 ha). Of
the 6 block centers planned in the SAR, three were constructed; a fourth is 15% completed, and
work on the fifth has ceased. Three block centers are rented.
7.           While these physical achievements are impressive, transport limitations and shortage
of operating budget have hampered the mobility and reduced the effectiveness of the extension
service. Planning of field programs and monitoring of the impact of the component have been
limited, and few objective quantifications of benefits and costs have been carried out. An effective
linkage with research has not been fully established, although good results have been achieved
through demonstration of irrigated horticultural crops (mainly mango) by extension officers.
8.           Rural Development for Women.  The SAR envisaged that given the social
constraints in the project area, the project should adopt a modest approach in relation to the Rural
Development for Women (RDW) component. Thus, the project's operations under the RDW were
confined to 10 villages in the Amnran area. The RDW Section consisted of a graduate female head
supported by 5 female extension agents who were trained in Egypt (the SAR anticipated that 10
would be appointed) with a minibus for transportation. The Section is in need of 3 female subject
matter specialists (SMSs), two additional extension staff, more training, two additional vehicles and
an adequate operating budget. The main achievements under the sub-component included the
completion of needs assessment surveys (social, economic and agricultural) in the 10 villages and
the carrying out of a number of home visits. The latter is an important activity which needs
continued support with increased emphasis placed on identifying the social and cultural constraints
which limit the access of project staff to rural women. The achievement under this sub-component
has been partly satisfactory.
9.           Regional Veterinary Service. This sub-component was intended to expand and
strengthen the veterinary service in the Northern Region by providing additional facilities for routine
vaccination, parasite control, treatment of animal diseases and data collection. The SAR targets
included provision of laboratory equipment for 2 new clinics, training of technicians, provision of
vehicles and making available two veterinary officers and assistants and six technicians. The sub-
component has suffered from inadequate national staffing, with only one veterinary doctor, one
assistant vet and four veterinary technicians (vaccinators). Limited availability of transport has also
hindered the scope of the services provided, with activities concentrated at rural markets. Successful
vaccinations, however, were carried out for cattle rinderpest (26,000 doses) and sheep pox (21,000
doses). The vaccinations are provided free of charge, while other medicines are supplied at a
subsidized charge. Retention of the revenues from these services in an account located in the
Governorate could assist with the regular procurement of supplies.  Despite staff shortages,
achievement under this sub-component has been satisfactory.
10.          Establishment of Nurseries. The SAR objectives for the sub-component were to
expand both the quantity and quality of seedlings produced in governorate nurseries to meet the
anticipated incremental demand created as a result of project actions (Table 5). This was to be
achieved by establishing a new nursery (at Magash) and expanding production at the four other
existing nurseries through provision of infrastructure (shade houses and irrigation) and inputs. The
nurseries were to be financially self-supporting, with full cost recovery to be deposited in a revolving
fund (which was to be established by Dec. 31, 1989). Achievements under the sub-component were



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                   3
substantial and included the establishment or improvement of 8 nurseries (5 in Sana'a, 2 in Saadah
and one in Hajjah) through provision of shade netting, equipment and seed materials. Nurseries'
seedling production reached 665,476 plants annually (SAR target was 700,000; Table 5). Net
revenue from the nurseries amounted to YR 4.0 million in 1994. However, the quality of plants is
variable and the nurseries are not yet self-supporting.
11.          Applied Research. The SAR objectives for this sub-component were to support the
establishment of a nucleus research station under the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) - now
called the Agricultural Research and Extension Authority (AREA) to serve the highland plains
covering both irrigated and rainfed crop production. AREA was to produce an agricultural research
development plan and assign staff to carry it out. The project would provide housing, offices, a
laboratory, and vehicles. The original plan was to locate these facilities within the NORADEP
headquarters to be constructed at Amran. The headquarters complex which was to house the Applied
Research Unit was not completed (paras. 18 and 25), and the research unit has now been located at
El-Ira after considerable delay. Research and Extension hold periodic meetings, and research staff
assist with problem solving, evaluation of field demonstrations and exchange of ideas. However,
few new recommendations have been released from the Al Baun research unit and extension
messages are mostly based on the experience of the field extension staff. The achievement under
the sub-component has, therefore, been limited.
(ii) Agricultural Credit
12.          This component included the following sub-components:
13.          Support to CACB.  The SAR's main objective for the sub-component was to
strengthen the operations of the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) in the project
area, through provision of field offices, vehicles and equipment. The two CACB offices have not
been constructed due to the inability of government authorities (SSHARDA, CACB and the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Resources, MAWR) to agree on who should finance the 55% of costs not
covered by the IDA credit; as a result, CACB continues to operate from rented premises. Some
positive achievements, however, were realized, which included the training of 10 CACB staff and
the supply of vehicles to facilitate its operations.
14.          Medium-Term  Credit.  The SAR envisaged that, as a result of the extension
demonstrations, about 1,300 farmers would require medium-term credit to improve irrigation
efficiency and a further 500 farmers would develop orchards. It was estimated that 50% would
approach the CACB (for 90% of loan requirements) and that IDA credit would cover 65% of
CACB's loan requirements. The achievement under the sub-component has been substantial, with
CACB providing loans (covering 65% of on-farm investment costs) to 1,116 farmers (124% of the
SAR's target of 900 farmers, Table 5). The average recovery rates between 1990-1994 were
satisfactory, the weighted average recovery rate for this period being 67%.
15.          Farm  Inputs.  The SAR's main objective for the sub-component was to meet
anticipated increases in the demand for fertilizer and crop chemicals generated by project extension
activities. Funds were to be provided for the import of 10,000 tons of fertilizer and 50 tons of plant
protection chemicals. The sub-component was successfully implemented, with procurement of 4,000
tons in 1992 and the procurement and arrival of 6,000 tons of urea in 1995, that have been
distributed to farmer cooperatives and CACB branch stores (Table 5). The latter quantity of
fertilizer will be retailed at market price (e.g., YR1,650 per 50 kg sack in Dec. 1995). The
proceeds of the sales will be retained in a special account in CACB for future purchases. A second
contract for the purchase of 1,000 tons of nitrogen, potassium and phosporous compound (NPK) has
been cancelled since the contractor was unable to ship the fertilizer before the credit closure date.



4                                       Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
The recovery of full CIF costs plus transport for the 6,000 tons of urea has been a welcome sign of
full cost recovery for inputs; the next stage should be a closer involvement of the private sector. The
achievement under the sub-component has, therefore, been substantial.
(iii) Irrigation Development
16.          Achievement under the component has been satisfactory and included the
establishment of eight demonstration farms, the installation (which is still continuing) of water tanks
and drip irrigation equipment, and the successful adoption by the private sector of drip irrigation,
with over 1,000 ha of mangoes planted by about 20 farmers, in addition to the establishment of 20
meteorological stations and three wadi gauging networks. However, some irrigation development
sub-components have been subject to delays. The design of small multi-purpose dams financed from
the UNDP Grant has been delayed, and although the feasibility studies and preliminary engineering
have been completed, the detailed design of three multi-purpose small dams were finalized just prior
to Credit closure and it has not therefore been possible to implement any of these dams using the
IDA credit. The allocation of SDR 710,000 has, therefore, been cancelled from the program. The
UNDP-funded studies and designs for the small dams could, therefore, be useful should a follow-up
phase to the project be approved and implemented.
(iv) Establishment of the Operation and Maintenance Service (O&M)
17.          The achievement under the component has been substantial. An O&M center has
been constructed at Dheibeen and SSHARDA is planning to build a further two centers under a
follow-up project. Mobile workshops, machinery and equipment have been provided, and an
expatriate expert, provided under the project, has trained the staff and supervised O&M operations.
The component for the support of the O&M activities for the Mareb Dam, part of the ongoing IDA-
financed Eastern Regional Agricultural Development Project, has been satisfactorily completed.
(v) Establishment of Permanent Headquarters for NORDA (SSHARDA)
18.         In response to the government decision to create a semi-autonomous Northern
Regional Development Authority (NORDA/SSHARDA), the project was to provide assistance in the
establishment of a permanent headquarters at Amran (this was to house, among others, the Applied
Research Unit). The design and bidding documents would be prepared using UNDP finance.
Achievement under this component has been unsatisfactory. Although the designs and bidding
documents were prepared by a national consultant and cleared by the IDA review mission of October
1993 and bids were received by March 1994, delays in reaching a decision prevented the contract
from being awarded due to time limitations prior to credit closure. Eventually a decision was taken
to develop the complex in two phases. The first phase was to be implemented under the project.
However, by the time of the July 1995 supervision mission, no decision had been reached to award
even the scaled-down first phase, and the IDA mission agreed with the SSHARDA request to build
a block center as a temporary office. This decision was not implemented due partly to the
cancellation of US$4 million from the IDA credit (para. 15) and the insufficient time remaining
before credit closure. SSHARDA, thus, continues to rent accommodation in Amran. The delay in
the construction of the Headquarters should, however, enable reconsideration of the scope of work
required for a regional headquarters, with the results being incorporated into a possible follow-on
project.



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                   5
(vi) Technical Assistance and Training
19.          The technical assistance (TA) and training programs have positively contributed to
the development of the management and technical capabilities of SSHARDA staff and has left an
established team who could implement a second-phase project.  The achievement under the
component in relation to national institution building has been substantial. Under the project,
Technical Assistance staff were recruited for a total of 36.3 staffyears to carry out various
agricultural related activities (which included Rural Development for Women) and engineering; while
under the UNDP grant finance, a total of US$3 million was expended on short-term TA (the project
recruited 55 staff years of TA; the SAR estimate was 68 staff years) (Table 5). The UNDP
component covered recruitment of consultants for the design of the SSHARDA's headquarters. The
late recruitment of the UNDP-financed consultancy in irrigation design, however, left insufficient
time for implementation of detailed design. The latter work, nevertheless, could be useful should
a follow-up phase be implemented.
Financial and Economic Objectives
20.          The economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 16.5% in the SAR. For the
ICR, the ERR has been recalculated at about 12.5 %. However, it should be noted that the ERR was
recalculated with more conservative assumptions given the limitations of data. The recalculated ERR
is lower than the appraisal figure because of the slower buildup in benefits than was projected at
appraisal and thus a lower impact than was anticipated. The assumptions and basis for the financial
and economic analysis are given in Appendix C. Project benefits derive mainly from the extension
services provided by the project on improving irrigation practices and encouraging vegetable and fruit
production by farmers. A major determinant of the results of economic analysis is the assumption
made for improvement in agricultural productivity in the without-project situation. Before the
project, the agricultural support services and on-farm technology were only poorly developed, and
in the without-project, it would be reasonable to assume that they would have continued to grow
rather more slowly than for the country as a whole. The rate of growth in the without-project
situation has, therefore, been conservatively assumed at 1 % annually during the first 15 years of the
project. In the with-project situation, incremental agricultural benefits have been assumed to start
five years after project commencement and to have reached full development in Year 15. Sensitivity
analyses to examine the effects of different without-project agricultural productivity growth rates,
reduction in the proportion of annual crop area devoted to vegetables, reduction in yields, and
changes to costs, benefits and phasing of benefits relative to costs are given in Appendix C (page 9),
indicating that ERR would drop to around 10% if benefits dropped 20% from those assumed at
appraisal.
21.          The financial and economic analyses indicate that, despite the adverse external factors
beyond the control of the project management, the project is likely to generate sufficient benefits to
recoup project costs and show a modest return on the investments made. The overall project can,
therefore, be judged as satisfactory.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Subject to Government and NORADEP's Control
22.          The following main external factors that adversely affected the economic and social
conditions in the country were beyond the control of the Government and represented substantial
challenges to project implementation:



6                                       Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
-   The Gulf War (1991) which contributed to a national slowing down of economic
activities and regional disruptions for several years to follow;
-   The resettlement and creation of new employment opportunities required for the
large number of Yemeni workers returning unexpectedly from neighboring oil-
exporting countries following the Gulf War;
-   The first national elections after the unification of Yemen were held in April
1993.  This unique and immensely important national event required the
assistance of managerial and technical staff who were only readily available in
Government institutions. The diversion of project staff from project activities
over a period of several months obviously affected the running of project
activities;
-   The reduction in the purchasing power of the Yemeni Rial due to rapidly
increasing inflation rates, eventually leading to currency devaluations that
adversely affected implementation of civil works contracts. This was caused by
the fact that all civil works contracts were denominated in Yemeni Rials and no
escalation clause was included in the contract. The situation was subsequently
corrected (1995) by a central decision from Governmnent for all civil works
contracts financed by external agencies to be denominated in US Dollars or other
hard currency;
-   The delays caused by the civil war in 1994; and
- The long period of drought during the early years of project implementation.
Factors Subject to Government Control
Project Start-up
23.          The NORADEP was the first regional agricultural development project to be initiated
in the Governorates of Saadah, Hajjah and northern Sana'a, located in the extreme north of ROY.
Project start-up was delayed due to a combination of delays resulting from slow processing prior to
effectiveness and during the first two years after effectiveness, lack of infrastructure and shortage
of trained personnel in the Region combined with budget and transport constraints.
Project Management
24.          Project management faced many constraints. At appraisal GOY had taken legislative
action to establish a Northern Regional Development Authority (NORDA), which subsequently
developed into SSHARDA. The institutional and managerial arrangements were, therefore, a new
initiative. Moreover, SSHARDA had to manage and irnplement the project in an area which
extended over 38,000 km2 (almost a fifth of the then Arab Republic of Yemen) often of rugged,
tribal terrain, lacking in infrastructure and without adequate resources of resident staff. Added to
these considerable difficulties, management also suffered from other external factors (para. 22).
Recruitment of staff and TA personnel has, therefore, been difficult throughout the life of the
project. Being a new institution and one with Regional Development Authority status did not reduce
delays in procurement operations and release of funds, as SSHARDA staff developed and operated
procedures in conformity with government regulations. These problems were in turn compounded
by late and inadequate release of government recurrent budget, and cumbersome arrangements for



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                   7
review and authorization of awards of contracts by MAWR, Ministry of Planning and Development
(MPD) and (at tirnes) the High Tender Board. Despite these difficulties SSHARDA's management
expertise and performance has been effective and improved further over the project period.
Continuity of SSHARDA's senior management during implementation was satisfactory; given
adequate operating budget, SSHARDA would be in a better position to pursue its development
objectives even more successfully in the future.
Research and Extension
25.          The project design paid particular attention to supporting applied research in the
Region with a view to maximizing the impact of agricultural extension on farmers' productivity and
income. However, since the Headquarters complex, which was to house the research facilities was
not implemented (para. 18), and research had to be carried out from temporary facilities in addition
to inadequate coordination between SSHARDA and AREA, the achievement under this sub-
component was limited (para. 11). To meet this challenge, the GOY is currently considering the
IDA supervision and ICR missions' recommendations to review the entire research program of
AREA, with particular reference to Al Baun, to identify a clear set of priorities and relevant
programs of adaptive research to meet the increasing demand for technological innovations by rainfed
and irrigated crop producers in the northern highland plains.
Monitoring and Evaluation
26.          Insufficient emphasis was placed on the setting up of effective field and M&E
programs to monitor, in particular, the extension and irrigation components. Due to a number of
constraints, including limited national capacity in M&E and the need for intensive training in this
field, staff shortages, lack of mobility, and inadequate operating budget, the main focus of M&E has
been on project inputs, with less than adequate coverage of the impact of extension service on
agricultural production as well as on the status of surface and groundwater resources.
D. Project Sustainability
27.          A main objective of the project envisaged in the SAR was to achieve a balanced
regional agricultural development in the country through project interventions in the northern
governorates, which had not benefitted from earlier government efforts. The project implementation
authority (SSHARDA) has, therefore, faced the challenge of improving the pre-project debilitated
state of the rural and agricultural sector in the region as well as the years of socio-economic and
political disturbances experienced by the country in general and the project area in particular (para.
22). Thus, while the project achievements have generally been satisfactory, its future operations and
sustainability present a major challenge to SSHARDA if timely and adequate recurrent local budget
is not provided and the very centralized procurement and management procedures are not relaxed
from Central Government.
28.          To enable SSHARDA to fulfil the conditions for project sustainability, there is a need
for a follow-up project especially designed to achieve this target. Furthermore, the project must be
seen as a first slice of a long-term development program effort extending over 15 to 20 years to
enable the rural infrastructure to be fully established and operating in a sustainable manner. As
proposed in the latest IDA supervision mission (Dec. 1995), the follow-up project could focus on
one or more of the following components: (i) support for the activities established under the present
project, and in particular extend these to areas of the now closed Central Highlands project (which
have reverted to SSHARDA's administration) as well as other activities such as poverty alleviation;
(ii) extension of infrastructure and services to 160,000 ha of areas of the three governorates not
previously covered by the present project; (iii) improvement in agricultural services in Al-Mahwit



8                                        Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Governorate; (iv) construction of small village water supply schemes that cannot be covered by
NAWASA or the Rural Water Supply Authority in addition to rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing schemes; (v) implementation of viable multi-purpose small dams studied under the current
project; (vi) establishment of a project unit for monitoring of water resources and meteorological
data; (vii) improvements in rainfed agriculture, rangeland management, animal husbandry and
terracing in agriculture; and (viii) construction of agricultural feeder roads to enable areas of
potential agricultural production to have access to the national roads network. These proposals are
being considered for implementation by GOY, which increases the likelihood of the project being
sustainable. To this effect, GOY forwarded an official request to the Bank on March 3, 1996
requesting that the Bank considers funding a second phase of the project. The Government further
emphasized that this request assumes high priority in the national development program. These
developments further reinforce the likelihood of the project's sustainability.
E. IDA Performance
29.          The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory and in line with GOY national development objectives and priorities. In particular, the
project represented a timely and appropriate intervention to assist a relatively less developed region
and thus promote more balanced regional development. The project design included a well integrated
set of objectives and activities aiming at the achievement of sustainable agricultural development
where agricultural productivity would be substantially increased while conserving the natural resource
base.
30.          However, with the benefit of hindsight, the design appears to have been too
ambitious, particularly in relation to the project size (e.g., having a large number of components [6],
sub-components [16] and covering a wide geographical area [34,000 ha over three governorates]).
Project preparation and appraisal should have also clarified responsibility for meeting the local cost
component of the proposed CACB buildings and whether funds for this purpose were to be provided
by GOY or CACB, as well as giving more emphasis to encouragement of private-sector participation,
especially in future project operations and, in particular, for nurseries and animal health services.
31.          The Bank's procedures in relation to project implementation were favorable. Initially
the project was assisted by a WB Project Preparation Facility (PPF), and requests for reimbursement
were generally submitted in a timely manner. The project completion date was extended once (from
December 31, 1995 to March 22, 1996) and procurements were expeditiously cleared.
32.          The Bank's performance in project supervision was highly satisfactory. The number
of supervision missions (13) fielded in response to different needs at various stages of project
implementation was adequate (Table 13). In addition, a mid-term review mission was fielded by the
IDA in April 1993, and another mid-term review of the UNDP component was also carried out in
1993. Most missions incorporated well balanced specialized staff skills (Table 13) and included
representatives from the UNDP as well as members of the national management team (SSHARDA).
There was continuity among missions in terms of follow-up of critical issues, recommendations and
plans of action. Mission reporting was comprehensive and provided rigorous analysis of the
project's progress and difficulties, recognized important issues and constraints and proposed
pragmatic solutions. In particular, the supervision and review missions worked closely with the
national management team and concerned GOY officials in identifying and addressing key issues
affecting project performance and directing their efforts to persuade GOY officials to resolve
bottlenecks and provide advice to assist in project implementation. The project's national team has
made a positive and constructive contribution to the supervision and review missions, while the IDA



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                   9
staff were cognizant of the national political, economic and social conditions in the country and their
impact on project implementation.
F. Borrower Performance
33.          In spite of the negative external factors that were beyond Government control and
presented serious challenges to project implementation (para. 22), GOY performance in project
implementation was mixed. The project management was satisfactory and managers and staff were
motivated and performed their duties under extremely difficult conditions.  However, the
Government's performance regarding recurrent budgetary allocations was less than satisfactory,
particularly during the last three years of project implementation. At appraisal, the Government was
expected to contribute around US$18.4 million, or 47% of project costs. In actuality, expenditure
by Government was about US$15.9 million, or 50% of total project costs at credit closing (Table
8B). This is a good indication of Government's commitment to the project area although the
availability of recurrent budget was not satisfactory during the last two years of project
implementation.
34.          Government procedures for procurement involved review and authorization at a
number of levels by MAWR, MPD and the High Tender Committee. This frequently resulted in
delays and prevented timely project implementation. Following suggestions by a number of IDA
supervision missions, procurement procedures have substantially improved during the later years of
project implementation.
35.          While SSHARDA's management and coordination of the project has been satisfactory,
the Authority should be granted further autonomy to reduce over centralization, simplify
administrative and implementation procedures and enhance regional decision making.  The
Government coordination of IDA and UNDP components was successful in the harmonization of
project activities and ensuring continuity of UNDP financial support to the project.
36.          With few exceptions, the Government has complied satisfactorily with the legal
covenants as specified in the Development Credit Agreement (Table 10).
G. Assessment of Outcome
37.          As designed, the project was optimistic regarding what could be achieved over a six-
year implementation period, given the limitations of the project area. Delayed project start-up and
factors external to the project (which affected the whole of Yemen) have further constrained the
project's performance and impact. The achievement in the construction and operation of extension
and block centers was substantial. The achievement in the construction of SSHARDA's headquarters
and complementary buildings, however, was unsatisfactory. Success in institutional strengthening
(increasing both staff numbers and their competence), has been considerable. Numbers of staff
trained, extension agents and SMS fielded and farmers covered by extension generally equalled or
exceeded the appraisal targets. The exception has been the implementation of the RDW sub-
component, which has developed slowly (as foreseen in the SAR) due to socio-economic factors in
the Region (para. 8). Extension services have successfully reached the SAR planned target of
34,000 ha. However, the main emphasis in agricultural extension has been on irrigated areas and
in particular on the introduction of fruit and vegetables into the farming system. A main reason for
this emphasis appears to be the limitation of relevant extension messages for adoption by farmers in
the rainfed areas. Although the strategy of concentrating on the higher-potential irrigated areas is
well understood, consideration of overall development and equity objectives require more emphasis
to be given to rainfed farming development in the future.



10                                        Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
H. Future Operation
38.           At the time of the ICR mission SSHARDA had not proposed a formal plan for future
operations of the project. Continuation of SSHARDA's activities and their adequate funding by
government will be essential for the continued agricultural and rural development of the region. The
Government has officially requested the Bank to consider funding a follow-on second project. The
request is under consideration by the Bank due to the high priority attached by the Government to
the project. The follow-on second project may include support to agricultural and rural development,
such as consolidation and follow-up of the actions already financed under both this and the Central
Highlands project, as well as increasing the area covered by SSHARDA's services as given in para.
28 above.
I. Key Lessons Learned
39.           The following are the main lessons learned:
(a) Management of projects that aim at sustainable regional agricultural development
require an effective monitoring and evaluation system that incorporates
environmental protection and natural resource conservation indicators. Such a
system would not only review physical achievements, but also assess the
environmental and resource conservation impact of the project (para. 26).
(b) Extension can only be successful if it can offer sound technical support to
farmers. This can only be achieved if strong links are forged between research
and extension and adequate resources are available for research institutions to
provide their contributions in a timely manner (paras. 11, 25).
(c) To be effective, the research program must clearly identify priority areas and
develop an appropriate research strategy and field program, particularly in
regard to rainfed farming in northern highland areas (paras. 11, 25).
(d) The strong social issues concerning the role of women in rural development in
the Northern Region calls for the adoption of a modest and slow approach over
a long time frame. Emphasis should be placed on addressing the social and
cultural constraints that hinder a direct approach and affect the important role
played by women (para. 8).
(e) The large number of sub-components (16) and the wide geographical coverage
in a region fraught with social and economic difficulties made implementation
and supervision an extremely difficult task.   Design of projects to be
implemented in areas of particular difficulty should be simplified to the full
extent possible, and, where feasible, sites and activities should be grouped in
order to facilitate implementation and supervision (para. 30).
(f) The shortage in local recurrent budget allocations, required for funding vital
project activities, such as agricultural extension, is a major drawback to
obtaining the planned benefits from the project. Assurances must be given by
Government at negotiations that recurrent budgets of an agreed amount must be
allocated in a timely manner for the project (para. 33).



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                  11
(g) Civil works contracts should be denominated in a stable currency which is
unlikely to fluctuate significantly in its purchasing power during the course of
contract implementation. Alternatively, the escalation formula should be used
to adjust contract rates to ensure that contractors are fairly remunerated. This
was one of the reasons of delays in implementing civil works contracts which
were denominated in Yemeni Rials. In the last year of project implementation,
this was overcome and civil contracts were being denominated in US Dollars
(para. 22). IDA and the Government have addressed this issue during the 1995
CPPR by agreeing to use contracts denominated in a stable foreign currency.
(h) To improve the effectiveness of project management, the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) should be fully utilized in briefing project management at an early
stage of implementation on IDA procurement procedures, project approach,
indicators and ways and means to achieve efficient implementation. A project
launch workshop in the project cycle can also assist in improving project
implementation.
(i) Development and application of qualitative indicators (rather than reliance solely
on delivery of project inputs) is important for effective management of projects
that include major institution building and specific socio-economic objectives
(e.g. development of a disadvantaged region).



12                                        Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTUJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1886-YAR)
PART II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1:    Summary of Assessments
Table  2:    Related IDA Credits
Table  3:    Project Timetable
Table  4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table  5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table  6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table  7:    Studies included in the Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table  9:    Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    IDA Resources: Missions



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                                        13
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives                 Substantial         Partial       Negligible      Not Applicable
(V)           (    )             (.                ()
Macro policies                                                                                I IZ  ZI
Sector policies                           Enl               El              IZ                oZ
Financial objectives                       [l]               El             EI]                   ]
Institurional development                  [ E                                ii              I
Physical objectives                        []                                                 ElI
Poverty reduction                           El              IZ              E ]                El
Gender issues                              El               [1]            El]               Fl
Other social objectives                    IIE E                                              E-]
Environmental objectives                                     E             E ]                E
Public sector management                   Fl                E                 I              E]
Private sector development                 F J             FKF                       E- [I]
Other (specify)                            [I]                               El]               El
B. Proiect sustainability                      Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
()               (V)
Hiahly
C. IDA performance                          satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification
Preparation assistance                     [Ie
Appraisal                                    i                              R
Supervision                                El              IZI              F-I
Higzhiv
D. Borrower merformance                      satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation
Implementaion                              H                                H
Covenant compliance                        ED                E7              El
Operation (if applicable)                                   LI]             F -
Hiehlv
E. Assessment of outcome                   Hiehly          Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
satisfactory       (0)                 (V)                 ()
O   El   El   E



14                                           Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                            Purpose                    Year of   Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Wadi Hadramaut Agricultural    To build up infrastructure and institutions, carry   1976   Closed
Development Project (WHADP) I out pilot developments in area of the follow-up
(Cr. 615-YDR)                  WHADP II.
2. Tihama Agricultural Development To provide irrigation, village water supplies,  1978   Closed
Project II (Cr. 805-YAR)       extension, sand dune stabilization, infrastructure
and development of State farms for agricultural
development in Wadi Rima.
3. Tihamna Agricultural Development To increase agricultural production in Wadi  1979   Closed
Project III (Cr. 880-YAR)      Mawr by effectively using spate flows and
helping recharge the aquifer; strengthening
agricultural support services (research, extension
credit), building feeder roads, and providing
potable water to rural poor.
4. Tihama Development Project IV   To support the Second Agricultural           1980   Closed
(Cr. 978-YAR)                  Development in Wadi Rima through provision
of surface irrigation in the form of permanent
diversion structures.
5. Wadi Hadramaut Agricultural    To increase agricultural production, raise farmer   1983   Closed
Development Project 11        incomes, correct falling water table via use of
(Cr. 1346-YDR)                 deep-lying aquifers, provide farm machinery an
technical assistance.
6. Central Highlands Agricultural    To improve farm incomes through production  1984   Closed
Development Project            and productivity increases, provide potable
(CR. 1453-YAR)                 water.
7. Agricultural Research and      To strengthen agricultural research and       1985   Closed
Extension Project (Cr. 1557-   extension capacity in Central Highlands,
YDR)                           Tropical Lowlands, Southern Uplands regions.
cont'd/2



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                             15
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                            Purpose                    Year of   Status
Approval
Following Operations
1. Tihama V (Cr. 1667-YAR)        The project is a follow-up to Tihama I-IV,    1986   Dec. 31,
designed to ensure sustainability by establishing    1995
regional extension, veterinary O&M services for      (irrigation
the Tihama Region and supporting women in            works
development. The project would improve               only and
utilization of available land, water and human       on excep-
resources in Tihama Region and help substitute      tional
for agricultural imports.                            basis.
extended
to Apr.
130,1 996)1
2. Southern Regional Agricultural   To increase agricultural productivity and farmer   1987   Closed
Development Project            income in Southern Region through
(Cr. 1772-YAR)                 strengthening agricultural services in extension,
credit and input supplies, assist O&M of project
infrastructure and water, raise technical
capability of staff, provide assistance to women
farmers.
3. Northern Regional Agricultural   To improve agricultural productivity through:  1988   Closed
Development Project            (i) improved agricultural services, (ii) better
(Cr. 1886-YAR)                 land management, (iii) improved irrigation and
agricultural practices and improved
health/nutrition, establish regional extension and
O&M to ensure sustainability
4. Eastern Region Agricultural    To provide extension and research services,   1989   On-going
Development Project           irrigation management, institution building to
(Cr. 1983-YAR)                improve agricultural productivity and farmer
incomes in Marib Governorate, particularly area
around Marib Dam.
5. Wadi Hadramaut Agricultural    To follow up on WHADP II with intention of    1989   On-going
Development Project III       expanding irrigated area.
(Cr. 2045-YDR)
6. Agricultural Sector Management  To create within MAWR the management basis   1992   On-going
Support Project               for modern agricultural sector, and to strengthen
(Cr. 2299-YEM)                agricultural research. Also to improve general
operations of MAWR.
7. Land and Water Conservation    To begin a national program to gain control   1992   On-going
Project (Cr. 2373-YEM)        over land and water resources.



16                                            Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned           Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              Nov. 24, 1986       June 2, 1987
Preparation                                                                 March, 1987
Appraisal                                               June 21, 1987       June/July 1987
Negotiations                                            Dec. 1, 1987        Jan. 25-30, 1988
Board Presentation                                      Feb. 16, 1988       March 22, 1988
Signing                                                 July 29, 1988       August 4, 1988
Effectiveness                                           Dec. 4, 1988        July 13, 1989
Midterm review (if applicable)                          Dec. 31, 1991       March 24 - April 10, 1993
Project completion                                      Dec. 31, 1995       March 22, 1996
Loan closing                                            Dec. 31, 1995       March 22, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thousands)
FY 88   FY 89   FY 90  FY 91 FY 92   FY 93   FY 94  FY 95  FY 96
Appraisal estimate            0.3    1.3        5.3   9.8   12.8        14.8    16.4    17.4'  17.6!'
Actual                         -     0.84 b/    1.74  3.96   6.95        8.56    9.79    13.19   13.4
Actual as % of estimate                65      33    40      54         58      60        76!P  76!'
Date of final disbursement   June 27, 1996
a/ US$4.0 million were cancelled from IDA credit in 1995, reducing IDA cormmitment to 13.4. Thus, actual
disbursement as a percent of reduced IDA commitment in 1995 and 1996 was 98%.
bl Actual disbursement for FY 1988/89.



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                            17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
SAR Estimates          Revised         Actual
I. Key Implementation Indicators                                     Estimates
in SAR/President's Report
Unit
A. AGRICULTURE
1. Operating block centers al                No.           6               6              6
2. Operating extension centers               No.          39              48             49
3. Extension agents b                        No.          50              50             88
4. SMS c'                                    No.          24              35             43
5. Farmers contacted                         No.        9,200          9,200         13,309
6. Farmers adopting technology               No.        9,200          9,200          9,316
7. Field demonstrations (0.1-0.2 ha) EA f    No.        1,320          1,320          1,958
8. Other demonstrations (EA)                 No.         936             936          4,600
9. Continuing field demonstrations (SMS)     No.          92              92              0
10. Extension leaflets                      No.            0               0             33
11. Crop area covered                        ha       34,380          34,380         34,000
12. Nurseries                                No.           6               9              9
13. Seedlings produced from nurseries        No.     700,000         700,000        665,476
(fruit & coffee) s'
B. CACB
14. Loan beneficiaries                       No.         900             900          1,116
15. Purchase of fertilizer                   ton       10,000         10,000         10,000
16. Purchase of agricultural pesticides      ton          50              50             48
C. TA and TRAINING
17. TA                                      SIY El        68              68             55
18. Preservice (EA)                          No.          56              56             63
19. Inservice (SMS) f'                       No.          35              35            362
20. Overseas training f                     S/M f'       178             178            359
D. ENGINEERING
21. Civil works: SSHARDA's HQ office hl      M2          650           1,760              0



18                                                        Northern Regional Agricultural Developnent Project
SAR Estimates                 Revised              Actual
I. Key Implementation Indicators                                                          Estimates
in SAR/President's Report
Unit
22. SSHARDA's residence h/                                 M2            2,040               2,816                    0
23. Workshop - Amran                                       m2              300                 300                    0
24. Training &  inf. centre                                m2              530                 530                    0
25. Block centers (5 x 732 rn2) 1'                         M2            3,660               4,459               2,461
26. Extension centers (39 x 105 m2)                        m2            4,095               4,095               3,255
27. Support to Sana'a 'P Office                            M2              150                    0                   0
28. Support to Saadah office &  residence                  m2              650                 672                 672
29. Support to Hajjah office &  residence                  m2              650                 450                    0
30. Research staff residence (7 x 150 m2) 1'               M2            1,050                 450                    0
31. CACB  field offices (2 x 300 m2) m/                    m2              600                 600                    0
32. TOTAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTED                             M2           14,375              16,132               6,388
Notes:
9' Operated centers include two newly-constructed and 4 rented centers.
-' Staffing for extension centre.
SMS: Subject matter specialists; and S/Y staff-year.
d/ EA: Extension agents.
f   Annual plants production, including afforestation and omamental plants.
!' GOY highly emphasized the need for institution building and hence increased substantially the number of national trainees.
f' S/M: Staff-month.
h/ These civil works were planned originally as integral components of the HQ. Advertising was made for the HQ and the complementary
building in 1993, bidding in 1994, and submission to High Tender Board in 1994. However, due to the delayed procedures and with the
financial cut of US$4.0 million from IDA's loan, these civil works were cancelled.
I Three block centers were completed; I about 15% completed; and 2 cancelled.
'   Due to encountered financial difficulties, devaluation of Yemeni Rials and other external factors, this activity was cancelled.
u   In view of the problem of securing land for building, an altemative was proposed to add a floor to existing MAWR building. However,
as feasibility studies proved that this option was not viable, and with implementation delays and financial cuts, this work was cancelled.
!'  Seven resident buildings, a laboratory and supply of furmiture and equipment were envisaged in SAR. Two resident housing (500 m2) were
denoted to the binding project. It was agreed to establish 2 in Saada, I in Al-Batana and 3 to be incorporated in the HQ complex. But due
to delays in procedures and financial constraints these civil works were cancelled.
m/ It was originally agreed that the counterpart financial contribution to this civil works was 55 % of the cost. But, due to the indecision as
to who should pay this amount (the GOY or CACB), delays resulted and this item was cancelled.



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                         19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating Indicators in
SAR/President's Report                          Estimated                                       Actual
Not applicable.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose as defined at                           Status                                Impact of Study
AppraisaUredefined
Technical and feasibility  Preparation of water         Several analytical reports were prepared including:    The analytical studies on
studies for wadi           management plans and         - Regional Water Management Plan;                      plans for water management
improvement in the Tihama  detailed design of multi-    - Northern Tihama Wadi Development Study;              were useful in providing
area                       purpose dams for the         - Water Management Plan: Al Ashshah Target Area;       general orientation to the
improvement of small-scale    - Water Management Plan: Khaywan Target Area;         irrigation development
irrigation schemes in several  - Water Management Plan: Amran Valley Target Area;    component. However, the late
wadis of the project area.  - Water Management Plan: Baqim Plain Target Area;       recruitment of UNDP-
- Water Management Plan: Sa'Dah Plain Target Area;     fimanced consultancy in
- Water Management Plan: Kohlan Target Area;           irrigation design left
- Agro-economic and Sociological Sondeo Study; Volume 1: insufficient time for
Main Report;                                         implementation of detailed
- Agro-economic and Sociological Sondeo Study: Volume II: designs. The latter studies
Target Area Studies                                  will be useful for possible
implementation under a
The final reports on detailed design of multi-purpose dams  follow-on second project.
were completed at end of December 1995.



20                                           Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest Estimate
Item                                                    (US$M)
Local  Foreign            Local  Foreign
Costs   Costs   Total   Costs   Costs   Total
1. Agricultural services              5.92    7.50    13.42    8.86      6.58   15.44
2. Agricultural credit                1.72    2.31      4.03    1.45     4.15    5.60
3. Irrigation development             1.29    0.79      2.08    1.83     0.05    1.88
4. Establishment of O&M service       0.07     1.15     1.22    3.24      -       3.24
5. Establishment of project HQ        3.50    2.06      5.56    0.93      -       0.93
6. TA and training                    0.96    4.94      5.90    0.08     4.95    5.03
Total Baseline Cost                  13.46   18.76    32.22   16.39    15.73   32.12
Physical contingencies                1.46    1.90      3.36    -         -       -
Price contingencies                   1.68    2.13      3.81    -         -       -
Total Project Cost                   16.60   22.78    39.38   16.39    15.73   32.12
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest Estimate (US$M)
Source             Local   Foreign                 Local    Foreign
Costs    Costs      Total      Costs      Costs   Total
IBRD/IDA                        -       17.6        17.6 al    _          13.19   13.19
Cofinancing institutions        -        3.4         3.4       -          3.01    3.01
U N D P                      _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _
Domestic contribution          16.6      1.8        18.4      15.92        -      15.92
G O Y                        _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _    _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _
TOTAL                        16.6     22.8         39.4      15.92      16.20   32.12
-' US$4.0 million were cancelled from IDA's loan in 1995.



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                    21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 16.5% in the SAR. For the ICR, the
ERR is recalculated at about 11.8%. Assumptions and basis for the financial and economic
analysis are given in Appendix C. Project benefits derive mainly from the focus of the
extension services provided by the project on improving irrigation practices and
encouraging vegetable and fruit production by farmers. A major determinant of the
economic analysis result is the assumption made for improvement in agricultural
productivity in the without project situation. Before the project the agricultural support
services and on-farm technology were only poorly developed and in the without project it
would be reasonable to assume that they would have continued to grow rather more slowly
than for the country as a whole. The rate of growth in the without project situation has,
therefore, been assumed at 1.5% annually during the first 15 years of the project. In the
with project situation incremental agricultural benefits have been assumed to start five years
after project commencement and to have reached full development in Year 15. Sensitivity
analyses to examine the effect of different without project agricultural productivity growth
rates, reduction in the proportion of annual crop area devoted to vegetables; reduction in
yields; and changes to costs, benefits and phasing of benefits relative to costs are given in
Appendix C.
The financial and economic analysis indicates that despite the adverse external factors
beyond the control of the project management the project is likely to generate sufficient
benefits to recoupe project costs and show a modest return on the investments made. The
result can, therefore, be judged satisfactory.



22                                                        Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present    Present  Original Fulfillment     Revised
Agreement          Section           Covenant    Status           Date         Fulfilment Date    Description of        Comments
Type                                                         Covenant                         l
1. Credit    Sch. 4 01 (b) ii        1              C       Annual               Annual         Annual audit report.  In compliance.
. Credit    Sch. 4, Para. 1         5, 10          C                                           Appointment of a      In compliance.
technical committee.
3. Credit    Sch. 4, Para. 2         1, 2           CP      Dec. 31, 1989        Dec. 31. 1989  Seedlings sale prices   Seedling prices
to be adequate to    have been
recover production    improved but
costs; and           still below
establishment a      market price. A
revolving fund for   project account
nursery operations   has been
established for
nurseries.
. Credit    Sch. 4, Para. 3         5, 10          C       Jan. 31, 1989        Jan. 31, 1989   SSHARDA to prepare  In compliance.
detailed training
program for IDA
review.
5. Credit    Sch. 4. Para. 4         9              C       Oct. 1, 1988         Oct. 1, 1988    Submission to IDA o   In compliance.
TORs for M&E
study.
. Credit  Sch. 4, Para. 5           10             C       Semi-annual          Semi-annual    Preparation of semi-  In compliance.
annual progress
reports.
. Credit    Sch. 4, Para. 6         5, 10          C       Dec. 31, 1991        Sept. 30, 1992  Preparation of mid-    In compliance.
term review report.
8. Credit    Article II, Section 2.09   2, 3        CP      June 30. 1990                       Establishment of      omplied with
(CACB)                                                                             revolving fund for    artially. An
fertilizer and plant    ccount establishe
protection chemicals with the CACB.
by CACB.



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                     23
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Present    Present  Original Fufillment    Revised
Agreement          Section         Covenant   Status            Date        Fulfilment Date    Description of       Comments
Type                                                        Covenant
Credit    Article IV, Section 4.01   1          CP      Annual              Annual         CACB to maintain    In compliance.
(CACB)                                                                           records and annual
audit reports.
10. Credit   Schedule 2, Part C,    5             C       n.a.                n.a.           Development by       In compliance.
Para. 2                                                                          CACB of appropriate
procedures for credit
evaluation and
assistanc to
agriculturd extension
Notes:
Covenant Types                                                                                 Present Stat.
I  Accounts/audit                                       8  Indigenous people                  C    s Covenant complied with
2  Financial perfonnance/operating revenue from beneficiaries 9  Monitoring, review and reporting  CD  = Complied with ater delay
3  Flow and utilization of project funds                10 Implementation                      CP      Complied with partaly
4  Counterpart funds                                    11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
other resource allocation            NC  = Not complied with
5 Management aspects of the
project or of its executing agency                  12  Sector or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
6  Environmental covenants                              13  Sector policy conditionality: administrative change
7  Involuntary resettlement                             14  Sector policy conditionality: regulatory change



24                                              Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Describe and comment on Lack of
Statement Number and Title                          Compliance
No deviation from applicable operational manual statements observed.
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle       Weeks      US$       Weeks        US$       Weeks   '000 US$
Through appraisal                                                     8.3
Appraisal-Board
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 4 8 .4
Board-effectiveness                                                   9.2
Supervision
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 8 0 .2
Completion
TOTAL                                                             220.2



Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project                                                                   25
Table 13: IDA Resources: Missions
Specialized      Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle  Month/Year Number  Days in   Staff Skills                                  Types of
or     Field   represented-' Implementation Development   Problems f
Persons                            Status b'    Objectives
Through appraisal
Appraisal through Board
approval__ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                       __ _ _ _ _ _
Supervision
10-11/88      2       30         IE, A           HS            HS             -
2                          6-7/89       3       30        IE, A, E          S            HS          CW.RE
3                          10/89        1        7           IE            HS            HS           CW, S
4                           6/90        3       24       IE, A, ME          S             S       M, S, CW, PR
5                           3/91        2        8         IE, A            S             S        EF, PR, T, S
6                          11/91        2        11        IE, A            S             S         S, ME, RE
7 1,                       2/92         1        2           Is                           -            S, 1
81'                        5-6/92       2       58         A, IE            S             S         S, ME, RE
9,                         3-4/93       4       68    IE, E, A, WD          S             S       S, AC, ER, O
10                         10/93        2       24         IE, A            S             S      S, AC, ER, ME
11                         1/95         2       14         IE, A            S             S        CW, F, TA
12                         7/95         1        6          IE              S             S        CW, F, PR
13V                       11-12/95      2        16        IE, E            S             S        CW, F, PR
"   A    Agriculturist; E = Economist; IE = Irrigation Engineer; ME = Monitoring and Evaluation; WD = Women in
Development Specialist; IS = Institutional Specialist
b/   HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory
S = Staff recruitment; CW  = Civil Works; F = Financial (recurrent counterpart funding); T = Transport; M  =
Management; TA = Technical Assistance; P = Procurement delays; ME = Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation System;
I = Institutional; CO = Coordination; 0 = Operational Difficulties; ER = Exchange Rate; TR = Training; RE =
Research and Extension Messages; EF = Extemal factors (e.g. Gulf war); AC = Access to credit. PR = Procedures.
d   A special 2-day supervision mission by an Institutional development expert focussed on WID component (form  590 was not
available).
d/   Review missions.
El   Mid-term review mission.
1' Form 590 was not available at the time the ICR was being prepared.



- 26 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1886-YAR)
Appendices
Appendix A.    Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Mission
Appendix B.    Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.    Notes on Financial and Economic Analysis



- 27 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1886-YAR)
Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Mission
APPENDIX A



- 28 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1886-YAR)
Aide-Memoire of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Mission
A. Introduction
1.           A mission4 from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme visited the Republic
of Yemen from November 23 to December 11, 1995 to prepare Implementation Completion Reports
(ICRs) for the above mentioned project as well as the Southern Regional Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 1772 - YAR). This document is the Aide-M6moire for the former project. The timing
of the mission coincided with the IDA final supervision mission led by Mr. Nejdet Al-Salihi, Senior
Engineer and the project's Task Manager and Mr. Tijan Sallah (Economist, WB).
2.           The mission worked in close collaboration with the General Manager and the staff
of the project. Field visits were made to several project locations in Sana'a, Saadah and Hajjah
Governorates. The mission is especially grateful to H.E. the Minister of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR) who received the mission and stressed the Government's high priority attached
to the projects sustainability and follow-up activities. The mission is grateful to Mr. Ghazi Nasser
Mohammed, Chairman of the Sana'a/Saadah/Hajjah Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
(SSHARDA), Mr. Nabil M. Magam, General Manager of SSHARDA and Authority staff for their
views and insights; assistance in gathering and discussing the necessary information and data; and
organizing successful field visits. Special thanks and appreciation are due to Dr. Mazhar Adballa,
the project's senior consultant, for providing comprehensive data and elaborating the project's
performance and progress. Dr. Abdalla is currently assisting SSHARDA in preparation of the ICR
from the borrowers' perspective. Substantial contributions to the mission's work were also made by
the MAWR, and the mission is particularly grateful to Messrs. Abdul Malik Al-Thawr, Director
Agricultural Planning Division and Mr. Mohammed Abdul Bari, Agricultural Planning Division,
MAWR for the benefit of their comments and views and enormous help to the mission not only in
technical aspects but also logistically. Preliminary impressions and findings of the mission are
presented below and are subject to modification following detailed analysis.
B. Background
Funding
3.           The Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project (NORADEP) was prepared
in March 1987, appraised in July 1987, and presented to WB's Board on March 22, 1988.
Subsequently, an IDA credit consisting of SDR 12.5 million (US$17.6 million) was signed on August
4, 1988 and becamne effective on July 13, 1989. The IDA Credit, to be disbursed over seven years,
covered about 45%  of the total project costs.  According to the project Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), the remainder was to be financed by a United Nations Development Programme
4/ Consisting of Messrs. F.K.Bishay (Mission Leader, Economist), J.H.Weatherhogg (Agricultural Economist),
and J.H.Newton (Agronomist, Consultant).



- 29 -
(UNDP) grant of US$3.4 million, in addition to the GOY's contribution of US$18.4 million
equivalent. The actual disbursements for project implementation were: IDA, US$13.0 million;
UNDP, US$3.0 million; and GOY, US$16.4 million equivalent. In 1995 the amount of US$4.0
million was cancelled from the IDA Credit following the recommendations of the Country Portfolio
Performance Review agreed upon by the IDA and the Government in May 1995.
Objectives
4.           The main objectives of the project included: (i) increasing agricultural productivity
and incomes of farmers by means of (a) improved agricultural services, (b) better management of
land and water resources and manpower and (c) improved irrigation and agricultural practices; and
(ii) improving the health/nutrition standards of the rural families through provision of development
opportunities for rural women. This would help increase agricultural production, primarily sorghum,
wheat, alfalfa, fruits, and vegetables in the project area, thus contributing to efficient import
substitution, accompanied by improvement in the living standards of the rural population. The project
was also to meet the Government's priority objective of accelerated development of the Northern
Region comprising the two northern Governorates of Saadah and Hajjah and the northern part of the
Sana'a Governorate because of sociopolitical considerations and for ensuring more balanced regional
development in the country.
Components
5.          The project included components for: (i) regional agricultural extension services; (ii)
agricultural credit; (iii) irrigation development; (iv) O&M services; (v) project headquarters; and (vi)
technical assistance and training.
C. Implementation Experience and Results
Project Start-Up
6.          The NORADEP was the first regional agricultural development project to be initiated
in the Governorates of Saadah, Hajjah and northern Sana'a located in the extreme north of ROY.
The components were implemented by SSHARDA which is a development authority operating within
MAWR. Project start-up was delayed due to a delay in GOY clearance, lack of infrastructure,
shortage of trained personnel in the Northern Region and budget and transport constraints.
Achievements by Component
7.           The NORADEP had six main components and sixteen sub-components; the objectives,
performance and achievements of each are briefly reviewed below:
(i) Regional Agricultural Services
8.          This component contained four sub-components: (i) establishment of a regional
extension service (including pioneer activities for women); (ii) establishment of nurseries; (iii)
applied research; and (iv) veterinary service support.
9.          Extension Service and Rural Development for Women. The main objectives of this
sub-component were to establish an agricultural extension service including rural development for
women. The Northern Regional Development Authority (which became SSHARDA) was to
implement the sub-component and to be responsible for developing the capacity of the Governorates
to take over the running of all extension responsibilities at project completion. The service was to
have a single line of authority and introduce sound planning, proper monitoring and evaluation of



- 30 -
extension activities, comprehensive staff training, relevant technical support, and effective linkage
and working relationship with research.
10.          The physical achievement under this sub-component has been substantial. Of the total
39 extension centers proposed in the SAR, 28 have been completed, 4 are still under construction,
and 17 others are rented to give a total of 49 operating centers. Staffing has exceeded SAR levels
with 88 extension staff (50 in the SAR) and 43 subject matter specialists (24 in the SAR). A total
of 13,300 farmers are estimated to have been contacted (145% of SAR), 1,960 field demonstrations
on 0.1 to 0.2 ha have been established (148% of SAR), 4,600 other demonstrations have been
carried out (936 in SAR) and 34,000 ha are estimated to have been reached (100% of SAR). Of the
6 block centers planned in the SAR, three were constructed, a fourth is 15% completed, work on
the fifth has ceased, and three are rented.
11.          While these physical achievements are impressive, the delays in construction, lack
of transport, and shortage of operating budget have hampered the mobility and reduced the
effectiveness of the extension service. Planning of field programs and monitoring of the impact of
the component have been weak, and limited objective quantification of benefits has been carried out.
An effective linkage with research has not been achieved (see below) which has weakened the overall
impact; although good results have been achieved through demonstration of irrigated horticultural
crops (mainly mango).
12.          The Rural Development for Women Program (RDW) commenced in 1991 has faced
serious social constraints and adopted a modest approach with operations confined to 10 villages in
the Amran area. The RWD Section consisted of a graduate female head supported by 5 female
extension agents (trained in Egypt) with a minibus for transportation. The Section is in need of 3
female subject matter specialists (SMSs), 2 additional extension staff, more training, 2 additional
vehicles and a realistic operating budget. Achievements to date include the completion of needs
assessment surveys (social, economic and agricultural) in the 10 villages and a number of home
visits. This is an important activity which needs continuing support with increased emphasis placed
on identifying the social and cultural constraints which limit the access of project staff to the rural
women who play such an important role in agricultural production.
13.          Regional Veterinary Services. This sub-component was planned to expand and
strengthen the veterinary service in the Northern Region by providing additional facilities for routine
vaccination, parasite control, treatment of animal diseases and data collection. SAR proposals
included provision of laboratory equipment for 2 new clinics, training of technicians and provision
of vehicles. The sub-component has suffered from inadequate staffing with only one veterinary
doctor, one assistant vet and four veterinary technicians (vaccinators). Lack of transport has also
hindered the scope of the services coverage with activities concentrated at rural markets. Successful
vaccinations were carried out for cattle rinderpest (26,000 doses) and sheep pox (21,000 doses). The
vaccinations are given free of charge whilst other medicines are supplied at a subsidized charge.
Retention of the revenues from these services within an account located in the Governorate could
assist with the regular procurement of supplies.
14.        Establishment of Nurseries. The SAR objectives for the sub-component were to
expand both the quantity and quality of seedlings produced in governorate nurseries to meet the
anticipated incremental demand created as a result of project actions. This was to be achieved by
establishing a new nursery (at Magash) and expanding production at 4 existing nurseries through
provision of infrastructure (shade houses and irrigation) and inputs.The nurseries were to be
financially self-supporting with full cost recovery to be deposited in a revolving fund (which was to
be established by Dec. 1988). Achievements under the component were satisfactory and included the
establishment or improvement of 8 nurseries (5 in Sana'a, 2 in Saadah and one in Hajjah) through
provision of shade netting, equipment and seed materials. Revenue from the nurseries amounted to



- 31 -
YR 4.0 million in 1994. However, the quality of plants is variable and the nurseries are not yet self-
supporting. The sub-component now needs to be reassessed in the light of government policies
regarding cost recovery, farmer demand and efforts made to increase private sector involvement.
15.        Applied Research. The SAR objectives for the sub-component were to establish a
nucleus research station under the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) - now called the
Agricultural Research and Extension Authority (AREA) - to serve the highland plains covering both
irrigated and rainfed crop production. AREA was to produce an agricultural research development
plan and assign staff for its implementation. The project would provide housing, an office,
laboratory, and vehicles. The original plan was to locate these facilities within the NORADEP
headquarters to be constructed at Amran. Due to a variety of reasons, the headquarters complex was
not completed (see below) and the research unit has now been located at Al Baun after considerable
delay. Research and extension hold periodic meetings and research staff assist with problem solving
(albeit on an ad hoc basis), evaluation of field demonstrations and exchange of ideas. However,
virtually no new recommendations have been released from the Al Baun research unit and extension
messages are mostly based on the experience of the field extension staff. The mission recommended
that the entire research program of AREA (with particular reference to Al Baun) be reviewed,
preferably with the assistance of ISNAR or CGIAR, to identify a clear set of priorities and relevant
programs of adaptive research to meet the increasing demand for technological innovations by rainfed
and irrigated crop producers in the northern highland plains.
(ii) Agricultural Credit
16.        This component had 3 sub-components: (i) infrastructure support to CACB; (ii) medium
term credit to farmers for establishment of irrigated orchards; and (iii) establishment of a revolving
fund for the purchase of farm inputs.
17.        Support to CACB. The SAR main objective for the sub-component was to strengthen
the operations of CACB through provision of field offices, vehicles and equipment. The two CACB
offices have not been constructed due to the inability of government authorities (SSHARDA, CACB
and MAWR) to agree on who should finance the 55% of costs not covered by IDA credit. Positive
achievements, however, included the training of 10 CACB staff and supply of vehicles (the last 4
will not now be procured due to cancellation of the tender).
18.        Medium-Term  Credit. The SAR envisaged that, as a result of the extension
demonstrations, about 1,300 farmers would require medium term credit to improve irrigation
efficiency and that a further 500 farmers would develop orchards. It was estimated that 50% would
approach the CACB (for 90% of loan requirements) and that IDA credit would cover 65% of
CACB's loan requirements. This sub-component has been successful with CACB disbursing loans
(covering 65% of investment costs) to over 1,100 farmers for investment in irrigation improvement
(38%), livestock (32%), fruit orchard development (11 %), agricultural equipment (9%), and honey
production (8%). The mission recommended that the targeting of these loans be reviewed for a
possible Phase II component to ensure that the benefits were spread over a wide range of farm fanily
incomes.
19.        Purchase of Farm Inputs. The SAR main objective for the sub-component was to meet
anticipated incremental increase in the demand for fertilizer and crop chemicals generated by project
extension activities. Funds were provided for the import of 10,000 tons of fertilizer and 50 tons of
plant protection chemicals. The sub-component was successfully implemented with procurement of
4,000 tons in 1992, and the recent procurement and arrival of 6,000 tons of urea which has been
distributed to farmer cooperatives and CACB branch stores. The latter quantity of fertilizer will be
retailed at market price (e.g., YR1,650 per 50 kg sack, Dec. 1995). The proceeds of the sales will
be retained in a special account in CACB for future purchases. A second contract for the purchase



- 32 -
of 1,000 tons of NPK has been cancelled since the contractor was unable to ship the fertilizer before
the credit closure date. The recovery of full CIF costs plus transport for the 6,000 tons of urea has
been a welcome sign of full cost recovery for inputs; the next stage should be a closer involvement
of the private sector.
(iii) Irrigation Development
20.        The SAR main objectives of the component were to improve water management
efficiency through the establishment of irrigation demonstration farms; investigate and study about
20 sites for location and construction of recharge dams, and a pilot scheme for the construction of
recharge dams/spate breakers to conserve flood flows for irrigation. The latter could form the basis
of an expanded program to be imnplemented during future phases of project funding. The component
is supported partly by a UNDP grant for technical assistance to support conducting the studies and
partly by IDA credit for implementation of gauging stations and construction of the recharge dams.
21.        The achievements under this component included the successful completion of eight
demonstration farms; the installation of water tanks and drip irrigation equipment and the adoption
of the concept of drip irrigation by the private sector with over 1,000 ha of mangoes planted by
about 20 farmers. The UNDP financed activities have been delayed and although the analytical
studies have been completed, the detailed design of three multipurpose dams are still being finalized
and it will not be possible to implement any of these dams using the IDA credit. The allocation of
SDR 710,000 has, therefore, been cancelled from the program. The UNDP funded studies would,
however, be useful should a follow-up phase to the project be approved and implemented. The
overall achievement under the component has been satisfactory.
(iv) Operation and Maintenance Service (O&M)
22.        The SAR main objectives for the component were to provide funds for operation and
maintenance of project facilities and infrastructure. Local staff were to be organized, trained and
provided with the means to undertake O&M functions. In addition, foreign training would be
provided to local staff of the Mareb dam to enable them to safely operate the dam. A workshop
would be equipped at Amran and equipment and machinery to be supplied for other locations. Three
mobile workshops would be fielded, one at each of the governorate headquarters.
23.        The achievement under the component has been substantial. One O&M centre has been
constructed at Dheibeen and SSHARDA is planning to build a further two centers. Mobile
workshops, machinery and equipment have been provided and an expatriate expert has trained the
staff and supervised O&M operations. The O&M component for the Mareb dam has been completed.
(v) Establishment of Permanent Headquarters for NORDA (SSHARDA)
24.        In response to the government decision to create a semi-autonomous Northern Regional
Development Authority (NORDA/SSHARDA), the project was to provide assistance for the
establishment of permanent headquarters at Amran. The headquarters would include construction of
buildings (offices, warehouse, workshop and housing) and provision of vehicles. Additional offices
would be constructed at Sana'a, Saadah and Hajjah, and residencies built at Sana'a and Hajjah. The
design and bidding documents would be prepared using UNDP finance.
25.        Achievements under this component have been unsatisfactory. Although the bidding
documents were cleared by the IDA review mission of October 1993 and bids were received by
March 1994, delays in reaching a decision prevented the contract being awarded and eventually a
decision was taken to develop the complex in two phases. However, by the time of the July 1995
review mission, no decision had been reached to award even the scaled down first phase and the IDA



- 33 -
mission agreed with the SSHARDA request to build a block centre as a temporary office. This
decision was not implemented due to the cancellation of US$4 million from the IDA credit, which
left no funds available. SSHARDA thus continues to rent accommodation in Amran. The delay in
the construction of the Headquarters should enable the concept of a regional headquarters to be re-
thought and the result to be incorporated into a possible second phase.
(vi) Technical Assistance and Training
26.         This component was planned to provide support to the local staff through recruitment
of 68 staff years of technical assistance (TA) and local staff training. The TA was designed to cover
management, agricultural extension, veterinary services, rural development for women, engineering,
irrigation, and O&M. It was supposed to be phased out after four to five years and replaced by
national counterparts. Training would consist of on-the-job counterpart training provided by the TA
experts, local courses and foreign training. The TA was broken down into: (i) agriculture related (40
years) which included a women's program specialist; (ii) engineering (11 years); and (iii) consultant
engineers and short-term experts (17 years) with the latter funded by UNDP.
27.        The project recruited 36.3 staffyears under (i) and (ii) or 71 % of the SAR target, whilst
under the UNDP grant finance, a total of US$3 million was expended in addition to 7.7 months of
short-term TA. The UNDP component has covered recruitment of consultants for the design of the
SSHARDA headquarters. Overall the component has satisfactorily achieved 80% of the SAR target.
In addition, the TA and training programs have positively contributed to the development of the
management and technical capability of SSHARDA staff and has left an established team who, with
some additional specialized inputs, could implement a second phase project. However, insufficient
emphasis was placed on the setting up of effective field and M&E programs to monitor, in particular,
the extension and irrigation components. The late recruitment of the UNDP financed consultancy in
irrigation design left insufficient time for implementation of detailed design. The latter work,
however, would be useful should a follow-up phase be implemented.
Project Management
28.         Project management faced many constraints. At appraisal GOY had taken legislative
action to establish a Northern Regional Development Authority (NORDA) which developed into
SSHARDA. The institutional and managerial arrangements were, therefore, a new initiative.
Moreover, SSHARDA had to manage and implement the project in an area which extended to around
38,000 km2, or almost a fifth of the country, often of rugged terrain, tribal, lacking in infrastructure
and without adequate resources of resident staff. Added to these considerable difficulties,
management also suffered from other external factors, in particular the Gulf war, the internal civil
disturbances, election campaigns and the fall in value of the Yemeni Rial faced by the country as a
whole (para. 36). Recruitment of staff and TA personnel has, therefore, been difficult throughout
the life of the project. Being a new institution and one with regional authority status, rather than a
simple project management unit, also appears to have resulted in delays in procurement operations
and release of funds as SSHARDA staff developed and operated procedures in conformity with
government regulations. These problems were in turn compounded by late and inadequate release
of government recurrent budget, and cumbersome arrangements for review and authorization of
contracts by MAWR, MPD and the High Tender Board. Despite these difficulties SSHARDA's
management expertise and performance has been effective and further improved over the project
period. Continuity of SSHARDA's senior management during implementation was satisfactory; and
given adequate operating budget, SSHARDA would be in a better position to pursue it's development
objectives even more successfully in the future.



- 34 -
Supervision and Review Missions
29.         A sufficient number of the IDA supervision missions was fielded in response to
different needs at various stages of project implementation. In addition, a thorough IDA mid-term
review mission was fielded in 1992, and another comprehensive mid-term review of the UNDP
component was carried out in 1993. Most missions incorporated well balanced specialized staff skills;
and worked in close collaboration with the national management team.
30.         There was continuity among missions in terms of follow-up in relation to critical issues,
recommendations and plans of action. Mission reporting was comprehensive and provided rigorous
analysis of project progress and difficulties, recognized important issues and constraints and proposed
pragmatic solutions. The national team has made a positive and constructive contribution to the
supervision and review missions, while the IDA staff were cognizant of the national political,
economic and social conditions in the country and their impact on project implementation.
Overall Project Impact
31.        As designed the project was over optimistic regarding what could be achieved over
a seven year implementation period, given the limitations of the project area. Delayed project start-up
and factors external to the project which affected the whole of Yemen have further constrained the
project's performance and impact. Achievement in civil works construction has been less than
anticipated at appraisal. However, success in institutional strengthening, in increasing both staff
numbers and competence, has been considerable. Numbers of staff trained, extension agents and
SMS fielded and farmers covered by extension generally equalled or exceeded the appraisal
expectations. The exception has been RDW activities, which have developed slowly due to socio-
economic factors in the Region. Extension services have successfully reached the SAR planned target
of 34,000 ha. However, the main emphasis in agricultural extension has been on irrigated areas and
in particular on introduction of fruit and vegetables into the farming system. A main reason for this
emphasis appears to be the lack of relevant extension messages for adoption by farmers in the rainfed
areas. Although the strategy of concentrating on the higher potential irrigated areas is well
understood, considerations of overall development and equity objectives require more emphasis to
be given to rainfed farming development in the future. The immediate impact appears to have
benefited the better-off farmers and the effects on poverty alleviation in the short and medium term
may have been limited.
Borrower and IDA Performance
Project Design
32.        The overall project aims, scope and structure were well designed and in line with
national development objectives and priorities. With the benefit of hindsight, however, the design
appears to have been over-optimistic regarding project size, e.g., having a large number of
components (6), sub-components (16) and covering a wide geographical area (32,000 km2 ha) over
three governorates; and the proportion of total costs to have been met by GOY (47% of total project
costs). Project preparation and appraisal should also have clarified responsibility for meeting the local
cost component of the proposed CACB buildings and whether funds for this purpose were to be
provided by GOY or CACB, as well as giving more emphasis to encouragement of private sector
participation, in particular for nurseries and animal health services.
Flow of Funds
33.         Reimbursement of expenditures by IDA was satisfactory. However, low, inadequate
and delayed release of government recurrent funds has been a continuing problem, particularly in



- 35 -
the later years of the project. Shortage of funds and delays in authorization of expenditures slowed
implementation. Difficulties have also arise as a result of the devaluation of the Yemeni Rial. The
revolving fund established by CACB for use in importing additional fertilizer has never operated due
to GOY reluctance to exchange the local currency at the official exchange rate. Proposals by
SSHARDA to allow nurseries to operate revolving funds and apply the proceeds from sale of
seedlings to finance nursery operating costs did not meet with government approval; and funds
received from sale of seedlings were returned to the treasury. Due to the appreciation of the SDR
and US$ against the Yemeni Rial, funding of foreign exchange costs was more than adequate and
proved to be in excess of the project's absorptive capacity, given the conditions prevailing during
implementation. Accordingly, US$4 million of the IDA credit was cancelled in May 1995. Operation
of the project's Special Account was generally satisfactory throughout implementation.
Procedures
34.        Government procedures for procurement involved review and authorization at a number
of levels by MAWR, MPD and the High Tender Committee. These procedures frequently resulted
in delays and prevented timely project implementation. World Bank's procedures were conducive to
project implementation. Initially project implementation benefited from the WB Project Preparation
Facility (PPF); and requests for reimbursement were generally submitted in a timely manner.
Coordination and Sequencing
35.        SSHARDA's management and coordination of the project has been satisfactory. The
Authority, however, should be granted further autonomy to reduce over centralization, simplify
administrative and implementation procedures and enhance regional decision making. The
Government coordination of IDA and UNDP components was successful in the harmonization of
project activities and in ensuring continuity of UNDP financial support to the project.
D. External Factors Affecting the Project
36.        The main external factors that represented substantial challenges to project
implementation included:
i      The Gulf war which contributed to a national slowing down of economic
activities and regional disruptions;
*      The resettlement and creation of new employment opportunities required for
the Yemeni workers returning unexpectedly from neighboring oil-exporting
countries following the Gulf war;
*      The first national elections held in April 1993 which diverted project staff to
assist with election duties rather than carrying out project activities;
*      The reduction in the purchasing power of the Yemeni Rial due to rapidly
increasing inflation rates eventually leading to currency devaluations;
*      The delays caused by the civil disturbances; and
*      The long period of drought during the early years of project implementation.



- 36 -
E. Future Operations, Sustainability and Lessons Learned
Future Operations and Sustainability
37.         A main objective of the project, envisaged in the SAR, was to achieve a balanced
regional agricultural development in the country through project interventions in the northern
governorates which had not benefitted from earlier government efforts. The project implementation
authority (SSHARDA) has, therefore, been facing the challenge of improving the pre-project
debilitated state of the rural and agricultural sector in the region as well as the past years of socio-
economic and political disturbances experienced by the country in general and the project area in
particular. Thus, while the project achievements have generally been satisfactory, its future
operations and sustainability present a major challenge to SSHARDA.
38.         To meet this challenge, the following conditions were proposed by MAWR and
SSHARDA and discussed with the WB supervision missions and the ICR mission: (i) ensuring
regular and adequate flow of counterpart funding for future operations and project sustainability. This
condition could be realized through increasing project cost recovery by allowing SSHARDA to retain
part of project revenues, establishing of revolving funds for selected components and encouraging
a greater role for the private sector in future project operations; (ii) granting SSHARDA more
autonomy in fulfilling its mandate, yet maintaining effective technical linkages with concerned
ministries and institutions; (iii) supporting further adaptive research in the region and strengthening
the two-way relationship between research and extension; (iv) formulating and adopting a future plan
of operations that attaches high priority to small farmers and focusses on such activities as supporting
water supply schemes, constructing multipurpose small dams and feeder roads, monitoring of water
resources, improving rainfed agriculture, RDW, and agricultural credit; and (v) introducing a
workable mechanism to benefit from the UNDP grant financed TA studies and the parallel Arab
Fund loan in agricultural investment for enhancing rural water supply in the region.
39.         To enable SSHARDA to fulfil these conditions for project sustainability, there is a need
for a follow-up project especially designed to achieve this target. As proposed in the latest WB's
supervision mission (Dec. 1995), the follow-up project could focus on one or more of the following
activities: (i) support the activities established under the project; and in particular areas of the now
closed Central Highlands project (which have reverted to SSHARDA's administration) as well as
other poverty alleviating activities; (ii) extend infrastructure and services to an additional 160,000 ha
of areas of the three governorates not previously covered; (iii) improve agricultural services in Al-
Mahwit Governorate; (iv) construct small village water supply schemes which cannot be covered by
NAWASA or the Rural Water Supply Authority in addition to rehabilitation and maintenance of
existing schemes; (v) implement viable multi-purpose small dams studied under the current project;
(vi) establish a project unit for monitoring of water resources and meteorological data; (vii) improve
rainfed agriculture, rangeland management, animal husbandry and terracing in agriculture; and
(viii) construct agricultural feeder roads to enable areas of potential agricultural production to have
access to the national roads network. These proposals are being considered by GOY and, if
implemented, would significantly increase the sustainability of the current project.
Lessons Learned
40.         The following are the main lessons learned:
*       For a realistic, relevant and practical design and implementation of a regional
agricultural development project, a full and active national participation in the
entire project cycle is essential.



- 37 -
*      To improve the effectiveness of project management, the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) should be fully utilized in briefing project management at an
earlier stage of implementation on the WB procurement procedures, project
approach, indicators and ways and means to achieve efficient implementation.
*      Effective management of projects that include major institution building and
specific socio-economic objectives (e.g., development of a disadvantaged
region), necessitates the development and application of qualitative indicators
to assess achievement of these objectives, rather than relying solely on
delivery of project inputs.
*      Management of projects which aim  at sustainable regional agricultural
development require an effective monitoring and evaluation system that
incorporates environmental protection and natural resource conservation
indicators. Such a system would not only review physical achievements, but
also assess the environmental and resource conservation impact of the project.
*      Extension can only be successful if it can offer sound technical support to
farmers. This can only be achieved if strong links are forged between
research and extension and adequate resources are provide for research
institutions to provide their contributions in a timely manner.
To be effective, the research program must clearly identify priority areas and
develop an appropriate research strategy and field program, particularly in
regard to rainfed farming in northern highland areas.
*      The strong social issues concerning the role of women in rural development
in the Northern Region calls for the adoption of a modest and slow approach
over a long time frame. Emphasis should be placed on addressing the social
and cultural constraints, which prevent a direct approach, and impact on the
important role played by women.
*      The large number of sub-components (16) and the wide geographical coverage
in a region fraught with social and economic difficulties made implementation
and supervision an extremely difficult task. Design of projects to be
implemented in areas of particular difficulty should be simplified to the full
extent possible, and, where feasible, sites and activities should be grouped in
order to facilitate implementation and supervision.
F. Follow-Up
41.         This Aide-Memoire is a revised version that incorporates comments and suggestions
for amendment presented during discussion at the mission's wrap-up meeting held in Sana'a on
9.12.95. SSHARDA has prepared a draft ICR, viewing the implementation experience from the
borrower's perspective. Since the document is less than ten pages, it is incorporated as Appendix B
to this report, in accordance with the WB guidelines.



- 38 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1886-YAR)
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
APPENDIX B



- 39 -
APPENDIX B
Summary of Implementation Completion Report
A. Introduction
1.           The Government of the Republic of Yemen (formerly Yemen Arab Republic) has
approached the International Development Association IDA to help financing an agricultural
development project in the 3 northern Governorates of the country (Sana'a, Saadah and Hajjah)
referred to as the northern region. The Project originated as the Northern Regional Agricultural
Development Project (NORADEP), Credit 1886 (YAR) cofinanced with the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and the Government. It became effective on July 13, 1989 - with
6 years implementation period, albeit being appraised on February 19, 1988. The Project financial
plan is divided between IDA (Cr. 1886) US$17.6 million (44.6%), UNDP, grant US$3.4 million
(8.6%) and the Government US$ equivalent 18.4 million (46.7%). IDA has cancelled US$4 million
following the recommendations of the Country Portfolio Performance Review agreed upon by IDA
and GOY in May, 1995. UNDP grant has disbursed about US$3 million.
B. Objectives
2.           Main objectives of the Project are (1) increasing agricultural productivity and farmers
income by means of (a) improving agricultural services; (b) better management of land and water
resources and manpower; and (c) improved irrigation efficiency and water use (2) improving the
health nutrition standards of rural families. The Project was also to meet the Government objective
to accelerate development of the northern region because of socio-political considerations and for
ensuring more balanced regional development in the country.
C. Project Components
3.           The Project included the following components;
(a)   Agricultural/Extension Services: Agricultural extension services that consist
of (a) construction of (5) block centers, (39) extension centers, (4)
demonstration farms and training and information centre; (b) establishing of
nucleus research station at Albaun; (c) establishment and upgrading of (5)
horticulture and coffee nurseries; (d) provision of veterinary services; (e)
provision of equipments, vehicles, motorcycles and spare parts.
(b)   Agricultural Credit and Farm Inputs: A program by CACB to provide (a)
medium-term loans for 900 farmers; (b) import fertilizers and agricultural
pesticides for sale in Project area; (c) develop appropriate procedures for loan
evaluation and cooperate with extension staff to improve credit activities.
(c)   Irrigation Development:: Program of consultancy to develop water resources
in the area designed to (a) identify location for and construction of recharge
dams; (b) to investigate feasibility of and prepare preliminary designs and cost
estimates for further expansion of water resources management, check dams
and wadi improvement.
(d)   SSHARDA  Headquarters, Offices and O&M: Establishing regional
structure for agricultural development consisting of (a) construction of



- 40 -
SSHARDA headquarters at Amran and 3 sub-regional offices at Sana'a,
Saadah and Hajjah; (b) establishment of O&M unit and provision of
equipments, furniture, vehicles and spare parts.
(e)   Technical Assistance and Training: Provision of technical assistance and
training consisting of (a) technical assistance in Project related activities; (b)
local and overseas training for Project staff and overseas training in O&M for
Mareb Dam staff.
D. Project Implementation
4.           SSHARDA became responsible for implementing NORADEP (except Part C - loans
and inputs delegated to CACB). The 3 directorates of agriculture in the 3 Governorates were merged
within SSHARDA. The authority is under the supervision of H.E. the Minister of Agriculture and
Water Resources.
5.           Management. The organization of SSHARDA consists of an excellent Chairman,
board of directors, general director (5 up to present) and 55 senior staff administrating the following
departments: Agriculture Extension and Training (3 sections), Agricultural Affairs and Animal
Resources (4 sections), Engineering and Maintenance (5 sections), Finance (4 sections) and
Administration (4 sections).
6.           Project Start-up. SSHARDA made good start by appointing new staff, renting
premises for HQ, housing block and extension centers, starting pre-service training, recruiting key
TA, purchasing a number of vehicles, designing building and bidding documents, developing good
cooperation and coordination with AREA, LCCD and CACB and a working program of extension
was in implementation.
Project Achievements
SAR and Physical Targets
7.           Physical targets and financial allocations prescribed in the DCA were not subjected
to major revisions. The achievements of NORADEP compared to SAR are presented in Table 1.
Achievements are excellent except for the delay of the engineering components.
8.           NORADEP & SSHARDA National Staff. The Project staffing developed well
according to SAR. The 35 SMS and 50 EA reached actual employment of 43 and 88 (123 - 176%
achievement). SSHARDA employed quite a number of new graduates. Currently it employs 724 staff
(including workers and guards), 148 of them are mainly young graduates.
9.           Technical Assistance. IDA financed TA (51/SY) reached 36 SY (71% using 45%
of finance plan). UNDP used 100% of TA engineering. TA for NORADEP was insufficient.
10.         Local and Overseas Training. The training program of the Project was excellent.
Pre-service training of EA (63), in service SMS (35) and overseas training (178 nmm) have achieved
112% and 202% respectively.
11.          Extension Activities.  The extension activities proceeded well with Project
implementation and operated from 6 BC and 60 EC supported by SMS from sub-regional and HQ
offices. The cultivated area covered reached 34,000 ha (100%) and farmers contacted (100%). Table
2 presents activities along years and Table 1 presents percentages of achievements. The extension
needs more facilities and resources.



- 41 -
12.         Nurseries and Seedling Production. SSHARDA is manning (9) nurseries (150%)
and producing a variable numbers of good quality seedlings representing 65-95% of the SAR
projection of 700,000 (Table 3). Total seedling production has reached 3447383 during Project
implementation. Distribution of seedlings is far below production. Production and distribution of
seedlings needs to be monitored periodically.
13.         Women Development. The modest approach for WD did not proceed well. The
department is staffed by 5 female agents and a head graduate. They have had a heavy training. They
worked in 10 villages with about 80 rural women each year. The program needs to be supported by
more staff and facilities, WD centers and TA.



- 42 -
Table 1. Physical Progress of NORADEP (during 1989-1995) Compared to Appraised Activities
Activities                Unit            Appraised            Revised         Achieved       Achievement
(1)             (2)             (2/1)
a. Agriculture                                  i                                         _     _ _
Operated Block Centre                   No.                       5               6               6              120%
Operated Ext. Centre                    No.                      48              48              60              125%
Extension Agents                        No.                      50              50              88              176%
SMS                                     No.                      35              35              43              123%
Farmers contacted (Year 10)                                   9,200           9,200           13,309             145%
Farmers adopting (Year 10)                                    9,200           9,200            9,316             100%
Field demonstrations (0.1 - 2 ha) EA    No.                   1,320           1,320            1,958             145%
Other demonstr. (EA)                    No.                    936              936            1,400            491%
Continuing field demonstrations/SMS     No.                      92              92                -              0%
Extension leaflets                      No.                                       -              33              100%
Crop area covered                        ha                  34,380          34,380           34,000              99%
Nurseries                               No.                       6               9               9              150%
Seedlings produced from nurseries (fruit  No.               700,000         700,000         665,476              95%
& coffee)
b. CACB                              _           _                                        _
Loan beneficiaries                      No.                     900             900            1,116             124%
Purchase of fertilizers                 Ton                  10,000          10,000           10,000             100%
Purchase of agric. pesticides           Ton                      50              50              43               86%
c. Training
Pre-service EA                          No.                     56               56              63              112%
In-service SMS                          No.                      35              35             362            1,034%
Overseas training                       MIM                     178             178             359             202%
d. Engineering                        ._i
Civil works                              m2                     650           1,760               0                0%
SSHARDA's HQ office
SSHARDA's residence                      m2                   2,040           2,816               0                0%
Workshop-Amran                           m2                     300             300               0               0%
Block centers (5x732 m2)                 ml                   3,660           4,459            2,461              46%
Ext. center (39x105 m2)                  m2                   4,095           4,095            3,255             79%
Training & inf. center          <                               530             530               0                0%
Support to Sana'a office                 m2                     150               0                -
Support to Saadah off. & res.            m2                    650              672             672              100%
Support to Hajjah off. & res.            MI2                   650              450               0                0%
Research staff Tes. (7x150 n2)           m2                   1,050             450               0                0%
CACB field offices (2x300 m2)            m2                    600              600               0                0%
Total Covered Area                   _ n_                    14,375          16,132            6,388             40%



- 43 -
Irrigation Improvement
I. Water mg. plan                                       Studies                            Completed           100%
2. Mult. pur. dams                                      Studies                            Completed           100%
,, . 1                                              Construction                            NC                 0%
3. Wadi dev.                                            Studies                -           Completed           100%
4. Dem. farms                                          (4) Studies            (8)          Completed           100%
"   .                                           Equip. inst.             -          Completed            80%
5. Hyd. met. station                                 Stud. Equ.-inst.                      Completed           100%
6. O&M                                                 Guideline                              NC                 0%
CW-Mac. equip.                        Completed            100%
Table 2. Data of Different Extension Activities
Activities              1989      1990      1991       1992      1993       1994       1995       Total
Operating block centers                6        6           6         6          6          6        6             6
Operating extension centers           35       39          45        48         55         55       60           60
Pilot farmers                        119       180        211       283        237        224       185        1,439
Contact farmers                     1,190    1,800      2,083     2,497      2,306      2,179    1,812        13,867
Farmers' visits '                  4,385    7,586      16,657    15,336    14,612       10,799    8,724       78,099
Extension meetings                   428       125        498       698        691        556      559         3,555
Farmers attending meetings         3,346    1,800       5,919     9,401      7,345      6,327    5,823        39,961
Extension evenings '                    -        -          -          -         -           -        -           38
Demonstration fields: Cereals         80      108         180       223        176        118       42          926
Potato & Vegetables                   97       89         159       157        126        100       71          799
Others                                16         -         25        14         18          5         8           86
Total Demon. Fields                  193      196         364       394        320        223      121         1,811
Pilot orchards                        28       20          43        46         25         29       21          212
Field days                            50       155        386       387       404         398      307         2,087
Farmers attending field days         418    1,392       4,087     4,670      4,774      3,805    2,744        21,890
Extension messages "                  43       86         189       221        173        112       58          221
Demonstration methods                   -     649         982      1,140       936        893      368         4,968
Demonstration results                         134         323       389        320        296       142        1,604
Extension leaflets                              4           8         8          8          5         -           33
Agric. mechan. centers                           -          -          -         -          7        8             8
Area (ha) served by mechan.                      -          -         -          -       1,864     541         2,405
Area (ha) protected against pests   1,520    2,428       2,294     4,361      1,593      1,523      882        14,601
3' Visitors to block and extension centers seeking advice, recommnendations and/or services.
hf Slide projections followed by discussions.
f Fortnight set of recommendations to farmers groups.



- 44 -
Table 3. Total production of seedlings from different nurseries during 1991, 1995
Nurseries                     -_                                                     l995
Fruits    Coffee   Aff. & Orn.     Total        Fruits    Coffee   Aff. & Orn.    Total
Al Baun                     42,660                 6,000         48,660      33,162                  -        33,162
Al Batana                    32,502               41,728         74,230      44,068                 7,350     51,418
Al Hatarish & Rouda         145,887        -                     145,887     59,108   ;              -        59,108
Beir Al Shaef                    -               121,799         121,799       -                   31,590     31,590
Total Sana'a                221,049              169,527         290,576    136,338         -      38,940    175,278
Dhumeid & Al Maqash (Saadah)  122,100    20,250   27,750         170,110    213,707       -        58,031    271,738
Bani Qeis & Maasara (Hajiah)  14,043    82,347     8,400         104,790      9,560    31,200           -     40,760
Total NORADEP               357,202    102,597    205,677       665,476    359,605    31,200      96,9716    487,776
14.             Regional Veterinary Services. This sub-component operates from block centers and
two sub-regional offices with assistance from the Vet. Service Project. The services provided during
Project implementation has reached number of (251,245) and (153,703) for rinder pest and sheep
pox free vaccinations respectively in addition to (454,958) different treatments.
15.             Agricultural Research at Al Baun.  NORADEP assisted establishing a research
station at Al Baun by offering (2) houses, (5) vehicles, training to the staff.
16.             The research staff proceeded well: 4 Ph.D., 8 MSc., 7 BSc. far beyond SAR.
Research programs are being implemented. The station need TA, more training, more facilities and
to concentrate on adaptive research and needs of stress conditions. The research extension linkages
are satisfactory. Periodical meetings are held between the two groups to discuss research and
extension yearly programs, feed and feedback of information, farmers needs, agricultural constraints,
etc.
17.             Purchase of Agricultural Fertilizers.  CACB  has provided  10,000 m  tons of
fertilizers (100%) and 43 tons of pesticides are expected by january 1996 (86%). Availability and
accessibility of fertilizers and tighten control functions need to be periodically monitored. As the
recent importations will be retailed at market price (YRL1,650 for 50 kg bag), proceeds of the sales
should be returned to Special Account of the Revolving Fund in hard currency (arrangements with
Central Bank) to insure availability of sufficient foreign funds for continuous importation of
agricultural inputs.
18.             CACB Sub-loans. CACB provided 1,116 medium-term sub-loans (125%), 65%  of
its finance is IDA contribution. Loans items are: irrigation schemes (needs critical monitoring in
Sana'a and Saadah), horticulture, land reclamation, apiary, agricultural mechanization.
Engineering Activities.
19.             Civil Work.  Three block centers were constructed (50%), other 2 has 5-20%
achievement but work stopped, 28 extension centers from 39 (72%) have been constructed (100%)
another 5 (from 5 to 80%).Residence and offices of Saadah are 100% completed (see also Table 1).
Other works HQ, workshop, training centre, Sana'a and Hajah offices and residence, AREA
residence and CACB offices, have not been constructed due to delays, constraints of local funds
and/or the premature cancelling of US$4 million from IDA Credit.



- 45 -
20.             Irrigation Components (UNDP grant YEM/87/015). The Project faced tremendous
delays and the DHV Consultants contract (under UNDP/OPSTA) was extended twice. The
constraints were UNDP, OPF, DHV and SSHARDA effect. The implementation of components are
as follows:
(a)      Well inventory: Study completed except one site.
(b)      Multi-purpose dams: Study completed including detailed study of 3 dams.
Final report is expected by mid-December, 1995. Eventually dams cannot be
constructed.
(c)      Demonstration farms: The studies are completed albeit delayed. Installation of
equipments is in final stage.
(d)      Hydrological and Meteorological Stations: Studies, purchase of equipments
and installations are completed.
(e)      O&M: The DHV  contributed nothing. NORADEP provided O&M  centre,
mechanization centers, machinery, equipments and mobile workshop. The
Project assisted O&M of March dam (training and vehicles).
Covenants
21.           Except for a few  cases-sufficient local funds, revolving fund for importation of
agricultural inputs (US$3.1 million), revolving fund for nurseries and CACB assignment of Credit
officers to BC-all other covenants were fulfilled.
Disbursement
22.           Disbursement from  IDA Credit is as follows (US$'000):
Year       88/89    11990    1991     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996     Total
SAR estimation    300    4,000    4,500    3,000    2,000     1,600     1,000      200    17,600
Act. distribution    674    1,294    2,035    3,196  2,124    1,044  |  2,916       -     13,183
Act/ SAR%       225       32       45      107       106        65       282        -75
Disbursement was low in 1990 and 1991, 1996.
23.           Disbursement from  IDA Credit according to Categories
The disbursement from IDA Credit according to categories is as follows (US$ million):
Category       SAR    Actual  Actual/SAR       Category        SAR      Actual   Actual/SAR
(1) Civil work        4.1     1.8       44%    (5) TA & Train.        3.0      2.1        70%
(2) Goods             3.9     4.8      123%   (6) PPF Adv.            0.4      0.3        75%
|(3) Agric. inputs     3.0     2.3      77%    Unallocated             1.0       -
(4) Agric. Cred.      2.2      1.9      86%    Total                  17.6     13.2       75%



- 46 -
24.            Total Project disbursement according to categories and years is presented in Table
(4). The Project has disbursed about US$32.2 millions. There is about US$0.5 million
commitments (IDA Credit) and about US$0.4 million not disbursed from UNDP grant in
addition to the US$4 million cancelled from IDA Credit.
Table 4. Disbursement of NORADEP (in US$000) according to Categories and Years a/
Category          88/89       1990       1991        1992       1993       1994       1955 "'     Total
(1) Civil work
|   IDA                41        431         247         276        282         423          88      1,788
|   Gov.                50        585         336         610       358          694         116     2,749
Sub-total              91      1,016        583          886       640        1,117        204      4,537
(2) Veh., Equip., Mach.
I .DA                 170         152        717        1,477     1,242         212         882      4,853
L   Gov.              443        557         204         628      1,138         795         314      4,079
Sub-total            613         709        921        2,105     2,380        1,007      1,196      8,932
(3) Agric. Inputs IDA      -           -          -         782          -           -       1,500     2,282
(4) Subloans
. IDA                            308         880         471        125         128           -      1,912
. CACB                  -         166        473         254         66          69           -      1,028
(5) TA
* IDA                 198        403         191         190        113          99          40      1,237
. Over training IDA      -          -          -            -       362         182         306       851
. Local Stud. Gov.       -          -          -            -       (45)>'       71           5   76+45Y |
Sub-total             198         403        191          190   75+(45)         352         351 2, 64+(45)1|
UNDP Eng. Cons.           77        948         849         462       310          164        200      3,011
Gov.                    -          -        301          164       273          311          -      1,049
Sub-total              77         948      1,150         626        583         475         200      4,060
Refunding PPF-IDA        265           -          -           -          -           -           -       265
Recur. Oper. C. Gov.     939       1,106      1,010        1,431     1,203         985       224 "     6,898
TOTAL                  2,183       4,656      5,208       6,745      5,517       4,133       3,675    32,122
SSHARDA Finance Department.
h/ Disbursed for local studies.
d Not completed.
25.            Finally, it could be reported that the agricultural extension activities of NORADEP is
considered very satisfactory and all targets were reached.
26.            The engineering component was not fully realized due to external conditions affecting
implementation (Gulf war, internal crises, high inflation rates, long procedures needed for schemes
approval, TA).
27.             NORADEP  should have been extended for one more year instead of cancelling US$4
million to allow implementing the needed engineering civil works.
28.            For the sustainability of activities under SSHARDA, a second phase of NORADEP is
urgently needed with substantial effective TA, training and local fundings.



4 47 -
REPUBUC OF YEMEN                                                                 i 
MINISTRY OF AGRICLTURE & WATER RESOURCES                                  1aUW ji AJ;   4&JIJl  ljjW
AGRICULTURAL L & RURAL DEVELOPNIENT                      ~,  1,g~.J   .I  lgI
AUTHORITY
Sana'a Saddah - Hajjah                                               a       sb k6  eiL
HIEAD QUART:RS OFFICE                                                         I-I ;_ItVl
AMRAN
R ef. N o . ...... ..  ... ... ...   ...                                       ... ..   .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . . ...1
Date       .12/09/1996                                                          ....... . -  .............  .. ..... . . ..
To            Mr. Saleh Darghouth
Division Chief,
Natural Resources, Water & Environment Division,
Middle East, MENA Region,
The World Bank, Washington D.C. 20433
United States of America
Subject:      Implementation Completion Report (ICR) NORADEP
under IDA Credit 1886-YEM
Dear Mr. Darghouth,
After reviwing the Final Draft of NORADEP ICR, please be informed that we are very
satisfied with the contents of the report and the professional manner of its formulation.
However, we have the following points for amendment:-
Title
Please delete " YAR " and insert " YEM"
Preface
Para 3. Line 7 after" view " please add " assisted by Dr. Mazhar M. Fawzi
Evaluation Summary
Para 9. Line 7 after " not completed " Plcase add " because of cancellation an amount of USD
4M from the IDA Credit " And after " located at " Please delete Al Boun and insert El-Ira.
Para 10. Line 4 after " the training " Please delete 10. and insert " 20 ".
Para 13. Line 4 after " managoes " Please insert " Erection of 20 meterological stations and 3
out of 4 wadi gauge net-works has been completed ".
Similar amendments to be made in other chapters of the report where applicable.
With best regards.
Sincer4t'yi2unr~'         .&L
M2rhazi Nasscr Mohamcd  t        ,;,\ *
Chairman of SSHARDA  
Copy to:      Mr. Nagi Abu Hatcm                                      - .  ;     ?
World Bank Mission - Sana'aa
.K.  0 L S 6



- 48 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 1886-YAR)
Notes on Financial and Economic Analysis
APPENDIX C



- 49 -
APPENDIX C
NOTES ON FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. CROP BUDGETS AND FARM MODELS
Introduction
1.           The SAR estimated that as a result of the project, and through project year six, some
6,600 farm units covering 34,380 ha would start to receive assistance from the new regional
extension service.
2.           To calculate benefits, the SAR further identified four categories of farms-based on
their location, which would either benefit from extension efforts only or from a combination of
extension and irrigation improvement. The latter was expected to lead to incremental plantings of
fruit trees and coffee. The breakdown of these beneficiaries was estimated as follows:
Farm Size       Farms        TOTAL
Location            Benefit                                      AREA
ha         number           ha
Intermontane Plain   Extension only        3.0          1,360           4,080
Intermontane Plain   Ext. + irrig. dev.    3.0            240             720
Highland Wadi      Extension only          2.0          1,480           2,960
Highland Wadi      Ext. + irrig. dev.      2.0            320             640
Lowlands           Extension only         12.0          1,800          21,600
Lowlands           Extension + irrig.     12.0            250           3,000
dev.
Highland Terraces   Extension only         1.2            650             780
Highland Terraces   Extension + irrig.     1.2            500             600
dev.
ITOTAL                                                  6,600           34,380~



- 50 -
3.            The cropping patterns of the four models contained in the SAR were as follows:
Crop                 Model 1  [   Model 2   |   Model 3   |  Model 4
. ............................ ha ....................l
Sorghum - grain                      2.0            1.0            6.0            0.8
Sorghum - Ratoon - Fodder             1.0          0.4             3.0             -
Alfalfa                              0.1           0.1             -
Cereals                               -            0.3             -              0.4
Vegetables                           0.3           0.1             2.0            0.2
Tobacco                               -             -             0.5                    l
Apple                                0.1           0.05            -              0.05
Grape                                0.1           0.05            -               -
Papaya                                -             -              1.0             -
Coffee                                              -              -              0.05
(Fallow)                             (0.4)         (0.4)          (2.5)           (-)
TOTAL                                3.0           2.0            12.0            1.2
4.            The actual cultivated areas reached by SSHARDA project activities (according to
sample measurements carried out during 1995) amounted to 34,000 ha (98% of SAR estimates)
and had the following crop mix:
Crop             |Areal
..............h     ............
Cereals                                24,000
Pulses                                   1,500
Vegetables                               5,000
Sesame                                    300
Alfalfa                                   600
Coffee                                    400
Fruits                                  2,200
TOTAL                                  34,000
5.            The breakdown of these cultivated areas according to location and farm size was not
available. Similarly, the impact of the various project activities on these cropped areas was not
quantified. However, benefits were expected to accrue to farmers through the establishment and
strengthening of agricultural support services, introduction of new technology, improvements in



- 51 -
design and construction of recharge dams, improved water conveyance efficiency and increased
availability of crop inputs. The main emphasis in agricultural extension has been on irrigated areas
and in particular on improvements to fruit and vegetable production. Improved water conveyance
efficiency has been demonstrated on private and government farms, including sprinkler and drip
irrigation. Expansion of planted areas of fruit trees and coffee has been supported by increased
production of seedlings at the government nurseries. No change is evident in the without- and with-
project annual cropping patterns. The nurseries have produced about 665,000 seedlings per annum
(Table 5 - main report). Details of field plantings by variety and location were not available, but it
is estimated that the total of approximately 3.5 million plants produced would be sufficient to plant
some 2,500 ha assuming a 75% survival rate.
Cropping Pattern and Yield
6.           Based on the data supplied by SSHARDA staff concerning cultivated areas, the
following crops and percentages have been used in calculating costs and benefits:
Crop                Percentage Crop Area
Cereal - Sorghum                         65.0
Wheat                                     5.0
Legumes                                   5.0
Vegetables                               15.0
Fruit trees (citrus)                      8.5
Coffee                                    1.5
7.           Since no routine measurements were made of yield increases that arose from project
activities, quantification of benefits is difficult to assess. Furthermore, levels of input use and
availability of improved seed were not measured, and no definition was made of how individual
farmers benefited from the project. However, the SSHARDA field activities represent the first
concerted effort at agricultural development in the northern governorates of Yemen and they have
undoubtedly benefited farmers. Due to the lack of data, the mission has estimated without- and with-
project yields and input use. The figures adopted for the analysis are mission estimates and assume
traditional irrigation methods (mainly spate) for the cereal crops and pumped irrigation for the
legumes, vegetables, fruit trees and coffee. Yields are estimated as follows:



- 52 -
Without Project      |       With Project
Crop              ................... Yield ton/ha.
Sorghum               1.0          (3.0)           1.3         (3.6)
Wheat                 1.2          (2.0)           1.5         (2.4)
Legumes               1.0           -              1.4
Vegetables           10.0           -             14.0
Citrus                -             -             13.0 a
Coffee                -             -              0.8 a/
Figures in brackets are fodder yields.
a/ At full development from Year 10 onwards.
8.           Crop budgets for sorghum, wheat, legumes and vegetables are given in Tables l(a)
and 1(b) and for citrus and coffee in Tables 1(c) and 1(d) respectively. Input use assumed in the crop
budgets ranges from 25 kg/ha of urea for sorghum to 100 kg/ha for vegetables. Use of crop
chemicals is estimated to be highest on vegetables (3.5 kg/ha) and on citrus and coffee from Year
10 onwards (3.0 kg/ha).
Farm Models
9.           Based on the crop budgets and estimated cropping patterns with and without the
project, a one-hectare farm model has been developed. For simplicity of presentation the per ha
model is for annual crops only with a percentage of 70% sorghum, 6% wheat, 6% legumes and 18%
vegetables (Table 2). In addition, one hectare models for farmers planting either citrus or coffee are
presented in Tables 3 and 4. The farm models assume that the farm family provides all the labor
required, except during periods of peak labor demand, or on an annual basis an estimated 70% of
labor requirements in the without-project situation. In the with-project situation, the farm family is
assumed to provide the same number of labor days as in the without-project situation, and the
remaining labor requirements, including additional labor requirements due to changes in technology
and increased yields, are assumed to be hired at market rates. As a result, contribution of labor by
the farm family in the with-project situation falls to around 65% in the case of field crops. For the
citrus and coffee perennial crop models it has been assumed that 70% of labor would be provided
by the farm family.
B. Financial Analysis
10.          As shown in Table 2, the one-hectare model shows a satisfactory increase in net
returns with project, from around YR126,000 (US$1,050) without the project to around YR178,500
(US$1,490) with the project, an increase of about 40%. Return per family labor day also increases
from about YR2,200 without project to about YR3, 110 with the project.
11.          The two one-hectare models for citrus and coffee planting (Tables 3 and 4) also show
very attractive returns, with financial rates of return on investment of around 50%. This very good
result is largely due to the high farm-gate prices for citrus and coffee. Current selling price for citrus
is around YR40,000 (US$333) per ton, while coffee is extremely high at YR300,000 (US$2,500) per
ton, or around seven times 1995 world market prices.



- 53 -
C. Economic Analysis
12.          The ICR prepared by NORADEP estimates that some 34,000 ha and around 13.300
farmers were covered by the project (see also Table 5 - main report). It is estimated that 10% of
this area was planted with citrus and coffee supported by seedlings produced by nurseries established
by the project.
13.          Based on the above data combined with field observations and detailed discussions
with NORADEP/SSHARDA project staff, the ICR mission has estimated that a total of 34,000 ha
of land have benefited from the project. These areas are classified as follows:
-     Annual crops represented by Model 1 (Table 2), covering 30,600 ha (90%)
of total area covered;
-     Citrus planting, represented by Model 2 (Table 3), covering 2,890 ha (8.5%)
of total area covered; and
-     Coffee, represented by Model 3 (Table 4), covering 510 ha (1.5%) of total
area covered.
14.          The main benefits are those resulting from the uptake of improved practices as a
result of the strengthened agricultural support services financed by the project, which focused mainly
on vegetable and fruit production with irrigation. Benefits as a result of increased fodder availability
and hence increased animal production, particularly of milk, have not been quantified. The analysis
assumes a 30-year project life (5 years longer than in the SAR) in order to accommodate the planting
of perennial crops over the period FY1992-96. The adjustments made for the economic analysis are
described below.
15.          Project Costs. Records of project investment and recurrent costs (maintained by the
project in US$ terms converted at the market rate prevailing at the time the costs were incurred) total
US$32.1 million, or about US$7.3 million less than anticipated at appraisal (Tables 8A and 8B -
main report). For the purposes of the economic analysis, project costs have been adjusted by
deducting expenditures in respect of import of agricultural input items, subloans made through
CACB, and engineering consultancy (financed by UNDP and Government) which relates to schemes
not yet implemented and for which no benefits have been identified or included. These items together
total US$9.28 million. The project costs after deduction of these items are US$22.84 million and
have been brought to constant 1995 US$ value by applying an inflator derived from the MUV index
(Table 5), giving a total adjusted project cost for the economic analysis of US$25.00 million. Annual
replacement of vehicles and equipment from 1996 onwards has been assumed to be 20% of the total
project investment in these items.
16.          Maintenance of civil works has been estimated at 2% annually of the construction
costs. Salaries and other operating costs from 1996 onwards have been estimated on the basis of
recurrent expenditure by the project for these purposes in 1995, but assuming that the figures only
cover three quarters of the year. Figures for salary and other operating costs are, therefore, estimated
at around YR35.8 million (US$300,000) annually.
17.          Output and Input Prices. Prices used for valuing production and cost of inputs in
both the financial and economic analyses are in constant 1995 values, and are summarized in
Table 6. Financial prices of sorghum, wheat and pulses are significantly higher than their economic
values, which reflects the strong preference of Yemeni consumers for locally grown commodities.
Prices used for the economic analysis of traded commodities produced and imported agricultural
input items have been derived from World Bank price forecasts, as presented in Table 7, and use



- 54 -
an effective exchange rate of YR120 per US$1. The world market coffee price has been adjusted by
a conversion factor of 1.4 to allow for the 40% premium paid for Yemeni coffee (as was also
assumed in the SAR). Prices of non-traded agricultural commodities produced have been adjusted
by a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.85. For labor it is assumed that 70% of the labor
requirements in the without-project situation are provided by the farm family and the 30% of hired
labor is only employed during peaks of labor shortage when the opportunity cost of labor is equal
to the market wage. Incremental labor in the with-project situation has also been costed at market
rates. Since fuel costs are heavily subsidized, with diesel selling at only YR3 per litre (2.5 US cents),
or less than a third of the world price, tractor costs have been increased by a conversion factor of
1.5 and irrigation for citrus and coffee by a conversion factor of 3.0.
18.          Without-Project Situation and Phasing of Project Benefits. A most important
factor of the analysis is what assumptions can reasonably be made regarding the without-project
situation and the phasing of benefits in the with-project situation. For the latter the benefits from
annual crops are assumed to start five years after project commencement and to develop over a 10-
year period to reach full development in 2002, the 15th year of the project, and to remain constant
thereafter. The areas of citrus and coffee are assumed to be planted over the five-year period 92-96.
19.          In the without-project situation it appears reasonable to assume that there should be
some increase in agricultural productivity even in the absence of the project (as was also assumed
in the SAR). However, bearing in mind that the project represents the first concerted attempt to
provide adequate services to farmers in the Region it would also appear justified to assume rather
slow growth if such services were denied to farmers. The base case assumes that in the without-
project situation net benefits increase from the 1989 project commencement through to 2002 by 1%
annually. From 2002 onwards net agricultural benefits in the without-project situation are assumed
to remain constant.
20.           Economic Rate of Return. Based on these estimates and assumptions, the project's
economic rate of return is recalculated to be 12.5%, with the assumption that without project net
benefits increase by 1 %  annually.  (Because of data limitations, the ERR calculation used
conservative assumptions.)
21.           Sensitivity Analysis. The findings of the sensitivity analysis in relation to changes
in benefits, costs and phasing of costs and benefits is presented in Table 10 and summarized below.
Item                                     ERR %
Base case a                                                        12.5
Benefits down 20%                                                  10.1
Costs up 20%                                                       10.5
Benefits down 20% and costs up 20%                                 8.1
Benefits lagged against costs by two years                         10.4
Benefits lagged against costs by two years and costs               8.7
increase by 20%
al Assuming 1 % annual increase in net agricultural benefits in the without project situation, (see para. 19 above).
22.           The economic analysis, therefore, indicates that despite the difficulties experienced
during project implementation due mostly to factors outside the control of management, the project
is likely to recover its costs and show a minimal but satisfactory return on the investment.



- 55 -
Table l(a) - Crop Budgets (ha): Input
Requirements and Yield for Sorghum and Wheat
Unit               Sorghum                               Wheat
Without   |      With            Without               With
Seed                          kg            35              35              130                  130
Fertilizer
N                           kg           15              25               30                   45
p                           kg            -               -                -                   15
K                           kg                    -               -                             -
Chemical                   1/kg         0.5              1.0               -                   1.0
Cultivation
Tractors                   hour          7                7                7                   7
Animal                     day          20 "'           20 ~'            20 -i                20 a/
Labor
Hired                      day           23              26               18                   18
Family                     day           53              53               41                   41
TOTAL       day          76 h/            79 h/            59 hl                59 hI
Yield
Grain                      ton           1.0             1.3              1.2                  1.5
Fodder                     ton          3.0              3.6              2.0                  2.4
a/ Of which 10 days for land preparation and 10 days for construction of diversions for irrigation.
hO Of which 30 days for construction of irrigation works.
Table 1(b) - Crop Budgets (ha): Input Requirements and Yield
for Legumes and Vegetables
Unit                      Legumes                             Vegetables
Without      |      With             Without      |      With
Seed                      kg                60                 60                 0.5               0.5
Fertilizer
.N                        kg                 -                  -                 75                100
.P                        kg                 -                  -                  -                40
.K                        kg                 -                  -                  -                 15
Chemical                 I/kg                -                  -                 2.0               3.5
Cultivation
.Tractor                hour                 7                  7                 10                 10
.Animal                  day                10                 10                 20                20
Labor
Hired                    day                14                 17                 38                63
.Family                  day                31                 31                 87                87
TOTAL                    day                45                 48                 125               150
Water                  '000 m3               5                  4                  8                 5
Yield
Quantity                 ton                1.00              1.40                10                 14



- 56 -
Table 1(c) . Crop Budgets (ha): Input Requirements and Yield
for Citrus
I   Unit                                        Year
I            I      1      l      2      l       3              4            10-20
Seedlings             no.                440           44              22              -             -
Fertilizer
. N                 kg                 75             50             50             50             50
. P                 kg                 50            25              25             25             25
. K                 kg                 25             15             15             15             15
Chemical              1/kg               1.0           1.5            2.0            2.0            3.0
Cultivation
. Tractor             hour                7             -              -              -              -
.Animal               day                10            10              7              5              5
Labor
.Hired                day                45            27             21             27             35
. Family              day                105           63             49             63             80
TOTAL  day                   150           90              70             90            115
Water                 '000 m3            2.0           2.2            2.5            3.0            3.5
Yield
Quantity              ton                 -             -              -              1              13
Table 1(d) . Crop Budgets (ha): Input Requirements and Yield
for Coffee
Unit                                       Year
I            2               3              4            10-20
Seedlings             no.               1.650          165             80              -             -
Fertilizer
. N                  kg                 75            50             50             50             50
. P                  kg                 50            25             25             25             25
. K                  kg                 25            15              15            15             15
Chemical              1/kg               1.0           1.5             1.5            2.0           3.0
Cultivation
Tractor              hour               7              -              -              -              -
.Animal               day                10            10              7              5              5
Labor
. Hired               day                45            24              15             27            35
. Family              day                105           56              35             63            80
TOTAL       day                150            80             50             90            115
Water                 '000 m3            1.0           1.2             1.5           2.0            2.4
Yield
Quantity              ton                 -             -             0.1            0.5            0.8



- 57 -
I[able 2. Per Hectare Budget Farm Model
WITHOUT PROJECT         WITH PROJECT
Unit.    Unit Price.   Quantity.  Value.    Quantity.    Value.
(YR)                   (YR)                  (YR)
A. Value of Production
Yield                      ton                                136050           -    188100
By-product                 ton                                 21180           -      25416
Gross return                                                  157230                 213516
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Seed                       kg               -      35.99        1317       35.99       1317
Fertilisers
Urea                      kg           35.00      25.80         903       38.20       1337
DAP                       kg           48.00       0.00           0        8.10        389
Muriate of potash         kg           30.00       0.00           0        2.70         81
Agrochemicals            litre/kg     1200.00       0.71         852        1.30       1560
Hired labour              days         400.00      24.58        9833       31.36      12545
Land preparation         T/hour        500.00       7.54        3770        7.54       3770
A/day        500.00      19.40       9700        19.40       9700
Irrigation               000m3           1000        1.65       1650       1.11        1110
Total(inc. 10% other costs)                                    30827             -    34989
C. Net Retum (A)-(B)                                          126403                 178527
Total labour days         days                      81.94                  88.72
Family Labour             days                     57.36                   57.36
Retum to Family Labour   YR/day                              2203.75                3112.50



Table 3. Per Hectare Crop Budget for Citrus
YEAR 1                YEAR 2                YEAR 3                YEAR 4             YEAR 10-30
Unit.    Unit Price.  Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.
(YR)                 (YR)                   (YR)                  (YR)                  (YR)                   (YR)
A. Value of Production
Yield                    ton          40000          0          0          0          0          0          0          1       40000         13    520000
By-product                ton
Gross return                                                    0                     0                     0                 40000                 520000
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Seedlings               number          110        440      48400         44       4840         22       2420          0          0          0           0
Fertiliser
Urea                     kg          35.00         75       2625         50       1750         50       1750         50       1750         50        1750
DAP                      kg          48.00        50        2400         25       1200         25       1200         25       1200         25        1200
Murate of potash         kg          30.00        25         750         15        450         15        450         15        450         15        450
Agrochemicals           litre/kg    1200.00          1       1200          2       1800          2       2400          2       2400          3       3600
Hired labour             days        400.00         45      18000         27      10800         21       8400         27      10800         35       13800
Land preparation        T/hour       500.00          7       3500          0          0          0          0          0          0          0          0
A/day       500.00         10       5000         10       5000          7       3500          5       2500          5        2500
Irrigation              000m3          1000          2       2000          2       2200          3       2500          3       3000          4       3500
Total(inc. 10% other costs)                              92262.50              30844.00               24882.00-             24310.00              29480.00
C. Net Retum (A)-(B)                                       -92263                 30844                -24882                 15690                490520
Totallabourdays          days                      150                    90                    70                    90                   115
Family Labour            days                   105.00                 63.00                 49.00                 63.00                  80.50
Return to Family Labour    YR/day              -878.69               -489.59               -507.80                249.05                6093.42



Table 4. Per Hectare Crop Budget for Coffee
YEAR 1               YEAFI 2               YEAR 3               YEAR 7             YEAR 10-30
Unit.    Unn Price.  Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.    Quantity.    Value.
(YR)                 (YR)                  (YR)                 (YR)                  (YR)                  (YR)
A. Value of Production
Yield                   ton         300000         0          0          0          0        0.1     30000        0.5    150000         0.8    240000
By-product              ton
Gross retum                                                   0                    0                 30000                150000                240000
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Seedlings              number          12       1650      19800        165       1980        80        960          0          0          0         0
Fertliser
Urea                    kg          35.00        75       2625         50       1750        50       1750         50       1750        50       1750
DAP                     kg          48.00        50       2400         25      1200         25       1200         25       1200        25       1200
Muriate of potash       kg          30.00        25        750         15       450         15        450         15        450        15        450
AgrochemicaLs          litre/kg    1200.00         1       1200          2       1800         2       1800          2       2400         3       3600
Hired labour            days        400.00        45      18000        24       9600         15       6000         27      10800        35      13800
Land preparation       T/hour       500.00         7       3500         0          0          0          0          0         0          0          0
A/day       500.00        10       5000         10      5000          7       3500          5       2500         5       2500
Irrigation             000rn3        1000          1       1000          1      1200          2       1500          2      2000          2       2400
Total(inc 10% other costs)                             59702.50              25278.00              18876.00             23210.00              28270.00
C. Net Return (A)-(B)                                    -59703               -25278                 11124                126790               211730
Totallabourdays         days                     150                   80                    50                    90                  115
Family labour           days                   105.00                56.00                 35.00                63.00                 80.50
Retum to Family Labour    YR/day              -568.60              -451.39                317.83              2012.54               2630.19



- 60 -
Table S. Exchange Rates, MIJV Index and Derived Inflator
Year                Exchange Rate           MUV Y Index             Derived Inilator
YR per US$S 
988                                11.00                   95.327                   1.208
1981                               13.00                    95.018                   1.212
1990                               16.18                   100.000                   1.151
1991                               25.98                   102.230                   1.126
1992                               38.05                   106.640                   1.080
1993                               53.79                   106.330                   1.083
1994                              101.68                   110.210                   1.045
1995                              129.73                    15.130                   1.000
W Market exchange rates.
F World Bank Commodity Pricc Forirts, N4ovember 1995.
Table 6. Financial and Economic Prices a/
Financla               Economic
Outp  Pric
. ......  . .................  . . ......
Sorghum                     30000                   17900
Wheel                       25000                   19900
Matzo                       17500                  202W
Sorghum strew               10000                   8500
Wheat suw                    1500                    1300
Matzo sw                     1500                    1300
Ptises                      87500                   40400
Potatoes                    40000                  34000
Vegetbles                   60000                   51000
Cftrus                      40000                  34000
Coffte                     300000                  30900
InxpA prim
..   Ylo... ....... -_.- ..... . ..
Sorghum se                     30                     16
Wheom se                       25                     20
Mabs seed                      1 8                    20
PLise seed                     88                     40
Potato sed                     70                     70
Vegetable seed                800                    800
Ursa                           35                     27
TSP                            48                     25
Murtte dPotfah                 30                     22
Crop chemicals               1200                    1200
.      ..  YR/.. edh. ___
CltnAusedlg                   110                    110
coffe sdliN                    12                     12
.. ..... YR/day  ...._...  . 
Labour                        400                    400
.. .        YR/hour._ ........ ...........
Trador hour                   500                    750
.Y.............. Y/day.
AnImnal draugtd palrday       500                   XSO
v. ro00m..................... . .
lrigatlon water              1000                   3000
a/ Constant 1995 values



- 61 -
Table 7. Derivation of Economic Prices of Internationally-Traded Commodities
A. AT IMPORT PARITY.              Sorghum      Wheat      Maize      Pulses      TSP         MP        Urea
.......................................  USS per ton.
Worldpriceforecast1/                     96        116         98        285         124        106        147
Ouality adjustment factor               0.9        0 9         0.9        0.9          1          1          1
Adjusted fob value                       86        104         88        257         124        106        147
Freight and insurance                    50         50         50         50         50          50        50
cifvalueatportofentry                   136        154        138        307        174         156        197
........................................ YR per ton.
cif value at port of entry            16368      18528      16584      36780      20880       18720      23640
Portduesandhandling                    1104       11C4       1104       1104        1104       1104       1104
Handling/transport/storage             3000       30C0       3000       3000       3000        3000      3000
Value ex-store/market                 20472      22632      20688      40884      24984       22824      27744
Processing cost                           0          0          0          0          0          0
Processing ratio                        0.9        0.9          1          1          1           1          1
Transport/handling                      480        480        480        480        480        480        480
Farmgate price                        17945      19889      20208      40404      24504       22344      27264
B. AT EXPORT PARITY.                Coffee
. ................... USS per ton.
Value fob exit port 2/                  295
..................... .YR per ton.
Value fob exit port                   35448
Port dues and handling                 1104
Handling/transport/storage             3000
Value ex-store/market                 31344
Processing cost                           0
Processing ratlo                          1
Transport/handling                      480
Farmgate price                        30864
1 / World Bank Commodity Price Projections, November 1995. Projections for 2005 in constant 1995 terms.
2/ Assuming a premium over world market prices of 40%, as in the SAR.



Table 8. Economic Analysis: Streams of Benefits, Costs and Net Benefit
I      2      3      4  |5            6       7   |            9   |  10       11       12      13  |  14        15       16    17-30
Benefits
. Field Crops without project  7219.0 7292.0 7365.0 7438.0  7512.0  7587.0  7663.0  7740.0  7817.0  7895.0  7974.0  8054.0  8135.0  8216.0  8298.0  8381.0  8465.0
. Field Crops with project    7219.0 7328.0 743S.0 7549.0  7858.0  8166.0  8474.0  8733.0  9091.0  9400.0  9708.0  10016.0  10325.0  10633.0  10633.0 10633.0 10633.0
. Perennials with project               -       -   -506.0  -695.0  -851.0  -844.0  -514.0   646.0  1814.0  3272.0  4891.0  6510.0  7805.0  8775.0  9422.0  9746.0
Total Incr. Benefits         -      36.0   73.0  -395.0  -349.0  -272.0   -33.0   5.19.0  1920.0  3319.0  5006.0  6853.0  8700.0  10222.0  11110.0 11674.0 11914.0
Costs                                                                                                                                                                       o
Capital Costs                2552.0 3772.0 3046.0 4981.0  5137.0  3586.0  1975.0  19:37.0  1937.0  1937.0  1937.0  1937.0  1937.0  1937.0  1937.0  1937.0  1937.0
Operating Costs                 -      -       -      -       -        -       -     398.0   398.0   398.0   398.0   398.0   398.0   398.0   398.0   398.0  398.0
Totl Cost5                2552.0 3772.0 3046.0 4981.0  5137.0  3586.0  1975.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0  2335.0
Net Benefits
Net Incr. Benefits          -2552.0 -3686.0 -2973.0 -5376.0  -5486.0  -3858.0  -2008.0  -18(6.0  -415.0   984.0  2671.0  4518.0  6365.0  7887.0  8775.0  9339.0  9579.0
IRR - 12.5%



Table 9. Present Values of Net Streams at a Discount Rate of 12.0%
BTOT                 UP 10%                UP 20%                 UP 5|%    DOWN 10%                        DOWN 20%              DOWN 50%
CTOT                         1195.6                3750.9                6306.1                13971.9                -1359.6               -3914.9             -11580.6
UP 10%                      -1240.0                1315.2                3870.5                11536.2               -3795.3                -6350.              -14016.3
UP 20%                      -3675.7               -1120.5                 1434-8                9100.5                -6231.0              -4786.2              -16452.0
UP 50%                     -10982.8                8427.5                -5S72.3                1793.5               -13538.0              -16093.3             -23759.0
DOWN 10%                     3631.3                6186.6                8741.8                16407.6                1076.1                -1479.2              -9144.9
DOWN 20%                     6067.0                8622.3                11177.5               18843.3                3511.8                  956.5              -6709.2
DOWN 50%                    13374.1               15929.3                18484.6               26150.3               10818.8                 8263.6                597.8
BTOT                  LAG I                 LAGC2                  AG3
CTOT                         1195.6               -1542.1               -3986.6                4169.1
UP 10%                      -1240.0               -3977.8                -6422.2               -8604.8
UP 20%                      -3675.7               -613.5                 48857.9              -11040.5
UP 50%                     -10982.8              -13720.6               -16165.0              -18347.5
DOWN 10%                     3631.3                 893.6                -1550.9               -3733.4
DOWN 20%                     6067.0                33291                  88.8                 -1297.7
DOWN 50%                    13374.1               10636.3                8191.9                 6009.3
LAG I                           -                  1067.5               -1376.9                -3559.4
LAG 2                                                                     9- 53.2              -1229.4
LAG 3                                                  -                     -                   851.0



Table 10. Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
j RTOT               UP 10%               WUP20%                  tP                  [KDOWN 10%            DOWN 20%               DOWN 50%
cTOT                         12.521                13.558                 14.504                16.942                   11.374                10.085                4.731
UP 10%                       11.484                12.521                 13A67                 15.898                  10.332                  9.033                3.560
UP 20%                       10.533                 11.574                12.521                14.949                   9.374                  S.063                2.446
UP 50%                        8.063                 9.125                 10.085                12.521                   6.869                  5.501                -0.723
DOWN 10%                     13.667                14.704                 15.652                18.102                  12.521                 11.239                5.980
DOWN 20%                     14.949                15.989                 16.942                19.408                  13.802                 12.521                7.334
DOWN 50%                     20.128                21.198                22.182                 24.739                  18.954                 17.652               12.521
BTOT                  LAG 1                 LAG 2                 L4G 3
CTOT                         12.521                11.351                 l0.369                 9.534
UP 10%                       11.494                10.402                 9.495                  8.724
UP 20%                       10.533                 9.532                  8.693                 7.981
UP 50%                        8.063                 7.270                 6.609                  6.0S1
DOWN 10%                     13.667                12.396                 11.331                10.425
DOWN 20%                     14.949                13.565                 12.405                11.419
DOWN 50%                     20.128                18.263                 16.708                15.391
LAGI                                               12.521                 11.351                10.369
]LAG 2                                               -                    12.521                11.351
1AG 3                                                                                           12.521



- 65 -
Table 11. Switching Values at 12.0%
Stream              Appraisal Value      |      Switching Value             Percentage Change
BTOT                            25552.5                     24356.8                      4.7%
CTOT                            24356.8                     25552.5                       4.9%
Net Prcsent Value at OCC 12.0% = 1195.6
Intemal Rate of Retumn = 12.5%
Coupon Equivalent Rate of Retun = 12.7%






IBRD 283 10
440                                                                460
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
DhohX                    NORTHERN REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAUDI ARABIA  ./        '                                                   PROJECT AREA
PROJECT AREA
-      fAMAIN ROADS
(             I                                                     SECONDARY ROADS
WADIS
\Soodh                                      -     DAM
\     NATIONAL CAPITALS
O Beot              0    CITIES, TOWNS AND VILLAGES
\_ )                   A                                        4,   MAIN PORTS
-Hrod                                                         i      INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
ho  -' -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-16Q                                                                                                                                                  160
Abs                                                                                   MILES
0         20        40        60
0     20   40    60    80   100
Lotsoiyo       AzzhHnl|                                                                                   KILOMETERS
|IKhush                          Al Q.b,        h                         Mods - b 
Solif       Z  Y          Al Mohal, t       ANAA         ha
Al Kathib             Sookho                             Z-1,
Hodeidah                                   Du-
mo-suyoh      omn.< c 
Ala   B|, OAl H.yhRdo
Al Koukboundaries Kcshq    dunan
N'~ 1\H
Al                       A, Rhdh                                             p 
DuboT  W                                                              ny Shibo     u
ERITREA                                
jADEN
'y   \  ,/                                                                        r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he boundories, colors, dernominations
ETHIOPIA  j  . /                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~this map o'o not imply, on the part of
DJIBOUTI                                                                                        on the /ega/ tatus of any territory, or
such boundaries.
440                                                               460
SEPTEMBER 1996






S A U D I      A R A B I A
N    1 ~ EUBC  FYEE                                        su,*r.'
(~~~~~~~~~J W
H O D   E I                       A A D TEr;
?W. -1~~~~~~~~~~1
REPUB~~~~~~~~TlIl ICOF YEMEN So   IJIABA
*  EITIOI   C rTjrE lRv i.    0 -  5C 1 HF I14   ClOTS 1  ,    
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-   - 1IE1S.11 ETOA  E04N4C5111 50
n     ,MN1AlO'FES_    OE  0D
^i FUiCI                        rrlr    ro-,i   O 
i   IC^  rdG  CEr.IIC l , 0 rJEEA ........... .r5 c s~rRIlPE









I14AGING
Report No:       15975
Type: ICB



