Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1886 YAR
       (Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
           THE COOPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK
                       Dated August 4, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August   4,   1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and THE COOPERATIVE AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK (hereinafter called CACB).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Yemen Arab Republic  (the Borrower) and the Asso-
ciation, the  Association  has  agreed  to  make  available to the
Borrower an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to twelve
million   five   hundred   thousand      Special   Drawing  Rights
(SDR 12,500,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that CACB
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and CACB, part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
available to CACB on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS, in consideration of  the Association's entering into
Page  2
the Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower,  CACB has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  Development Credit Agreement and in
the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined)  have  the  respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. CACB declares  its commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the
Project and conduct its operations  and affairs with due diligence
and efficiency and in  conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and  economic  and investment standards and
practices, shall provide,  or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for Part C of the Project.
     Section 2.02. CACB shall ensure that:
     (a)  its financing of Schemes shall  be  made on the basis of
policies and procedures designed to further its corporate purposes
as provided  in  the  CACB  Act;  and,  to  that  end, has adopted
appropriate lending  guidelines  applicable  to  the Project Area,
acceptable to the Association.
     (b)  except as the Association may otherwise agree, Sub-loans
shall be made on the  principal  terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for Parts C (3) and C (4)
of the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  CACB  shall  take  all  measures  necessary to
ensure that goods and services  financed  under  Part C (1) of the
Project out of the proceeds  of  Sub-loans are used exclusively in
the carrying out of the  Schemes by Beneficiaries and shall obtain
from Beneficiaries by written  contract  or other apropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association
and CACB,  including,  that  each  Beneficiary  shall undertake to
purchase the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan at a reasonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability  of  the   goods   and   availability  of  maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services,
of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.
     Section 2.05. (a) CACB shall  (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to: (A) record  and  monitor the progress of Part C
of the Project, including the  Schemes,  and the cost and benefits
to be derived therefrom; and  (B)  identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds  of  the Credit and to disclose their
use therein;  (ii)  enable  the  Association's  representatives to
visit the facilities of CACB and  of the construction sites of the
Schemes, and to examine the goods  financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and  any  relevant  records  and  documents; and (iii)
furnish to  the  Association  at  regular  intervals not exceeding
three  months  all  such  information  as  the  Association  shall
reasonably request concerning said  Part of the Project, including
Page  3
the  Schemes,  the  cost  thereof,  and,  where  appropriate,  the
benefits  to  be  derived  therefrom,  the  expenditures  of  such
proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds,
and the  administration,  operations  and  financial  condition of
CACB.
     (b) CACB shall cooperate fully  with the Borrower in the pre-
paration by the  Borrower  of  the  report  referred to in Section
9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and, to that end, shall prepare
and furnish to the  Borrower  information concerning the execution
and initial operations of the Schemes, their cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived  from  them,  the performance by CACB of
its obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of Part C of the Project.
     Section 2.06. CACB  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, CACB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.07. (a) CACB shall,  at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part C of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  CACB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which would interfere  with  the  progress  of  Part C of the
Project, the accomplishment of the  purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by CACB of  its  obligations  under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.08. CACB shall  exercise  its rights in relation to
each Scheme in such manner as  to (i) protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and  CACB,  (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
(iii) achieve the purposes of Part C of the Project.
     Section 2.09. CACB shall  establish  and maintain a revolving
fund by June 30, 1990  for  the  import and sale of fertilizer and
plant protection  chemicals  financed  under  Part  C  (4)  of the
Project  and  shall  maintain  records  and  accounts  adequate to
reflect its  operations.    CACB  shall  deposit sufficient Yemeni
Rials into the revolving fund for the procurement, import and sale
of additional fertilizer  and  plant  protection chemicals, which,
when converted at the  official  rate  of  exchange on the date of
deposit, will  equal  U.S.$3,100,000.    Thereafter,  the Borrower
shall provide foreign exchange for  the conversion of Yemeni Rials
deposited into the revolving fund.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of CACB
     Section 3.01. CACB shall carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs under  the  supervision  of  qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. (a) CACB  shall,  in consultation with SSHARDA,
appoint a duly qualified and  experienced senior manager as credit
coordinator who shall be  directly  responsible to the Chairman of
CACB and who shall have such responsibilities and powers as may be
necessary or incidental to  the  proper management and supervision
of CACB's activities in the  Project Area, and in particular those
relating  to  field  operations  and  formulation  of  appropriate
lending procedures.
     (b)  CACB shall assign duly  qualified and experienced credit
officers from its branches  to  all  block  centers in the Project
Area who shall be directly responsible to CACB branch managers and
who shall: (i) supervise and effect recoveries of outstanding Sub-
Page  4
loans;  (ii)   provide   training   to   Beneficiaries  in  credit
application   procedures;   and   (iii)   provide   assistance  to
Beneficiaries in preparation of loan applications under Part C (2)
of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  CACB  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  CACB shall maintain separate  accounts for the revolving
fund and for all amounts  paid  by  CACB on account of withdrawals
made   by   Beneficiaries   under   Sub-loans   and  corresponding
withdrawals from the Credit Account;
     (c)  CACB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited and (B) the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of CACB thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date twenty-five years  after  the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section,  the  Association shall promptly notify CACB
of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  5
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For CACB:
          The Cooperative and
            Agricultural Credit Bank
          P.O. Box 2850
          Sana'a, Yemen Arab Republic
                                            Telex:
                                               2544 CACBANK YE
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  CACB  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Chairman or such other person  or  persons as CACB shall designate
in writing, and CACB  shall  furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Ardy Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    THE COOPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK
                    By /s/ Mohsin Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  6
                            SCHEDULE 1
                        Lending Guidelines
            Applicable to Sub-loans in the Project Area
1.   Sub-loans  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the Lending
Guidelines and on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
2.   The principal of  a  Sub-loan  or  Sub-loans  made to any one
Beneficiary shall  not  exceed  the  lesser  of  90%  of the total
investment cost of the  Scheme(s)  or  Yemeni Rials 500,000 in the
aggregate.
3.   Sub-loans will have grace periods  equal to the time required
for completion of  construction  or  implementation of the Schemes
and will have the following amortization periods:
          (i)  for  pipes,  an  amortization  period  up  to three
               years;
         (ii)  for orchards,  an  amortization  period  up to five
               years;
        (iii)  for machinery, an  amortization  period  up to five
               years; and
         (iv)  for other  medium  term  lending  for Sub-loans for
               other Schemes, an  amortization  period  up to four
               years.
4.   In approving applications  for  Sub-loans,  CACB shall ensure
that the Schemes  conform  to  sound technical specifications, and
are  consistent  with  the  Borrower's  groundwater  plan  for the
Project Area.
