Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21497
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-22400)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.8 MILLION (US$45.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE FAMILY HEALTH I PROJECT
December 12, 2000
HEALTH, NUTRITION AND POPULATION SECTOR
SOUTH ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2000)
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (Rs.)
Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.0174
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 57.31
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AFA           Area Focus Approach
AG            Auditor General
AIH           Assistant Inspectoress Health
AKU           Aga Khan University
BHU           Basic Health Unit
C&W           Civil Works Department
CD            Civil Dispensary
CDC           Communicable Disease Control
CH            Civil Hospital
CPR           Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DFID          Department for International Developmet
DGHS          Director General Health Services
DHDC          District/Divisional Health Development Centre
DHMT          District Health Management Team
DHO           District Health Officer
DHQ           District Headquarter
DoH           Department of Health
ECNEC         Executive Committee of National Economic Council
EOC           Emergency Obstetric Care
EPI           Expanded Program of Immunization
FATA          Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FHP           Family Health Project
FHT           Female Health Technician
FIC            Fully Immunized Children
FLCF          First Level Care Facility
FP            Family Planning
GOP           Govemment of Pakistan
GOS           Govemment of Sindh
GoNWFP        Govemment of North West Frontier Province
H & NE                Health and Nutrition Education
HDC           Health Development Centre
HMIS          Health Management Information System
Vice President:    Meiko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:    Richard Lee Skolnik
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere/Shahnaz Kazi



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
HRD            Human Resource Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IMR            Infant Mortality Rate
IUD            Intra-uterine Device
LHV            Lady Health Visitor
LHW            Lady Health Worker
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MO             Medical Officers
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NBF            Not for Bank Funding
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Govemmental Organization
NID            National Immunization Day
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PC-I           Planning Commission Form I
PDHS           Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey
PE&D           Planning, Environment and Development Department
PFFPS          Pakistan Fertility and Family Planning Survey
PIHS           Pakistan Integrated and Household Survey
PHC            Primary Health Care
PHDC           Provincial Health Development Centre
PHSA           Provincial Health Services Academy
PP&H           Physical Planning and Housing Department
RHC            Rural Health Centre
SAP            Social Action Program
SAPP           Social Action Program Project
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SCF            Save the Children Fund
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
TB             Tuberculosis
TBA            Traditional Birth Attendant
THQ            Tehsil/Taluqa Headquarter
UNICEF                 United Nations Children's Fund
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
VHC            Village Health Committee
WHO            World Health Organization
WMO            Women Medical Officers
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
6. Sustainability                                                                   13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 17
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                         18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              32
Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies Contribution to the ICR                    33
Annex 9. Cofinanciers' Contribution to the ICR                                      53






Project ID: P010371                                        Project Name: FAMILY HEALTH
Team Leader: Shahnaz Kazi                                  TL Unit: SASHP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: FAMILY HEALTH                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-22400
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                               Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/05/1987                               Effective:  10/07/91           03/27/92
Appraisal:  10/15/1990                                 MTR: 06/15/96               06/19/97
Approval:  05/07/1991                               Closing:  12/31/99            04/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT. OF PAKISTAN/SINDH & NWFP DOH
Other Partners: Department of International Development
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                             Joseph P. Wood
Country Manager:      John W. Wall                               Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:       Richard Lee Skolnik                        Roberto Cuca
Team Leader at ICR:   Hugo Diaz-Etchevehere                      Christopher D. Walker
ICR Primary Author:   Shahnaz Kazi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substatntial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had three main objectives: a) to improve the health status of the population in the
provinces of North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) and Sindh; (b) to increase the effectiveness
of the existing health care network; and (c) to build the institutional capacity to realize these
objectives.



The project was co-financed by Save the Children Fund (SCF) and the Department of
International Development (DFID). SCF provided technical assistance for the staff development
component in NWFP and DFID supported activities to improve health service delivery in the
Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). The project was implemented in parallel with the
Social Action Program Projects (SAPP) I and II which provided a supportive policy and
institutional framework aimed at enhancing access and quality of basic social services including
primary health care.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no change in the original objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
Strengthening Health Services (US $35.4 million) by: a) introduction of an enhanced package
of matemal and child health services including family planning; and b) integration and expansion
of the Community Disease Control (CDC) Program.
Staff Development (US $7.1 million) by: a) instituting continuing education; b) supporting an
extensive program of overseas training; and c) expanding pre-service training capacity and
developing career enhancement programs for female paramedics.
Management and Organization Development (US $20.4 million) by: a) introducing systematic
management training; b) developing monitoring, information and financial systems; and c)
strengthening supervisory skills and practices.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured in May 1997 and a number of activities in each component were
scaled down to bring them in line with implementation capacity. The scope of the health service
delivery component was modified to undertake comprehensive improvement in performance of a
limited number of primary health facilities covering 10 percent of the population of each province.
This approach which was named the Area Focus Approach (AFA) included the following
activities: correcting deficiencies of female paramedics; in-service training; provision of essential
drugs and MCH supplies; promoting linkages of the primary health care system downward
through community based Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs) and Lady Health Workers
(LHWs) and upward with first level referral facilities.
Within the broad original components some new pilot interventions were added to: a) promote
community involvement in management of primary health care through Village Health
Committees; and b) decentralization of health services to the district level. Additionally in NWFP
support was provided for upgrading 10 referral hospitals and stipends for student nurses.
As a result of the restructuring the total IDA Credit was reduced from its original amount of SDR
31.8 million (US$45.1 million equivalent) to SDR 26.0 million (US$37.2 million equivalent). A
further cancellation of SDR 86,000 (US$0.1 million equivalent) in October 1998 because of
misprocurement and SDR 2.8 million ($3.8 million equivalent) was made in March 1999 in
response to a request from the Government of Sindh due to slow implementation and exchange
rate related savings.
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
A formal review by the Quality Assurance Group was not available at the time of project
preparation and appraisal.
The project objectives were consistent with the Bank and IDA strategy at the time, which
emphasized the need to improve quality and coverage of basic social services especially for
women. The goals were also in keeping with Government's Health Policy announced in 1990,
which identified quality of primary health services, staff and management development as priority
areas.
However, the project design was overly ambitious and not based on a realistic assessment of the
limited technical and management capacities of the Departments of Health at the time.
Recognizing institutional constraints to implementation project components were scaled down
during the restructuring.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were all encompassing and
lacked sufficient focus. The links between the overly general objectives and envisaged project
interventions were not clearly specified. Also lacking at appraisal was agreement on a
well-defined set of monitoring indicators. As the project evolved and during the Mid-Tern
Review agreement was reached with the Government on a set of mostly process indicators to
track progress towards development objectives. These included changes in utilization of maternal
health services, immunization rates, clients of family planning services as well as some indicators
to monitor staff and management development.
The evaluation of achievements is based on project objectives as interpreted in the initial years and
the Mid-Term Review.
Overall the project inputs contributed to: improving access to and quality of maternal health
services including family planning; enhancing staff development through in-service training,
expansion of pre-service training capacity and career enhancement programs of female
paramedics; improving managerial capabilities and strengthening the health management
information system. In view of the above attainments, the project is rated as satisfactory in
meeting its objectives.
4.1.1. Improving Quality and Access of Maternal and Child Health (MCH) services and Family
Planning (FP)
Key performance indicators of project attainments including coverage of antenatal care,
contraceptive prevalence rates and institutional deliveries are primarily based on provincially
representative household surveys. Improvements in these indicators reflect the influence of a
number of factors both within and outside the health sector and therefore cannot be attributed to
project inputs alone. However, within the government primary health care system, strengthening
of antenatal, natal care and family planning services were supported mainly through project
- 3 -



interventions within the enabling environment of SAPPII. Consequently trends in utilization of
public health facilities by rural women, based on household survey data and supplemented where
necessary by service statistics, provide a rough measure of the project's contribution to
improvements in provincial indicators. Additionally, in the final year of the project a comparative
assessment of performance in AFA and non-AFA areas including availability, knowledge and
skills of staff as well as of physical inputs financed by the project was undertaken by independent
consultants in NWFP and the Aga Khan University in Sindh.
The data indicate a rising trend in contraceptive use which has doubled in both provinces between
1991/92 and 1996/97 (Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 1990/91; Pakistan Family
Planning and Fertility Survey 1996/97). The contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) has risen from
8.6 percent to 18.7 percent in NWFP and from 12.4 to 23.4 percent in Sindh. Over the same
period CPR for rural areas rose more rapidly increasing from 6 percent to 16 percent in NWFP
and from 2 percent to 13 percent in Sindh. The share of modem methods was highest in NWFP at
80 percent and 73 percent in Sindh as compared to 71 percent nation-wide (Pakistan Fertility and
Family Planning Survey 1996/97).
Improvements in contraceptive prevalence rates partly reflect the combined impact of SAPPII and
the Family Health project. SAPPII supported increased contraceptive supplies, social marketing
and IEC activities while the project's contribution was to integrate family planning in primary
health services and provide the necessary training to health personnel. There has been a
substantial expansion of family planning services through the Government's primary health system
over the last decade. While in the early nineties family planning was not part of the primary health
care package, currently contraceptives are available in 75 and 50 percent of first level care
facilities in NWFP and Sindh respectively. According to Department of Health statistics for 1999
the total number of family planning clients was 436055 in Sindh and 209394 in NWFP indicating a
doubling of clients over the last three years.
Coverage of ante-natal care through qualified providers (doctors, Lady Health Visitors and
nurses) has doubled in rural NWFP rising from 14 percent in the early nineties (Pakistan
Demographic and Health Survey 1991/92) to 28 percent in 1996/97 (Pakistan Fertility and Family
Planning Survey 1996/97). The proportion of urban women availing of antenatal care in the
province has risen from 34 percent to 53 percent. Change in institutional deliveries has been
relatively slow and the majority of births still take place at home. Facility based deliveries as a
proportion of total births have gone up from 6 percent to 9 percent in rural areas and from 14 to
24 percent in urban NWFP during the period from 1991 to 1997.
In Sindh while overall level of the above services was better than NWFP in the early nineties there
has been relatively slower progress over time. Between 1991 and 1997 the proportion of pregnant
women seeking antenatal care rose from 19 to 26 percent in rural areas and from 67 percent to 78
percent in urban parts of the province. The proportion of health facility births in rural Sindh
increased from 6 percent to 8 percent and in urban areas from 47 to 55 percent. Urban rural
differences are most pronounced in Sindh and have only slightly diminished over time.
Further, the evidence indicates greater reliance of women in NW7FP on public sector facilities.
- 4 -



Despite more stringent norms of seclusion, the proportion of ever-married women who visited
health facilities for treatment of minor ailments/preventive care of self and children was highest in
NWFP (69 percent) as compared to 59 percent in Sindh and a nationwide average of 54 percent
(Pakistan Family Planning and Fertility Survey 1996/97). Even more striking is the fact that
two-thirds of the visits were to public health providers as compared to corresponding figures of
31 percent in Sindh and one-third nationwide. The findings are consistent with Pakistan
Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) data which show an increasing reliance of rural women in
NWFP on public health services for treatment of childhood diarrhea. Between 1990-91 and
1998/99 first consultations with public health practitioners have risen from one-fourth to nearly
one half of cases where treatment was sought. Dependence on public facilities is significantly
lower in Sindh and has not improved over time.
The improvement in provincial MCH indicators and increased utilization of public health facilities
in NWFP are attributable to a combination of demand and supply influences. However, key
project interventions including recruitment and in-service training of a large number of female
paramedics, provision of MCH equipment and supplies, are likely to have contributed to the
positive trend. The expansion of maternal health services in rural Sindh has progressed relatively
slowly due to the persistent shortages of female paramedics who are currently available in roughly
52 percent of primary health facilities despite more than a twofold increase in their number over
the life of the project.
Area Focus Approach (AFA): A facility-based assessment of performance of AFA and
non-AFA sites was conducted in December 1999 in both provinces covering a total of 110
facilities. The findings confirmed that project inputs including drugs, MCH supplies and
equipment were largely in place in AFA facilities. AFA facilities were better staffed with female
paramedics although there was greater availability of doctors in non-AFA sites. In Sindh more
than two-thirds of AFA facilities had a female staff in place against 45 percent of non-AFA
facilities while in NWFP overall availability of female staff was much higher and differences
between AFA and non-AFA facilities less marked (93 percent vs. 83 percent). A larger
proportion of female paramedics in AFA (75 percent) as compared to non-AFA (20 percent) had
received in-service training in Sindh while the reverse was true in NVVFP (50 percent trained in
AFA vs. 75 percent in non-AFA). A significantly larger proportion nearly two-thirds of AFA
facilities in Sindh had established linkages with TBAs as compared to less than one-third in
non-AFA sites while in NWFP little effort was made to develop these linkages in both areas.
However, in NWFP despite some improved inputs to AFA there was little difference in results
between the two groups of facilities. Roughly one-third of pregnant women in the catchment
areas were receiving antenatal care and were immunized against tetanus toxoid in both groups.
Staff in AFA conducted 4 percent of expected deliveries as compared to an even lower 2 percent
in non-AFA. Due to lack of reliable data it was not possible to measure inter-temporal changes in
performance.
In Sindh a comparative analysis of AFA and non-AFA facilities between 1997 and 1999 was
undertaken using HMIS data whose coverage in the province has remained high and relatively
constant over the period. The findings indicate that while in 1997 facilities chosen for AFA were
- 5 -



already functioning better than those located in non-AFA, the difference has increased
substantially over the two-year period. The proportion of pregnant women receiving antenatal
care in AFA has risen from 19 percent to 26 percent and is more than four-fold higher than
antenatal coverage in non-AFA sites. Family planning visits in AFA rose from 125 per facility per
month to 154 in 1999 while the comparable figure of 35 for non-AFA has remained unchanged.
The improved utilization rates in AFA facilities in Sindh seem largely due to greater availability of
female paramedics, better linkages with communities through TBAs and close supervision of the
AFA sites by the staff of Provincial Health Development Centre/District Health Development
Centres and relatively greater involvement of District Health Officers in the process. In NWFP
the differences in female staffing were relatively less marked and supportive supervision was
limrited.
4.1.2. Integration and Expansion of the Communicable Disease Control (CDC) Program
Integration of CDC programs at the service delivery level was not possible due to institutional and
administrative constraints such as legal irnplications of the merger of cadres, determining seniority
across cadres and resistance by staff of vertical programs. However the project has contributed to
CDC programs through strengthening diagnostic capacities, provision of transport and training of
health personnel.
Immunization. Although immunization coverage has risen over the duration of the project it is far
short of universal coverage in both provinces (Pakistan Integrated Household Surveys). Between
1991 and 1999 the proportion of fully immunized children between twelve to twenty three months
of age has risen in Sindh from 16 percent (5 percent rural and 33 percent urban) to 38 percent (27
percent rural and 60 percent urban). The comparable rates in NWFP were relatively higher in the
early nineties at 41 percent (42 percent rural, 36 percent urban) and have risen further to 55
percent (51 percent rural and 77 percent in urban areas) by the end of the decade.
Malaria control. The detection and management of malaria has improved substantially in Sindh
and to a lesser extent in NWFP. Over the nineties there has been a 50 percent increase in patients
screened through blood tests in Sindh while the proportion of confirmed cases of malaria has
declined with the slide positivity rate falling from 7 to 3 percent. Over the same period
surveillance has increased by 15 percent in NWFP but there has been little change in the
proportion of confirmed malaria cases.
TB DOTS program. The coverage of the TB DOTS program in NWFP has been exteinded to 30
percent of the population as compared to 8 percent nationwide. Project resources have made a
significant contribution to the program through provision of anti-tuberculosis drugs, staff training
and facilitating transport for district specialists.
4.1.3. Building Institutional Capacity
In-service Training. To institutionalize in-service training and management development, a
network of provincial and district health development centres has been established. In Sindh the
- 6 -



Provincial Health Development Centre (PHDC) and 16 District Health Development Centres
(DHDCs) have been set up while NWFP has instituted the Provincial Health Services Academy
(PHSA) and 7 Divisional Health Development Centres (DHDCs). A field based assessment
conducted in 1999 revealed that the training had improved knowledge and skills in several areas
including laboratory techniques and family planning. However, it was also observed that subject
knowledge in health education and nutrition was less than desirable and communication and
counseling skills of health providers had not been adequately developed.
Reducing Gender Imbalances in Staffing. Enrollment of nurses in NWFP has increased by 50
percent as a result of rehabilitation and expansion of pre-service training schools and provision of
stipends for student nurses. In Sindh to redress regional imbalances in availability of female staff a
policy of reserving seats in public health schools for rural candidates has been in effect since 1998.
The proportion of students from less developed parts of the province has risen in the last two
years from 10 percent to 50 percent of enrollments in public health schools. In addition, the
government of Sindh is implementing an incentive package for female paramedics including
special allowances for rural areas and greater progression in their career path.
Improved Planning and Management Capacity. The project has made a substantial contribution
to building capacity of the Departments of Health through an extensive program of overseas
training in key areas including health sector financing, information systems and hospital
management. The trained staff with few exceptions are working in appropriate positions and in
NWFP were instrumental in undertaking sector analysis and strategy development.
A Health Management Information System (HMIS) is now fully functional in both provinces.
However, the use of HMIS as a management tool has yet to evolve.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Strengthening Health Services
Maternal Health Services: The quality of MCH services has been enhanced through: in-service
training of female health personnel in MCH, family planning, health and nutrition education;
provision of MCH equipment to over 1000 facilities; provision of essential drugs and medical
supplies; and upgradation of 131 first level care facilities and 20 Tehsil/Taluka (THQ) hospitals to
provide labour and delivery facilities.
Monitoring and supervision of MCH services has been strengthened in Sindh through
reorganization and extension of the MCH unit of the Directorate to the district level. The staff of
the MCH Unit has increased from four in the early nineties to the current strength of 31. Mobility
has been facilitated through the provision of 6 vehicles. Close collaboration has been established
between the MCH Unit and the community health workers' program through initiating a system
of joint field visits. The capacity of the supervisory cadre has been built through training and tools
specifically developed for monitoring. Technical assistance has been effectively used to facilitate
these interventions. However, in NWFP the MCH supervisory cadre although adequately staffed
has limited capacity to carry out its tasks effectively due to lack of training in management and
supervisory skills.
-7 -



Family Planning: The project has contributed considerably to integration of family planning in
primary health care services. Close collaboration has been developed between the Departments of
Health and Population Welfare in the provision of training and more recently in resolving
bottlenecks to contraceptive supply. Over 600 female health staff in NWFP and 462 in Sindh have
been trained in family planning. Recognizing that female staff shortages in rural areas of Sindh
were likely to continue in the short term 261 male paramedics have been trained and are providing
a limited range of contraceptives. IUD kits have been provided to first level care facilities and
mini-lap equipment to Rural Health Centres. Currently contraceptives are available in 75 percent
of primary health facilities in NWFP and 50 percent in Sindh. The family planning component in
Sindh although falling short on coverage has evidenced a strong focus on quality of care through
intensive and practically oriented training and strengthened supervision.
Improved Availability of Female Staff: Access to MCH/FP services has been extended through
increased recruitment of female service providers in both provinces. The number of female
paramedics has risen in NWFP from 790 in 1993 to 1303 in 1999 and currently 85 percent of
health facilities have atleast one female staff in place. In Sindh although the number of female
paramedics has increased from 186 to 442 shortages of female service providers persist
particularly in remote areas. Between 1992 and 1999 primary health facilities with a female staff
in place has risen from 35 percent to 52 percent of the total.
TBA Training: An intensive TBA training pilot was undertaken in 10 districts of Sindh which
successfully established linkages between TBAs and the primary health care system. The program
provided training to 89 female paramedic master trainers, 254 TBAs and 382 Lady Health
Workers (LHWs) in their catchment areas. The TBAs were followed up and supported by LHWs
under the guidance of the paramedic trainers. The entire process was closely monitored and
supervised. A field based assessment of the scheme indicated that the communities noted visible
improvement in the delivery practices of TBAs who in addition motivated women to seek
antenatal care, and often accompanied clients to the health centres. It was also observed that
delivery practices of some untrained TBAs were highly unsafe such as cutting of umbilical cords
with old blades and use of surma (coal applied to eyes) on umbilical stumps to make them heal
faster.
Upgrading Referral Facilities: The project has refurbished 47 operating theatres, provided 23
ultrasound machines, 15 X-Ray machines and 92 ambulances to improve referral facilities. In
addition 10 casualty blocks and residences for female paramedics at district hospitals have been
constructed in NWFP. The number of gynecologist/obstetricians and anesthetists posted to first
level referral facilities in NWFP has doubled from 17 to 34 over the project life. In Sindh 102
general duty doctors have been trained in anesthesia, gynecology and obstetrics and posted to first
level referral facilities. It is too early to assess the impact of these interventions since most of the
equipment was procured in the final phase of the project and much would depend on the ability to
retain specialists in rural facilities.
Communicable Disease Control (CDC): The main project inputs to improve the quality of CDC
programs were for laboratory, clinical equipment, transport and training. Diagnostic capacities
-8 -



were enhanced through provision of laboratory equipment, consumables, 400 microscopes and
retraining of 310 staff and their conversion to multi-purpose lab technicians. The project has with
some success established mini-laboratories in 77 Basic Health Units in Sindh; however these
interventions have fallen short of strengthening diagnostic capacities in NWFP.
Physical inputs to the malaria program include provision of anti-malarial drugs, 240 motorcycles
and 300 bicycles for supervisors and outreach workers. The TB DOTS program in NWFP has
been supported through the provision of anti-tuberculosis drugs, and transport for District TB
officers. Project inputs to the Expanded Program of Imrnmunization (EPI) include procurement of
over a million syringes and construction of an EPI centre in NWFP. In addition, 1675 staff have
been trained in key areas of CDC.
Health Education: In NWFP the project has established a Health and Nutrition Education
(H&NE) Cell at the provincial level, created 15 positions of H & NE officers at the district level,
provided 15 vehicles to district staff and constructed and equipped a Health and Nutrition
Resource Centre. A mass media campaign was launched in the province, which focussed on
health and nutrition of pregnant, lactating women and adolescent girls, family planning, care of
newborn, nutritional disorders and emerging topics such as harmful effects of tobacco use. The
Health and Nutrition Program has established linkages with the Department of Education and
NGOs. Training has been provided to 8000 participants who apart from health personnel include
4465 members of NGOs/CBOs and 1265 schoolteachers. Considerable efforts were made
although at a late stage of the project to develop closer links with the Lady Health Workers
Program. Weekly health education sessions were held at the community level in collaboration with
the Lady Health Workers and Village Health Committees. A total of 280 such sessions were held
during the last six months of the project.
In Sindh the health education program was relatively modest. Project inputs included training of
nearly 1300 health personnel, and health education sessions in AFA facilities.
However, in neither province were health education interventions based on pre-testing of
messages or on research on health related behaviour in catchment areas nor was any effort made
to evaluate the impact of the program. A qualitative assessment of over 90 communities in rural
Sindh undertaken as part of the project evaluation revealed the prevalence of harmful traditional
beliefs and practices particularly related to nutrition of pregnant women and new born children.
Among government providers LHWs were the rnain source of health education for rural women.
Community Involvement: Following project restructuring, pilots to promote community
involvement through establishment of Village Health Committees (VHCs) were implemented in
both provinces. The initiative was relatively successfully in NWFP while achievements were
limnited in Sindh. Administrative and financial procedures regarding VHCs were formnally notified
in NWFP and project resources were channeled to the community groups on a matching grant
basis. Of the 28 VHCs established 22 generated substantial resources through voluntary
contributions from the community which were mainly used for repair and maintenance of physical
infrastructure and to a lesser extent on purchase of emergency drugs. Some problems have also
emerged particularly related to selection of VHC members, and in a few cases strained relations
-9-



between health staff and VHCs were observed in the field. These difficulties although partly
reflecting inadequate training of both the health staff and VHC members were to a large extent
inevitable in a new endeavour which would require time to mature. However due to lack of
government commitmnent the sustainability of this initiative is unlikely in both provinces.
The VHCs in Sindh were largely ineffective and despite considerable technical assistance from the
Aga Khan University only 10 of 48 were fumctional. The limited achievements can be attributed to
lack of incentives for formation of these organizations and the social context of rural Sindh
characterized by greater disparities in social and economic status.
Component 2: StaffDevelopment
In-service training: A total of 25 Health Development Centres have been established in the two
provinces to institute staff and management development, health sector research and monitoring
and evaluation. . The centres are adequately staffed, furnished, equipped with teaching aids and
transport and fully functional in their new buildings. The primary focus of activities has been on
in-service training. A total of 29 curricula in Sindh and 15 curricula in NWFP have been
developed. The centres have contributed to the training of over 15000 staff over project life
meeting 86 and 80 percent of planned targets in NWFP and Sindh respectively. Training has been
provided in a variety of areas including health planning and management, family planning, health
and nutrition education, laboratory techniques, and community development.
Whereas achievements in in-service training have been impressive, insufficient attention has been
paid, particularly in NWFP, to reinforcing learning in the field through supportive supervision and
monitoring. Coordination between the network of Health Development Centres and the
Directorate has remained weak and consequently the envisaged linkages between training and
service delivery have not been fully developed. In Sindh under the AFA greater efforts were made
to integrate training with supportive supervision with the involvement of district managers.
However, the degree of involvement of District Health Officers (DHOs) has been driven by
individual initiative and remains considerably short of a systematic response.
The capacity for health systems research has not been fully developed. However some
operational research has been undertaken by Health Development Centres in NWFP including
surveys on nutrition, water and sanitation and training needs assessment. In Sindh the centres in
collaboration with the Aga Khan University conducted a facility-based evaluation of project
interventions.
Increasing Pre-Service Training Capacity for Female Paramedics: The project has expanded
training capacity of female paramedics in both provinces. In NWFP three existing nurse and
paramedical schools have been rehabilitated and a new combined nurse cum paramedical school
has been constructed. The schools have been provided with furniture, equipment, teaching aids
and vehicles in addition to hostel facilities. The project has also provided stipends for 250 student
nurses for a period of two years. These measures have lead to a 50 percent increase in enrolment
in nursing schools.
- 10-



In Sindh a postgraduate nursing college has been constructed and made functional. Quality and
availability of nurse tutors has been enhanced though postgraduate fellowships for 27 nurses. In
addition, 57 nurselLHV tutors have received in-service training in Teaching Learning Techniques.
Incentives and Job Enhancement Programs for Female Paramedics: In Sindh as a result of
the policy adopted in 1998 of reserving seats in public health schools the representation of
students from less developed parts of the province has risen from 11 percent to more than half of
total enrollments. The relocation of the public health school from Hyderabad to Sukkur has made
the training facility more accessible to girls frorn remote areas.
The Sindh Government has also begun implementation of an incentive package for female
paramedics which includes: a 40 percent increase in allowance of female paramedics working in
hard areas; enhancement of travelling and various other allowances; and increased progression in
their career paths. The career structure of female paramedics and nurses is well developed in
NWFP.
Considerable progress has been made towards rationalizing the female paramedic group through
amalgamation of various cadres. As a result four Female Health Technician Schools have been
converted into Public Health Schools. A total of 262 Female Health Technicians (FHTs) have
received the requisite six months training in midwifery and are now eligible to qualify as Lady
Health Visitors (LHVs).
Component 3: Management and Organization Development
Management Training: Systematic management training has been introduced through the
network of Health Development Centres. A total of 2089 staff has been trained in management
and supervisory techniques.
Monitoring, Information and Financial Systems: The Health Management Information System
(HMIS) is well established in both provinces. The project has financed computers and peripheral,
HMIS instruments and training of a large number of health personnel. The HMIS reporting rate
has improved markedly in NWFP from 16 percent in 1996 to 75 percent in 1999 while in Sindh
the HMIS reporting rate has steadily progressed from 70 percent to 87 percent over the same
period. Some efforts were made in Sindh to promote use of HMIS as a management tool
including development of a curriculum and training of 296 district managers and supervisors.
However, the capacity of financial monitoring and management remained weak particularly in
Sindh. An independent special review of accounts were carried out in 1998 and had indicated
serious financial irregularities. Both provinces prepared and began implementation of plans of
action to strengthen financial management whereby weaknesses in the financial management and
procurement systems were identified and rectified. This plan was reviewed by Bank's FMSs,
improvements suggested and monitored regularly. As a result, financial systems were working
satisfactorily in the last year of the project.
- 11 -



Overseas Training: The project has contributed substantially to building capacity of the
Department of Health through an extensive program of overseas training. Health staff has availed
of 61 postgraduate fellowships in addition to 44 short-term training courses in areas such as
health financing, information management and hospital management.
Decentralization of Health Services: Three major steps have been taken by the Department of
Health in NWFP towards decentralization of health services: (i) A health task force was
established which has prepared a health strategy supporting the autonomy of hospitals and
establishment of district governments; (ii) An Autonomy Bill was enacted in 1999 to decentralize
tertiary hospitals and district health systems in the province; and (iii) Health Sector Reform Unit
was created under the Secretary Health to guide the reform process. The project has contributed
to these efforts through capacity development.
In Sindh preparatory work was undertaken for establishing District Health Management Teams
(DHMT) in 5 districts including development of a curriculum and training of 629 personnel. The
initiative was abandoned with the induction of a new government in 1995.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has developed institutional capacity through several interventions. A network of 25
Health Development Centres has been established in both provinces, which has instituted
in-service technical training, health and nutrition education and management development. A
basis has also been set for the development of female professionals through expansion of
pre-service training capacity including the setting up of a nursing college, and career enhancement
programs. Project resources for foreign training have successfully developed a critical mass of
public health specialists who are deployed in appropriate positions. In NWFP, these staff played a
key role in preparing a strategy for health sector reforms with wide participation of concerned
stakeholders. In addition a health management information system is now fully functional in both
provinces.
The project through technical assistance and on-the-job experience has also enhanced skills in
procurement and financial management, particularly in Sindh, which can be effectively used in
future programs.
At the same time major challenges remain to realize the full potential of the institutional
infrastructure established under the project. The network of Health Development Centres while
established as an in-service training unit require further efforts to fulfil its envisaged role of
strengthening health planning and management, monitoring and evaluation and developing
capacity for health systems research. While the HMIS is functional a culture of informed decision
making has yet to evolve and needs to be developed at all levels including the facility level.
- 12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
DFID financing which was supporting the FATA component of the project was suspended in July
1996, restored in March 1999 and suspended again in October 1999 following the change of
government. Consequently the FATA component received little support during the last three
years of the project which adversely affected the implementation of project activities in the area.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was implemented in an environment of weak governance reflected in staff absenteeism
and political interference in personnel management particularly staff transfers. There were four
changes in governments and the induction of each new government was associated with large
scale staff transfers at all levels. Province wide bans on recruitment were frequently in place.
These problems were systemic and cut across sectors and provinces but were more pronounced in
Sindh.
In the later stages of the project, availability of counterpart ftmds was a problem in Sindh due to a
sharp deterioration in the fiscal situation of the province. As a result there were delays in the
procurement of goods, the pace of construction slowed down and some planned training activities
were curtailed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation was critically affected by managerial inefficiencies attributable to generic
problems of delays in staffing, failure to appoint qualified staff and low level of oversight through
project steering and technical committees. The Project Coordination Units (PCUs) with few
exceptions were staffed entirely with doctors and lacked expertise in key areas of procurement
and management as well as full time qualified accountants in the case of Sindh. There was a lack
of understanding of IDA procedures further compounded by rapid turnover of project directors.
Project Steering and Technical Committees met infrequently and as a result timely action was not
taken to resolve bottlenecks and key decisions were kept pending.
Poor management was reflected in financial mismanagement in Sindh, inordinate delays in
initiating procurement of civil works in NWFP, weak coordination with the Department of Civil
Works (C & W) and of Population Welfare in both provinces. There was limited integration of
project activities with the Directorate of Health and consequently the involvement of relevant line
managers in implementation was minimal.
Most of these problems were overcome towards the later years of the project as the PCU gained
experience, meeting of project committees became more regular and in the case of Sindh effective
use was made of technical assistance in key areas of procurement and financial management.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$62.93 million of which US$45 million was
to be financed by IDA, US$2.8 million by a DFID grant, US$ 1.0 million by a SCF grant and
US$14.1 million by the Government of Pakistan.
At the time of closing of the IDA Credit (April 30, 2000), project expenditures were US$39.3
- 13 -



million amounting to 62 percent of appraisal estimates of total project costs. The total project
expenditure was financed as follows: government contribution of US$8.7 million; IDA credit,
US$28.1 million; DFID grant, US$2.1 million; and SCF grant, US$0.4 million.
The difference between appraisal and actual project costs are attributable to: restructuring of the
project in 1997; slower than expected pace of implementation in Sindh subsequent to project
restructuring; and exchange rate related savings.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability has been rated "Likely".
The iising trend in contraceptive prevalence rate and antenatal care is likely to continue with the
improved availability of female paramedics and planned expansion of the program of community
based LHWs. In Sindh the policy of reserving seats in public health schools for candidates from
less developed parts of the province will address regional imbalances in female staffing in the
coming years. A plan for phased recruitment as local girls become available has been agreed under
the SAPP II.
MCH, Family Planning, EPI and TB DOTS are among core priority areas in the health sector and
will continue to be supported through the Social Action Program. Increased government
commitment to strengthening communicable disease control is further demonstrated in the current
development of a national TB Control Program and of strategic plans for strengthening EPI and
HIV-AIDs.
Measures have been taken towards sustainability of the Health Development Centres created by
the project, which are elaborated in Section 6.2.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The operational costs of the Health Development Centres and the posts of Health and Nutrition
Education Officers have been transferred to the regular budget. The PHDC and PHSA have been
officially notified as coordinating agencies for all in-service training. In the case of NWFP
paramedic training has also been placed under the financial and administrative control of the
Provincial Health Services Academy. Sustainability will be further strengthened through planned
collaboration with local and international institutions. However, inadequate allocations of
non-salary budgets of these institutions remain a source of concern.
The Bank under SAPP II will continue to monitor improvement in MCH services, availability of
female paramedics, quality of in-service training, and use of HMIS for informed decision making.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted in Section 3.5 the project design while consistent with the Bank's strategy and
- 14 -



government policy was overly ambitious in relation to management and technical capacity of the
departments of health at the time.
The project design incorporated lessons from earlier IDA lending in the population and education
sectors as well as the experience of health projects of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and
United States Agency for International Development (USAID). These included the importance of
having project implementation staff of sufficient seniority in position, not creating parallel
hierarchies and working through the existing system and simplifying project design as far as
possible without compromising technical standards. The experience of the project suggests that
most of these remained key constraints to implementation.
The design also did not give sufficient attention to developing an adequate financial management
and procurement capacity and the risks to project objectives of broader governance issues of
political interference and frequent changes in department and project leadership. A strategic
framework to deal with complex organizational issues related to integration of vertical programs
and decentralization was also lacking.
Inadequate readiness for implementation was also reflected in the lack of a detailed work plan for
the first year. In addition none of the land sites had been acquired. The delay of nearly three
years in acquiring land and obtaining approval of detailed construction drawings was a major
source of slow implementation in the initial years of the project. Further, key staff for
coordinating project activities were not on board at the time of project effectiveness for instance
the project director in Sindh was appointed on a part time basis.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision missions with an appropriate range of expertise were undertaken biannually with
participation of co-financiers. The missions reached agreement with implementing agencies to
resolve bottlenecks to project implementation. For instance the problem of slow pace of
construction was resolved through assigning the remaining works to a private construction firm in
Sindh and to another government agency in NWFP. Agreement on several other critical actions
were reached with the Departments which led to a greater focus on qualitative inputs, reducing
gender imbalances in staffing and increased coordination with Department of Population Welfare
and the Lady Health Workers Program.
The project was restructured in 1997 to bring it in line with the institutional capacity. While the
restructuring reduced the scope of some project components at the same time it included new
activities on decentralization and community participation, which were ambitious and labour
intensive. The restructuring mission's assessment of the feasibility of these interventions was
unrealistic given past experience under SAPP and the project which indicated little demonstrated
commitment or capacity for these activities.
The project was at risk for one year prior to restructuring and then again during the first half of
1998 due to concerns related to the slow place of implementation. An independent assessment of
the service delivery and human resource components was undertaken in both provinces in1998
with the objective of identifying implementation bottlenecks and suggesting remedial measures to
overcome them. The findings of these reviews were discussed with the Department of Health in
- 15 -



each province. In addition an evaluation of the NWPF component was undertaken at the end of
the project.
The supervision of fiduciary aspects received greater attention following the introduction of
OP/BP 10.02, which set more rigorous standards for financial management of Bank operations.
Two rounds of ex-post and end-use audits were conducted through specialized audit firms.
Finance management specialists were regularly included in supervision missions. The Bank's
finance management staff provided valuable assistance to the Departments of Health, particularly
in Sindh, in developing action plans to rectify deficiencies in financial management.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance, based on the restructured project, is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Departments of Health were fully involved in the preparatory phase of the project. A draft of
the government's planning document (PC 1) was completed at appraisal. Project Steering
Committees and the Project Coordination Units were established prior to appraisal.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance was mixed. The project was implemented in an environment of weak
governance as elaborated in Section 5.2. In the later stages performance improved in both
provinces most remarkably in NWFP. The project received strong support from the political
leadership of the province; competent senior managers were appointed and remained in position
and timely release of counterpart funds was ensured. In Sindh, despite shortfalls of counterpart
funds and frequent changes of Secretaries the project made steady progress. This was possible
due to continuity of a team of mid-level managers, a strong policy to curb transfers of facility
based staff, and appropriate deployment of trained personnel.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies varied over the life of the project, across provinces
and among components. The pace of implementation was extremely slow in the early years but
picked up significantly in the later part of the project in both provinces but most notably in NWFP
. As a result the project has contributed significantly to improvement in MCH/FP indicators,
instituted in service training, enhanced the capacity for pre-service training of female paramedics,
established close coordination with the Departments of Population Welfare and the Lady Health
Workers Program and strengthened the Health Management Information System. Additionally
despite an extremely slow start it has successfully completed the planned procurements including
of civil works all of which with a few exceptions are now fully functional. Further, the Sindh
government took actions to remedy the deficiencies in the financial management system and
successfully strengthened the financial management Nevertheless, project inputs would have led
to considerably better results had implementation not been constrained due to systemic problems
of frequent transfers of key staff, weak management and limited involvement of district managers
in project activities. Therefore, on balance the performance of the implementing agency is rated as
marginally satisfactory.
In the initial years of project life the pace of implementation was severely constrained due to
- 16 -



limitations of management detailed in section 5.3. Performance was weaker in NWFP than in
Sindh. Poor planning and management in the province was reflected in a three-year delay in
initiating procurement of civil works while project funding for drugs, equipment and services
remained unutilized during the first five years of project life.
In the early years the key achievements of the project in NWFP was the satisfactory functioning of
the in-service training program and recruitment of a large number (more than three hundred)
female paramedics. Continuing education activities were also on track in Sindh and procurement
of goods and civil works was relatively more advanced.
Following the project's restructuring implementation picked up in both provinces but the recovery
was especially impressive in NWFP. Personal attention by top management was key to resolving
long pending bottlenecks, improving intradepartmental collaboration and mainstreaming project
activities. The HMIS was made functional, a mass media campaign on health education was
launched, availability of contraceptives rose and physical progress picked up rapidly. In Sindh
while frequent changes at the highest administrative level remained a problem, continuity was
maintained of mid-level managers who were ably supported by technical assistance in areas of
procurement, financial management and MCH.
Procurement: Inadequate procurement capacity, particularly in the early stages of the project and
lengthy administrative and clearance procedures contributed to slow implementation. These
factors also contributed towards inadequate compliance with agreed procurement procedures,
which resulted in misprocurement and cancellation of IDA proceeds allocated for the purchase of
microscopes in NWFP. Some deviations from agreed procedures were also noted in Sindh in the
procurement of civil works, which were subsequently rectified.
Financial management issues: Financial management was not addressed at appraisal. Guidelines on
the Bank's financial reporting formats were also provided at a very late stage in the project.
Financial management capacity was weak particularly in Sindh where the PCU lacked a fully
qualified accountant. The Auditor General's report for fiscal year 1996 and 1997 and an
independent special review report of project accounts commissioned by the Bank identified
serious financial irregularities in Sindh and weak financial management in both provinces. The
government was requested to refund the ineligible expenditures financed by IDA of $1.23 million
and the special account was suspended till the deficiencies were rectified. The Sindh Health
Department appointed a qualified accounting staff, engaged technical assistance and in
consultation with the Bank's financial management specialists developed an action plan to
strengthen financial management. The plan included measures to ensure adequate financial
controls and adoption of sound practices in project related functions including procurement and
record keeping. The refund to IDA was made and on satisfactory implementation of the plan the
special account was restored. Financial Management Action Plans have greatly helped not only in
setting things right but also in enhancing capacity of the project staff.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance, based on the restructured project, is rated marginally satisfactory.
- 17 -



8. Lessons Learned
The experience of the Area Focus Approach confirmed the critical importance of availability of
female paramedics and supportive supervision to improving performance of first level care
facilities. The policy of training and eventual recruitment of local girls adopted by the Sindh
government is a sustainable solution to the problem of regional shortages of female staff. It not
only addresses multiple constraints including housing and security concerns to the retention of
female personnel but also provides an element of accountability to the community.
The AFA pilot has also underlined the need of training TBAs and linking them to the primary
health system. Births in rural Pakistan predominantly (87 percent) take place at home mainly by
traditional birth attendants. Given the limited change over the past few decades this trend is likely
to continue in the medium term. A field based assessment in Sindh found the delivery practices of
TBAs highly unsanitary and often life threatening. While the utility of TBA training has been
questioned internationally and in Pakistan, the pilot has demonstrated that the key problem of
follow up of trained TBAs can be resolved through establishing linkages with community based
Lady Health Workers under the supervision of female paramedics.
Supply side provisions need to be matched by an equal emphasis on promoting change in health
behaviour particularly through community based health education programs. While some efforts
have been made in the project, considerable potential exists for increasing collaboration between
the Health Education and Nutrition units, existing NGOs and CBOs as well as the Lady Health
Workers program whose outreach functions include delivering health education messages to
women in their communities. Further, research to deepen understanding of beliefs and traditional
practices regarding health and illness in a variety of contexts is essential to designing effective
programs and strategies for delivering them. Communication and counseling skills also need to be
given higher priority in in-service training programs.
Active involvement of district management is crucial to effective implementation and needs to be
developed early in the project preparation stage.
Procurement and Financial Management
Carefil assessment of financial management and procurement capacity of implementing agencies
needs to be undertaken during project preparation. Measures for establishing requisite capacity
should be specified and adopted prior to appraisal. Consideration of the financial management
issues needs to be an integral component of the Bank's continuous supervision.
Procurement plans should be agreed by appraisal and key procurement activities planned for the
first year should be at an advanced stage by negotiations to enable disbursements to conmmence
immediately upon effectiveness.
In situations such as in this project where a special review of accounts is required, ideally the
project's auditor (i.e., Auditor General of Pakistan in this case) should be responsible for
perforning such a review to ensure greater ownership of the process and findings. The scope
should be agreed jointly with the Bank.
- 18 -



Review of audit reports should be undertaken in close coordination between the Bank's financial
management and procurement staff since several procurement related issues are raised in these
reports.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower/implementing agencies evaluation is given in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The project was cofmanced by the DFID. DFID support will continue till June 2001 to allow for
completion of activities affected by the suspension of financing for nearly three years. DFID's comments on
the assessment of the FATA component are given in Annex 9.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
-19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome  I Impact Indicators:                 777___________________________    _________________________ ____
: Indlc*trlMatilx         Ir oJe*td in lam PSR                           A t al:atestEstmt
A. Improve heaflth status of the population   Increase antenatal coverage to 30 percent of Between 1991/92 and 1996/97 coverage of
within the provinces of Sindh and NWFP    pregnant women in catchment areas.  antenatal care has risen in rural NWFP from
with special emphasis on increasing                                         14 percent to 28 percent and in rural Sindh
availability and quality of matemal heaflth                                from 19 percent to 26 percent. (Pakistan
services including family planning                                          Demographic and Health Survey 1991/92;
Pakistan Family Planning and Fertility Survey
1996/97).
Make family planning available through all  In the early nineties family planning was not
primary health                       part of the primary health care package while
currently contraceptives are available in 75
percent and 50 percent of PHC facilities in
NWFP and Sindh respectively.
The number of family planning clients served
through the govemment's primary heaflth
system has doubled over the last three years
in both provinces (HMIS).
The CPR in rural areas has increased from 6
percent to 16 percent in NWFP and from 2
to 13 percent in Sindh during the period from
1990/91 to 1996/97. (Pakistan Demographic
and Health Survey 1991/92; Pakistan Family
Planning and Fertility Survey 1996/97).
Double the number of supervised deliveries  Reliable data on supervised deliveries is not
by qualified providers.               available. There is some increase from a very
low base in institutional deliveries. In rural
NWFP the proportion of fadility based births
has increased from 6 percent to 9 percent
and in rural Sindh from 6 percent to 8
percent. (Pakistan Demographic and Health
Survey 1991/92; Pakistan Family Planning
and Fertility Survey 1996/97).
Reduce infant mortality               Between 1996/97 and 1998/99 the infant
mortality rate (IMR) declined from 74 to 62 in
NWFP and from 99 to 95 in Sindh. The
national IMR in 1998/99 was 89 per 1000 live
births. (Pakistan Integrated Household
Survey 1998/99)
Improve availability of female paramedics    Over the duration of the project an additional
(target of 300 additional female paramedics). number of 769 female paramedics have been
posted more than double the envisaged
target. However, female staff shortages
persist in rural Sindh.
Strengthen referral systems and emergency  47 first level referral facilities have been
handling capacity at the district and  refurbished including installation of 23
sub-district level (target-refurbishing 56  ultrasound machines. In addition 10
- 20 -



operating facilities including provision of 82  casualty blocks have been constructed and
ambulances and 25 ultrasound machines).  96 ambulances provided. It is too early to
assess the impact of these interventions
which were completed in the later stage of
the project.
Promote community involvement in the
management of primary health care     The initiative was relatively successful in
NWFP where 22 out of a total of 28 VHCs
generated substantial resources through
their own efforts which were supplemented
by matching grants through project
resources. These funds were used for repair
and maintenance of physical infrastructure
and to a lesser extent for purchase of
emergency drugs. In Sindh only 10 of the 48
VHCs were functional and held regular
meetings.
2. Integration and expansion of CDC   Increase immunzation coverage of children  The proportion of fully immunized children
programs                                                                    (FIC) aged 12-23 months has increase from
42 to 51 percent in rural NWFP and from 36
to 77 percent in urban NWFP between
1990191 and 1998/99. Over the same period
FIC rates for rural Sindh rose from 5 to 27
percent and for urban parts of the province
from 33 to 60 percent. (PIHS).
Improve detection and management of  Surveillance activities have improved
malaria                              substantially in Sindh over the nineties.
There has been a 50 percent increase in
patients screened through blood test and the
number of confirmed cases has declined
reflected in a fall in the slide positivity rate
from 7 to 3 percent. Surveillance has
increased by 15 percent in NWFP and there
has been little change in the proportion of
confirmed cases.
Strengthen diagnostic capacities of rural    Diagnostic capacities have been enhanced
health facilities.                   through provision of laboratatory equipment
microscopes (400) and retraining and
conversion of staff (310 MHTs) to
multi-purpose lab technicians. In Sindh
these interventions have been effective in
establishing mini-laboratories in 75 percent
of rural facilities in AFA but have fallen short
of strengthening diagnostic capacities in
NWFP.
3. Building Institutional Capacity   Institutionalizing in-service training and  The target of the restructured project has
management development by establishing   been met. 25 Health Development Centres
Health Development Centres at different    have been established and are fully
levels.                              functional.
Development of an in-service management  Over 2000 staff have been trained
and supervisory training system (target  exceeding the planned target. Mobility of
training of 1230 primary care service  supervisory staff has been facilitated through
managers in both provinces).          the provision of 70 operational vehicles and
240 motorcycles.
- 21 -



Strengthening the Health Management  The HMIS reporting rate of FLCF has
Information System                   increased from 11 percent in 1992 to 75
percent in NWFP against a target of 80
percent and to 87 percent in Sindh against a
target of 90 percent.
Expansion of pre-service training capacity   Annual training capacity for nurses in NWFP
and career enhancement programs for  has increased by 50 percent over the past 3
female paramedics                    years. In NWFP 3 public health nursing
schools have been upgraded, a new school
established and stipends provided to student
nurses. Sindh has implemented an
incentive package for female paramedics
including special allowances for rural areas
and greater progression in career paths. In
additon a nursing college has been
established and is fully operational in the
province.
Introduction of a Health and Nutrition  31 additional positions of professional staff
Education Program                    have been created at the district level.
Training in Health and Nutrition Education
has been provided to over 3500 health
personnel. The H & NE program in NWFP
has established links with other relevant
govemment agencies such as the
Department of Education and the Lady
Health Workers' Program as well as with
non-govemmental organizations and the
private sector.
Output Indicators:
_____________________d                       0te     IA R                       Ac  itl  tt Estimate4
No. of Healh Development Centres/ training 25 centres funcional at the end of the  The target has been fully achieved.
schools constructed and functional.  project.
In-service training technical and managerial Train 12000 health personnel in technical   The target has been more than achieved
training                             and managerial skills.               through the training of over 15000 health
personnel of whom over 2000 have received
managerial and supervisory training.
% of of Basic Health Units (BHUs) and  Target reporting rate of 80 percent in NWFP 75 percent of PHC facilities in NWFP and 85
Rural Health Centres (RHCs) - reporting    and 90 percent in Sindh.        percent in Sindh are reporting through HMIS.
through Health Management Information
System (HMIS)
% of MCH Centres, BHUs and RHCs with   Target of 90 percent of primary health  85 percent of PHC facilities in NWFP and 52
female health staff                  facilities with female health staff.  in Sindh have a female staff.
% of PHC facilities having female staff and  Target of providing family planning services  75 percent of PHC facilities have female staff
providing contraceptives             through 80 percent of facilities with female  and are providing contraceptives in NWFP
staff.                               and the corresponding figure for Sindh is 50
percent.
Proportion of rural women who had given                                    Proportion of rural women availing of
birth in the last 3 years and went for prenatal                            antenatal care has risen from 19 to 26
consulation-                                                               percent in Sindh and from 14 to 28 percent
in NWFP.
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A ai        Aualatest  Percentage of
Estmate       Estrat        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ minlion    US$  million
1. Strengthening Health Services
Sindh                                             16.96          12.08            71
NWFP and FATA                                     12.61          11.13            88
2. Staff Development
Sindh                                              3.41           1.83            54
NWFP and FATA                                      2.49           2.06            83
3. Management and Organizational Development
Sindh                                              7.91           4.65            59
NWFP and FATA                                      9.08           7.43            82
Federal                                            0.22           0.10            45
Total Baseline Cost                                 52.68           39.28
Physical Contingencies                              3.13
Price Contingencies                                 7.12
Total Project Costs             62.93          39.28
Total Financing Required             62.93           39.28
roject Costs by Procurem   Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurment Metowd
Expenditure Category      lea          NCS               a       NLB.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         12.60         0.00         0.30         12.90
(0.00)      (11.40)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (11.40)
2. Goods                     11.00         2.50         3.50         0.50         17.50
(6.60)       (2.00)       (2.40)       (0.00)       (11.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         11.10        3.00         14.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (10.50)       (0.00)      (10.50)
4. Drugs and Materials       3.70          0.00         5.40         0.00         9.10
(3.20)       (0.00)       (2.30)       (0.00)        (5.50)
5. Salaries and Operating    0.00          0.00         7.70         0.00         7.70
Costs and Project           (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.00)       (0.00)        (5.00)
Preparation Facility
6. Project Coordination      0.00          0.00         1.60         0.00         1.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.60)       (0.00)        (1.60)
Total                     14.70         15.10        29.30         3.80        62.90
(9.80)      (13.40)       (21.80)       (0.00)      (45.00)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ProXuroia_t Mthod I
Expenditure Category         ICB                                          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            9.15          0.00            0.25          9.40
(0.00)         (8.27)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (8.27)
2. Goods                         4.83            5.21           0.30           0.42          10.76
(2.73)         (3.01)         (0.17)         (0.00)         (5.91)
3. Services                      0.00            0.10           7.09           1.78          8.97
(0.00)         (0.10)         (6.51)         (0.00)         (6.61)
4. Drugs and Materials           2.10            0.77           0.55           0.00          3.42
(1.45)         (0.45)         (0.32)         (0.00)         (2.22)
5. Salaries and Operating        0.00            0.00           5.18           0.00          5.18
Costs and Project               (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.52)         (0.00)        (3.52)
Preparation Facility
6. Project Coordination          0.00            0.00           1.55           0.00           1.55
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.55)         (0.00)         (1.55)
Total                         6.93           15.23          14.67           2.45          39.28
(4.18)        (11.83)        (12.07)         (0.00)        (28.08)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Category of Expenditure (in US$ million equivalent)
Category of Expenditure      AppraisalEstimate                 *I ttEW*KIU*ta           -       -      -
IDA :ovt.          C10t        WA        Ge: vt.   'CoP      iDA   GOvt.  GoP.
Civil Works               11.40      1.30      0.20      8.27       0.88       0.30    72.5   67.7   150.0
Equipment, Furniure &     11.00      5.90      0.50      5.91       4.43       0.40    53.7   75.1   80.0
Vehicles
Drugs & Material          5.40       3.60      0.00      2.22       1.21       1.00    41.1   33.6   0.0
Consultant, Training/Fd.  10.30     0.50       3.10      6.61       0.40       0.80    64.2   80.0   25.8
MatslF.ships
Incremental & Operating   5.10      2.80       0.00      3.42       1.77       0.00    67.1   63.2   0.0
Costs
Project Management        1.60      0.00       0.00       1.55      0.00       0.00    96.9    0.0    0.0
P. Prep. Facility         0.20      0.00       0.00      0.10       0.00       0.00    50.0   0.0    0.0
Total                    45.00      14.10      3.80      28.08      8.69       2.50    62.4   61.6   65.8
-24-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal or for the ICR.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Inmplementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification                2   Mission Leader, Economist
01/21/1989 - 02/08/1989
Preparation                   4   Mission Leader, Manpower and
05/12/1989 - 06/01/1989            Training Specialist (consultant),
Public Health and Population
Specialist, Economist
09/25/1989 - 10/18/1989       3   Mission Leader, Public Health
and Population Specialist,
Economist
03/05/1990 - 03/22/1990       5   Mission Leader, Manpower and
Training Specialist (consultant),
Nutrition (consultant),
Paramedical training
(consultant), Economist
06/11/1990 - 07/02/1990       1   Mission Leader
Appraisal/Negotiation
Pre-appraisal                10   Mission Leader, Architect
08/21/1P990- 09/13/1990            (consultant) Public Health
and Population Specialist,
Health Planner, Paramedical
training (consultant),
Management and manpower
planning (counsultant),
Projects Adviser, Primary
Health Care, Nutrition
Specialist, Economist
Appraisal                     4   Mission Leader, Public Health
05/21/1992 - 06/10/1992            and Population Specialist,
Projects Adviser, Primary
Health Care
Negotiation                   6   Chairtnan of Negotiations, Legal
03/18/1991 - 03/21/1991            Councel, Disbursement Officer,
Projects Adviser, Primary
Health Care Specialist,
Operations Analyst
Supervision
06/13/1992 - 06/25/1992       6  Mission Leader, Project
(Was rated in Nos. "2")           Adviser, Health Planner,
Management Specialist,
Implementation Specialist,
Public Health Specialist
- 26 -



11/24/1992 - 12/08/1992       4  Mission Leader, Project Adviser,
(Was rated in Nos. "2")           Public Health Specialist,
Implementation Specialist
08/12/1993 - 08/19/1993       5  Architect, Health Planner, 2
(Was rated in Nos. "2")           Public Health Specialist,
Disbursement Officer
01/14/1994 - 02/13/1994       5  Architect, Health                     S                 HS
Planner/Ecnomist, 2 Public
Health Specialist, Disbursement
Officer
11/05/1994 - 11/24/1994       5  Mission Leader, MCH Specialist,       S                 S
Architect, 2 Public Health
Specialist (Consultant)
11/04/1995 - 11/30/1995       5  Mission Leader, 3 Public Health       U                 U
Specialist (Consultants), Health
Planner,
08/17/1996 - 08/31/1996       3  Mission Leader, Training              U                 U
Specialist, Finance Specialist
05/04/1997 - 06/11/1997      13  Mission Leader, Principal             S                 S
Implementation Specialist, 6 task
managers, 5 consultants
11/17/1997 - 12/17/1997       3  Mission Leader, Health                U                 U
Economist, Reproductive Health
Specialist
04/20/1998 - 05/14/1998       4  Mission Leader, Architect,            U                  S
Public Health specialist, Finance
Specialist
11/17/1998 - 12/02/1998       5  Mission Leader, Architect,            S                 S
Public Health specialist,
Reproductive Health Specialist,
Finance Specialist
05/31/1999 - 06/11/1999       5  Mission Leader, Public Health         S                  S
specialist, Reproductive Health
Specialist, Management
Specialist, Finance Specialist
S                 S
ICR
11/29/1999 - 12/10/1999       6   Mission Leader, Public               S                 S
Health Specialist,
Reproductive Health
Specialist, Management
Specialist, Disbursement
Officer, Finance
Management Specialist
- 27 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
X;__ ___ __ _:__  No. Staff weeks                   US$ (,(00)
Identification/Preparation                          44.2                               132.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                              124.3                               373.0
Supervision                                        187.0                               467.7
ICR                                                 16 5                                25.0
Total     __   __  _  __  __  _  _372___         _  __  _0  _  __   _998.1
Source: Project details at a glance as of 09/18/00.
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
0 Financial                              OH OSUOM ON ONA
z Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Gender                           OH *SUOM ON ONA
0 Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
X Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
EZOther (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
X Lending                                            OHS OS *U OHU
3 Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
 Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
X Preparation                                        OHS OS  *  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
N Implementation agency performance                  O HS  S     0  U  0 HU
N Overall                                            OHS *@S O U O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aga Khan University, Department of Community Health Sciences, Family Health Project
Sindh: Project Assessment Report, April, 2000.
2. Anjum Asim Shahid and Co., Final Ex-post Review and End-use Checks Report for Family
Health I Project, 1998.
3. Anjam AsiL Shahid and Co., Final Ex-post Review and End-use Checks Reportfor Family
Health I Project, November 1999.
4. Department of Health, Sindh, HMIS Report, various issue
5. Department of Health, NWVFP, HMIS Report, various issue
6. Federal Bureau of Statistics, Government of Pakistan, Pakistan Integrated Household Survey,
various issues
7. IDA. Staff Appraisal Report, Family Health Project, Pakistan. April 1991.
8. IDA. Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2240-PAK, July 1991.
9. IDA. Project Agreement, Credit Number 2240-PAK, July 1991.
10. IDA. Restructuring/Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, May 2 - 24, 1997.
11. IDA. ICR Mission Report, November 29 - December 10, 1999.
12. Ilyas, Muhammad. Ex-post Review of Goods, Family Health Project, August 1997.
13. Mahmud, Asif. Ex-post Review of Civil Works, Family Health Project, August 1997.
14. National Institute of Population Studies/Centre for Population Studies,London School of
Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Pakistan Fertility and Family Planning Survey, 1996/97
December 1998.
15. National Institute of Population Studies, Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey, 1990/91,
July 1992.
16. Sidat Hyder Morshad Associates(Pvt.) Limited. Family Health Project I, Sindh: Special
Review of Accounts (July 1995 to December 1997).
17. Sidat Hyder Morshad Associates(Pvt.) Limited. Family Health Project I, NWFP: Special
Review of Accounts (July 1995 to December 1997).
18. Siddiqi, S. and F. Jalil, Review of Health Services Strengthening Component of Family Health
Project, NWFP, August 1998.
19. Siddiqi, S. and F. Jalil, Review of Health Services Strengthening Component of Family Health
Project, Sindh, August 1998.
20. Siddiqi, S. and F. Jalil, Review of Human Development Component of Family Health Project,
NWFP, August 1998.
21. Siddiqi, S. and F. Jalil, Review of Human Development Component of Family Health Project,
Sindh, August 1998.
22. Siddiqi, S., Ali, N., Zaidi, R.M., Amjad, M., and T. Masud, Evaluation of the Family Health
Project, NWFP, March 2000.
- 31 -



Annex 8. Borrower/Implementing Agencies' Contribution to the ICR
FAMILY HEALTH I PROJECT
EVALUATION REPORT BY DoH SINDH
INTRODUCTION
The overall goal of the Family Health Project Sindh was to strengthen the existing Primary
Health Care System in providing more effective and efficient services, particularly in the field of
MCH including Family Planning & Communicable Diseases Control. The specific objective of
Project includes:
1.    To improve Health Status of population within the Project Area with special emphasis on
increasing availability/quality of MCH Services including Family Planning, thereby
reducing infant / child mortality and morbidity.
2.    To improve quality and integration of Primary Health Care Services particularly for the
Communicable Disease Control and thereby enhance the effectiveness of existing Health
Care Network especially for children.
3     to build the institutional capacity to realize the above objectives and set the stage for
future intervention.
IMPLEMENTATION STATUS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Overall performance of the project has been fairly satisfactory. However, project management
faced many problems in implementation of activities due to factors outside the control of the
Department of Health. There has been fair amount of success in human resource development,
health service strengthening and institutional development. The progress would give future
directions for further developments in the health sector in Sindh. FHP was a first project of such
complex nature and size in the health sector of the province, for which management skills and
capacity was limited.
I Human Resource Development (HRD)
a. In-Service Training
A system of training has been developed and in place for in-service training including
establishment of Provincial Healt4 Development Centers (PHDC) at provincial level and 16
DHDCs at district level. The Project supported development of 29 curricula and trained more
than eleven thousand health staff in 432 workshops. This included: management (1175 persons
trained), Nutrition (630 persons trained in 41 training's), health education (1297 persons in 68
training's), Health systems research (68 persons trained in 5 training's), In-service training's
(241 with 3283 persons trained), development of Village Health Committees (190 persons),
HMIS (133 training's and trained 3779 persons) and use of E-mail training's (59 persons). In
addition, 90 persons were trained in short courses and 2 in Masters in Epidemiology inside the
country. Although, a system of training has been established it needs further development. The
initial training was planned without undertaking specific need assessment and had little emphasis
on skill development except in management and family planning.
- 32 -



b. Overseas Training
In overseas training, 22 doctors completed Masters, 15 Nurses completed bachelor's degree from
Australia and one PhD sponsored doctor is still completing research in England. In addition 3
Doctors went on short courses abroad. After completing their training, majority of the staff is
working in the departmnent. These staff would provide leadership for development of future
interventions in the health sector.
c. Enhancing Training Capacity for Female Paramedics
The project provided support for enhancing training capacity for female paramedics. This
included:
82 Female Health Technicians were given 6 months training in Midwifery at Public Health
Schools to qualify to become Lady Health Visitors. This was in line with the decision to merge
two cadres of Female Health Technicians and Lady health Visitors.
298 Nurses/LHVs/FHTs were given training in Primary Health Care and 57 in teaching and
learning techniques. Moreover, 89 LHVs/FHTs have been trained in teaching learning technique
and TBA training program.
FHT School at Hyderabad has been converted to PHS and shifted to Sukkur to address
regional imbalances of Female Health staff.
A college of Nursing has been constructed and operationalized at Jamshoro. The project also
supported development of its curriculum and training of faculty of the college through short and
long-term training's - 25 Nurses were sent for Postgraduate Studies (10 at the Aga Khan
University and 15 to Australia).
Job Description of all cadres of Health personnel's have been reviewed by PHDC & Job
Description of Female Health Staff (Service providers and Supervisors) has been revised
according to the Primary Health Care System. Further more career development courses for
Female Paramedics have been identified and 24 senior LHVs promoted and posted as Assistant
Inspectress of Health (AIH). Sixty percent of Senior Female Paramedics have been given 40%
increase in their salary as an incentive to work in rural areas.
Enrollment of rural girls with high secondary school certificate and Lady Health Workers as
trainee Lady Health Visitors and Midwife was approved by the Pakistan Nursing Society. In
coordination, with the Lady Health Workers Program, these girls & LHWs are being trained at
Public Health Schools.
2. Health Services Development:
a. MCH and Family Planning
The major developments supported by the project include:
Package of service delivery has been implemented in 106 Health Facilities of 21 Districts of
Sindh to develop comprehensive Primary Health Care System with referral facilities to improve
access and quality of services using integrated approach. This package includes provision of staff,
services and equipment/supplies/essential drugs in Area Focus Approach (AFA).
TBA training program and training along with follow-up has been completed at 16 RHCs /
- 33 -



BHUs in 10 districts of AFA. 75 MO/WMOs of AFA health facilities were given orientation in
TBA training program, whereas 9 WMOs / PMTs have been trained as Master Trainers and 72
LHVs / FHTs as TBA trainers. 218 LHWs and 192 TBAs have been trained at BHU / RHCs
level under TBA training program in 10 districts whereas 90 trained LHWs and 123 trained
TBAs have been linked to the Health Facilities. Also, 130000 TBA Kits were provided to the
Health Facilities.
857 Health facilities provided MCH-FP supplies including AFA. Furthermore 84 BHUs, and
21 RHCs & THQs provided labor room equipment for delivery facilities. Deliveries are being
conducted at BHU level in AFA
* Female Paramedics has been made available in most Health Facilities of AFA on transfer basis
and retained unto end of Program.
* MCH-FP Package has been developed and implemented and MCH-FP registers provided.
*  Functional Integration of EPI, Malaria and TB Workers has been interacted at BHU/RHC
level in AFA.
* Operation theater equipment have been provided to 21 RHC and 16 THQ along with training
of 51 Medical Officers trained in anesthesia and Women Medical Officer in Gynecology/Obstetric
Strengthening of emergency obstetrical care at RHC/THQ to support PHC Services. 11
ultrasound machines have been provided to 9 district hospitals and 2 other hospitals.
* 48 Village Health Committees formed in AFA Health Facilities and VHC members have been
trained at RHC level and one at BHU, in 16 district. Linkages between community & health
facilities established through LHWs and TBA.
723 Medics / Paramedics were given training in Family Planning whereas 242 Female
Paramedics and WMO have been trained in IUCD and 4 WMOs have been also trained in
surgical techniques. IUCD Kits has been supplied to all health facilities in AFA and mini-lap kits
to RHCs.
* A system of contraceptive supply has been established at all level in the Province, through the
Depot for drugs and medical supplies.
* The MCH unit at Directorate was strengthened and a monitoring supervising system for
MCH-FP activities established. One Deputy Director MCH posted at MCH directorate whereas
male Deputy Directors/Assistant Directors MCH at district level replaced by female medical
officers. Furthermore 5 vehicles supplied to Director MCH for supervising visits. In addition to
that Assistant District Coordinator Lady Health Workers Program deputed as MCH supervisor at
district level. Also, 24 senior LHVs have been posted as AIH at district/divisional level.
Inter-sectoral collaboration has been made with Population and Welfare Department of
Sindh.
Need assessment and baseline were conducted but not utilized properly, procurement was
mad according to standard list and delayed action was taken on need assessment report.
b. Referral System
EOC has been strengthened at RHC and THQ/DHQ.
723 Medics / Paramedics were given training in Family Planning whereas 242 Female
Paramedics and WMO have been trained in IUCD and 4 WMOs in surgical techniques.
Telephones provided to six facilities of AFA, however, communication system could not be
established in remaining, health facilities.
Strengthen emergency obstetrical care at RHC/THQ to support PHC Services. Referral
- 34 -



System Pilot Project prepared and implemented in District Khairpur, which needs further
patronization
Operation Theater equipment have been provided to 21 RHC and 16 THQ along with
training of 51 Medical Officers trained in anesthesia and Women Medical Officer in
Gynecology/obstetrics
46 Ambulances have been supplied to BHU, RHC and THQ to improve referral. However
referral between health facilities remained weak. Out of planned 97 ambulances, only 46
ambulances were procured and planned telephones and radio communication network was never
established.
c. Health Education and Community Involvement
* Health Education Units have been created and operationalised by deputing Health Education
Officers at PHDC/DHDC level. Two curricula on health education developed and trained 1297
health personal, while 18 posters of health education has been printed and handed over to
Provincial Health Education Cell at Director General Health Services (DGHS) Sindh. Also health
education session were conducted in AFA health facilities. But due to limited technical expertise
health behavior studies and mass media campaign could not be undertaken.
48 Village Health Committees formed in AFA health facilities and VHC members have been
trained at RHC/BHU in 16 district but committees could not be formed in remaining 58 health
facilities. Financial powers were supposed to be given to VHC but idea was dropped by GOS.
Linkages between community & Health Facilities established through LHWs and TBA under
TBA Training Program.
d. Communicable Disease Control
Curriculum for CDC multipurpose worker has been prepared and put to use. 29 Malaria
supervisors, EPI Vaccinators and BCG technicians have been trained as CDC Multipurpose
workers in AFA health facilities of Khairpur and Sukkur districts. 150 motorcycles have been
provided to Malaria supervisors.
Curriculum on Laboratory techniques for Multipurpose Laboratory Technicians has been
developed and put to use. 106 Malaria Microscopist and 96 Male Health Technicians have been
trained and converted as Multipurpose Laboratory Technicians in all AFA facilities.
Basic diagnostic facilities including 400 microscopes have been provided at RHC/BHU/THQ
level with the establishment and up gradation of diagnostic laboratories, where AFB, MP, URINE
SUGER and ALBUMIN test are being carried out. 41 workshops for laboratory training have
been conducted and trained 620 persons.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT:
a. PHDC/DHDCNetwork
PHDC complex has been constructed at Jamshoro, equipped as in-dependent training
institution for in-service at Provincial level.
16 DHDCs have been developed and equipped as in-dependent training institution for
in-service training at district level. 15 new DHDCs buildings have been constructed and are fully
functional.
Management Training has been provided to Divisional, District Managers, Supervisory Staff
- 35 -



and Medical Officer Incharge of FLCF. Supervising and monitoring tools for higher and mid level
managers have been developed and provided to the Director General, Health Services Sindh for
implementation.
PHDC/ DHDC Staff has been trained in teaching and learning and facilitation skills, health
system research, Data Management, and HMIS & Computer Training.
Management and planning at health facilities level remain poor in-spite of technical assistance
from PHDC/DHDC. There has been no progress in terms of management by objectives,
developing monthly or yearly work plans. District staff was reluctant to move for monitoring and
supervision.
b. Decentralization
In 1994, PHDC with the assistance of AKU initiated process of forming District Health
Management Teams (DHMT) in five districts (Mirpurkhas, Sanghar, Larkana, Sukkur and
Karachi South). However, due to development of District Management Boards, idea of DHMTs
could not be fully developed. Consequently, the potential of DHMTs as a tool for improving
management at the district level and community participation remained largely unfulfilled.
Drawing and disbursing powers were given to In charge medical officers of BHU/RHC by
GOS, however, the decision was taken back soon after its approval.
b. Health ManagementInformation System
HMIS has been implemented throughout the Province to enhance informed decision making. The
project trained 3779 health persons, including medics and paramedics and health managers for
data entry and computer skill. Moreover curriculum on use of information has been developed and
296 district manager /supervisors trained accordingly. In addition, HMIS instruments were
printed and supplied to the Provincial Coordinator for further distribution to health facilities.
Although project efforts improved quality of data but development of a culture of information use
for decision making still requires more efforts, time and continued technical and monitoring
support. Moreover, coordination was poor between PHDC and HMIS cell at DGHS throughout
the project life.
c. Technical Assistance
Technical assistance for human resource and management and organisational development
was provided satisfactorily by the Aga Khan University. The project also acquired services of
consultants for technical assistance in MCH and family planning services, accounts and
procurement. These augmented the efforts of the project management in achieving objectives.
Evaluation of the Sindh Government's Performance
a. Managerial Deficiencies
The project was virtually at standstill during time of restructuring of PC- I in May 1997, due
to lengthy process of approval from GOS and ECNEC.
Posting of untrained and inexperienced health managers as project directors and Incharge
DHDC resulted in slow implementation through out project life. This was further complicated by
frequent transfers of Health Secretaries, Project Directors and other essential staff slowing down
process of implementation.
- 36 -



Steering and Technical Committees were two forums, which were established for decision
making on implementation issues. However, only fourteen meetings were held during whole
period of project due to preoccupation of chainnan.
Implementation of activities of project was the responsibility of DGHS, Hyderabad through
line managers. The project coordinating unit was established at Karachi so required coordination
between implementation managers and project management was not developed and sense of
verticality prevailed among managers throughout project life and hampered pace of health service
development. However, cooperation was improved in later stage of the project.
Qualified accountant and procurement officers were not posted in early stages of project.
Furthermnore, consultants to provide technical assistance were made available by the World Bank,
in later stage.
PCU team was not trained in management in early period of the project and frequent transfers
led to poor planning and monitoring of activities throughout project life
b. Financial Constraints
Delayed releasing of counter part funding by government of Sindh, particularly numerous
queries from the finance department and AG Sindh office slowed implementation process.
Ban on female staff recruitment and postings was neither undertaken timely nor inn desired
places, which hampered health services development
Monitoring of AFA by DHO teams was not carried out regularly due to lack of ownership of
AFA approach.
Delayed posting of qualified returning scholars at DHDC and several centers are still posted
by untrained doctors.
Evaluation of Performance of the World Bank
The design of the project was over ambitious and not consistent with capability of heath
managers of the Government of Sindh. Also, the time frame given for project completion was not
sufficient.
Slow disbursement of withdrawal applications and stoppage of IDA funds for one year led to
delays and targets specially in training could not be achieved
Throughout project life, the World Bank had been insisting on utilization of funds not on
outcome or results except during the later half of the project
The World Bank provided support through consultants for streamlining the project
components and improving project performance in management, accounting, procurement and
health service development in last two year of project. If these were sent at initial stage,
maximum targets of project would have been achieved
The World Bank staff had been visiting the province for monitoring and giving future
directions regarding project objectives but certain decisions could not be carried out especially
posting of returning fellows, lifting of ban/ on female paramedic's recruitment and frequent
transfers from AFA.
LESSONS LEARNED
Objectives should not be ambitious. These should be consistent with management capacity of
Health Department.
*  Experienced staff should be posted in projects with project experience in the past and are not
- 37 -



transferred until the end of the project.
* The World Bank should give training in different project components to the managers
regarding management, financing and procurement, to avoid mis-management and to develop
coordination between the bank and Department of Health.
All Managers should be involved in planning process and held regular meetings to discuss
implementation of activities and to remove the bottleneck.
Monitoring and supervision of output indicators should be given emphasis.
* Timely release of the funds according to PC-I
Proposed Arrangement for Operation of Project Activities after its Closing With
Cooperation of the Bank / Sustainbility
The GOS has institutionalized service package for female paramedics, which will enhance
interest of Female Health Staff in rural areas.
* The conversion of female health technician school Hyderabad into public health school and its
shifting to Sukkur will be financed through regular budget and will enhance availability of LHVs
from rural areas and address some the regional imbalances.
* Notification issued by GOS regarding the nomination of Assistant District Coordinator
(female) to look after MCH task. This will strengthen the MCH component at District level.
The decision to select LHWS for LHV and Midwifery courses will be an added incentive for
female health workers in rural areas.
Training institutions ( College of Nursing, PHDC and DHDCs) have been put on regular
budget.
Experience of the Area Focus Approach will be replicated in whole districts, which were
included in Women's Health Project.
The HMIS and RHCs activities will be continued under PC-I of Monitoring & Evaluation and
capacity building of SAP- 1 1 Program.
* District Health Management Team concept will be continued in two districts, Dadu and
Khairpur under strengthening of district health system, SAP- 11 Program.
- 38 -



FAMILY HEALTH I PROJECT
EVALUATION REPORT BY THE NWFP HEALTH DEPARTMENT
1.    INTRODUCTION
The First Family Health Project of the Department of Health, Governnent of NWFP was
launched in July 1991, but due to certain procedural delays it commenced effectively on March
27, 1992. Its stipulated completion date was 31 December 1999 but the Project Coordination
Unit was extended upto 31st March 2000 to facilitate the proper winding up of the Project.
World Bank granted a selective extension for 04 months for purchase of equipment for Lady
Reading Hospital, Peshawar.
This was a joint project of the GOP and World Bank with considerable financial inputs from
donors such as DFID and SCF.
The Project undertook to fill a long standing gap between the Government's conventional system
of health care delivery and the basic primary health care needs of the population through
improved utilization of existing health facilities as well as developing target oriented new health
outlets (e.g. Reproductive Health) and support infrastructures by providing financial and technical
assistance as required.
2.    OBJECTIVES
2.1   LONG TERM OBJECTIVES
To improve the health status of the population within the province of NWFP / FATA.
2.2   IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVES
To improve the quality of PHC services and improve health indication.
*     To develop institutional capacity and strengthening of existing delivery system and set the
stage for future intervention.
3.    INSTITUTIONAL FRAM WORK AND EXECUTING AGENCY
ARRANGEMENTS
The Project was implemented by the DOH through the establishment of a separate "Project
Coordination Unit" headed by the Project Director.
Project Coordination Unit was overall responsible for financial disbursements, supervision and
monitoring of all Project components and liaison with Government and donors. Provincial
Health Services Academy (PHSA) is a technical institution with mandate of training and research.
Seven satellite divisional centers - Divisional Health Development Centers (DHDC's) are working
under the functional control of PHSA for this purpose. A health and nutrition cell at Director
General Health Services (DGHS) is another technical wing with its satellite units in fifteen
districts. This wing looks after nutrition and health education.
- 39 -



4.    FINANCIAL PROTOCOL
The Project maintained a strict protocol for financial transactions and audit procedures as detailed
below.
The FHP was authorized to maintain an assignment account in National Bank of Pakistan (NBP)
main branch Peshawar. All withdrawals are made on official treasury checks provided for the
purpose. All expenditure was incurred under prevailing financial rules and World Bank
guidelines. All claims received by the Project were directed to the concerned branches of PCU
i.e. procurements, establishments and accounts for scrutiny and afterwards admitted for payments.
These transactions were properly documented and their record is maintained in ledgers which
were audited from time to time by the Audit Teams of the Office of the Director General A.G.
Office, Provincial Inspection Team, World Bank Mission and DFID consultants.
Further more, the World Bank official carried out special "Surprise" reviews and mid term
reviews from time to time.
5.    PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
5.1 BACKGROUND
The donors declared the Project a sick Project during midterm review. This was because of the
poor progress in previously agreed - upon areas, brought about by reasons of slow
implementation. These were following:
Ambiguous Project Design and ill-defined line of command
Ambitious objectives/scope of work based on wrong assumptions
Delayed approval of policy decisions specially, civil works and related procurement
Frequent posting and transfers of Project Staff
Lack of flexibility within Government and, in some instances, with the donors
5.2   JUSTIFICATION FOR RESTRUCTURING
Restructuring of FHP-I (NWFP) was being done as part of overall re-structuring of social sector
portfolio with the aim to improve the Project implementation within the frame work of original
Project objectives and components. Steps were also taken to redress the issue of management
and governance and thereby improve Project Management and making it practicable in the
remaining Project life.
5.3  STEPS TAKEN TO RESOLVE MANAGEMENT ISSUES AND IMPROVE
IMPLEMENTATION
The steps taken to resolve management issues and improve implementation were:
a)  PIU was renamed as PCU and placed under DGHS along with PHDC in order to integrate
-40 -



Project activities with the Department of Health functions.
b)  Category - I powers were given to Project director and Cat. II to Deputy Director PHDC
and Deputy Director H & NE Cell.
c)  Three additional Officers were given to PCU to improve its capacity along with posting of
Officers trained under Family Health Project to relevant posts in the Project and DOH.
d)  Improvement in monitoring and supervision of the Project through regular monthly meetings
of Project steering Committee and Project technical Committee. In addition, divisional level
technical Committees were also constituted to monitor the Progress.
e)  All Policy decisions regarding Civil Works and other activities were also taken.
5.4 CHANGE IN SCOPE OF WORK
The change in scope of work in the Project components has been done on the basis of following
criteria mutually agreed between the govt. and donors [IDA];
1.    To consolidate/expand the activities which are progressing well and making it sustainable
in long run and linking it with SAPP-II policy strategy statement also e.g. HRD
component.
2.    To reduce the scope of work in the area which was over ambitious or was not feasible
from Technical/Administrative & financial point of view e.g. reduction in number of
DHDCs., and dropping of 2 LHV Schools.
3.    To reduce the activity where required keeping in view the implementation capacity of
DoH e.g. reduction in the Health Services development component to defined geographic
areas i.e. Area Focus Approach only.
4.    To add new initiative which are complementary not only to original Project objectives &
components but are also in line with SAPP-II policy strategy, objectives of 9th 5-Year
Plan and National Health Policy.
6.    COMPONENT WISE PROGRESS
The Project institutional strategy was to improve and strengthen the DOH's capacity to deliver a
modem and complete health care delivery package. For this purpose the Project concentrated on
following main areas of intervention.
Civil Works
Procurements
Area Focus Approach
Training
Research
Health Education & Nutrition
HMIS
Reproductive Health
6.1   CIVIL WORKS
- 41 -



Civil works was a major component of Family Health Project for which Rs.245.066 million had
been allocated in Revised PC-I. These civil works comprise of Nursing School, Nursing Hostels,
DHDCs, DHDCs Hostels, Casualty Blocks, Laboratory Blocks, Labor Suites and residences for
medical and paramedical staff etc. For implementation of these civil works, the World Bank
Standard Bidding Documents & Guidelines have been followed. These civil works are being
implemented through C&W and PP&H Departments. Payments were made to the Executing
Agency of line Departments and not to the contractors. There was reasonable delay in the start of
Civil Work because of strict requirements of World Bank and reluctancy of executing agencies to
accept the older rates. The details are annexed-I.
6.2 PROCUREMENT
Procurement was done using World Bank Procurement Guidelines. These include ICB, NCB and
Prudent Shopping. Procurement of hospital equipment, office equipment, furniture, teaching aid,
medicine have been completed. These were procured for all new buildings of PHSA, DHDCs,
Labour Suites, Casualty Blocks, Operation T heatres constructed under Family Health Project.
Equipment was also purchased for Gynae/Peads Block of Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar,
HMIS, Health & Nutrition Education Program, and AFA Health Facilities. Coding of all these
equipment has been done and circulated among all Health Institutions/Facilities.
6.3 AREA FOCUS APPROACH
6.3.1 Background
Area Focus approach were the service delivery component of Family Health Project which aimed
to develop model health facilities providing comprehensive, integrated Primary Health care
services linked with first and secondary referral centers with special emphasis on Reproductive
Health and communicable disease control services through community participation.
These centers were supposed to develop links with village health committee, community
reproductive health, preventive and promotive services through LHW's, TBA's, village health
workers, Malaria, Sanitary and EPI workers leading to the development of comprehensive and
integrated primary health care services and well established referral system.
Under the first phase of AFA, one RHC/CH with 4-5 BHU's in the catchment area was identified
for each District/Agency to develop them as model for that District/ Agency.
A total of 25 RHC's, 3 CH, 108 BHU's and 21 CDs were been identified.
The following steps have been taken under AFA.
1.  Need assessment of 157 Health facilities was completed.
2.  Benchmarks on Service delivery indicators established for all 157 units.
3.  Telephone installed at 19 RHCs / CH for strengthening of referral services.
4.  Ambulances, X-Ray plants provided to 20 RHC/CH by JICA where required, for
-42 -



provision of Transport for emergency and obstetric care.
5.  Minor repair completed at 15 RHCs/ CH for white wash, paint and repair of
windows, glasses etc.
6.  Staff deficiency removed through the internal postings and transfers and some of the
technical deficient staff recruited on contract basis (Seventeen persons recruited).
7.  50 % of staff under AFA trained through PHSA and DHDCs in HMIS, Family
Planning and first line management.
8.  150 Bicycles purchased and provided to Area Focal Units for strengthening
community participation and better communication.
9.  Signboards showing the available services at RHC/CH designed and prepared for 28
RHCs.
10. Equipment worth Rs. 20,000 purchased and supplied for each 150 health facilities.
11. Medicines, contraceptives and Micronutrient provided to AF units.
Besides these training were arranged for Laboratory Staff & Paramedics in DOTS Strategy of TB
Control Program. Their training modules were printed.
6.3.2 Village Health Committees
For ensuring community participation, village health committees were established at 28 RHC/CH.
Training imparted to all VHC members in NWFP and FATA.
Matching grants worth Rs.one million provided to VHCs and under the Public Private Partnership
a joint venture with NGO's started, where first installment of matching grant provided to them.
Evaluation/Audit of the first release completed. Next releases to these NGOs could not be made
due to audit observations, Project expiry and non-availability of funds.
6.3.3 Monitoring & Supervision
Area Focal Units were regularly monitored through monitoring indicators selected for AFA.
Quarterly analysis of indicators was done and feedback provided to health units.
Motorcycles were provided to District level supervisors of EPI, Malaria Sanitation and Leprosy
to facilitate supervision.
6.4  HEALTH & NUTRITION EDUCATION PROGRAM
Health & Nutrition Education Program was a new addition to the infrastructure of Health
Department. A Provincial cell and 15 District units were established. No construction was
involved in the setup of these units. These were established in Director General Health Office and
in DHOs offices respectively. Under the new initiative, an H&NE Resource Center has been
constructed in the PHSA premises. All these offices had been properly staffed, and necessary
equipment provided. The staff posts for these establishments have been created on regular side.
H&NE Program has completed the following tasks.
Training of Health Workers, extension workers of other department, Education
- 43 -



Department workers and NGOs.
Field Activities like School Education Program, Iodized Salt Monitoring, World Food
Program monitoring.
Conduction of Survey (Including Province wide Micro-nutrient survey on the basis of
which Vit.A drops
administration was included in NIDs).
Celebration of weeks and days of Health Importance.
Mass Health Education through Print and Electronic Media.
Development and Printing of Health Education Material.
Procurement and distribution of micronutrients to AFA Health Facilities.
Most of these activities were started and completed during the last two years of the Project.
6.5 HEALTH MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
HMIS was introduced under the auspices of Pakistan Child Survival Project from the resources of
USAID. The first phase of designing was completed and field-tested in 1991-92. Under this
system eighteen diseases were prioritized for reporting. The system was implemented in 9
districts and two agencies of Peshawar and Malakand Division of NWFP during 1993-94. After
the suspension of USAID resources, UNICEF funded it till 1994. The system became
non-functional due to lack of resources and could not be implemented fully till now. In 1995-96
due to pressure from the donor agencies a sum of Rs.8.00 Million was allocated and distributed to
DHOs and Agency Surgeons for printing HMIS Stationery. A sum of Rs.3.26 Million was
allocated and distributed to DHOs through SAP Budget for 1996-97 for this purpose. A sum of
Rs. 3.00 million was allocated and distributed to DHOs for the purpose of printing HMIS daily
use instruments in SAP budget for 1998-99. This activity is now planned to be regularly reflected
in SAP recurrent Budget.
On the demand of donor agencies HMIS was included in the restructured Family Health Project.
The statistical cell of Directorate General Health Services has been designated as HMIS Cell and a
full time Coordinator has been posted. This position has been created on regular side of the
budget. Under the financial support of Family Health Project, the following activities have been
completed in HMIS.
Trainings have been imparted to Supervisors, Computer Users, Doctors and Paramedics.
Hardware in the shape of Computers, Printers, Photocopiers, Fax Machines, UPS,
Stabilizers etc. have been
supplied to all DHO Offices, HMIS Cell of Directorate General Health Services, Agency
Surgeons and Medical
Superintendents of Hospitals.
HMIS Stationery has been supplied to all above. This supply will be sufficient for two
years.
Consumables like toners, ribbons etc have been provided in bulk.
Contract of repair and maintenance of photocopiers and computes was awarded during
Project life to ensure their functioning.
-44 -



Due to these inputs, the reporting has been improved substantially, error rate minimized and
coverage extended to whole Province.
6.6 TRAINING & RESEARCH
The training component was the responsibility of the Provincial Health Services Academy and its
satellite DHDCs in the Districts. The Academy conducted different workshops for in service
Health Staff and also carried out Research activities in various health related fields.
The Project also arranged training courses for health in both National and International
Institutions.
So far all targets have been achieved. Provincial Health Services Academy and its satellites have
been declared attached department and staff has been sanctioned for all formations. PHSA now
controls all training institutions in Health Department i.e. DHDCs, Nursing Schools, Paramedical
Schools.
6.7 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
This component was also newly introduced in the Health Department although the service
provision existed before under the name of MCH services. The following tasks were
accomplished under the Family Health Project support.
Reproductive Health Unit was established in the Directorate General Health Services
Office.
Assistant Project Coordinator was posted to support Deputy Director, Reproductive
Health Services in her duties.
Mobility means were provided to the unit.
Links with Population Welfare Department were established.
Supply of contraceptives was facilitated.
Labour Suites were established in most of the hospitals and were properly equipped.
Trainings of TBAs were supported.
The component however did not flourish well because of lack of interest from the Department of
Health and insufficient inputs by the program leadership.
7.    LESSONS LEARNED DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The following general impediments have been noted to hinder the capacity of the Project
Implementation Unit in carrying out its assignments to the best of its ability.
7.1 LACK OF KNOWLEDGE ABOUT W/BANK PROCEDURES
All the Project Directors Posted had to extensively understand the World Bank procedures in
- 45 -



order to be able to work efficiently. Most of them because of their long experiences of Govt.
procedures could not accept these new procedures of World Bank easily. Such situations lead to
undue delay in the execution of time bound tasks. The Project staff should have been properly
trained on the World Bank Procedures in order to be able to follow these properly.
7.2 FREQUENT TRANSFERS OF PROJECT DIRECTORS
The frequent transfers of the Project Directors created hurdles in the way of smooth
implementation as is evident from the fact that there were 8 changes in Project Directors over the
life of the project. They could hardly find time to develop their Vision. Government has to ensure
that Project staff continues working throughout Project life.
7.3 POSTING OF IMPROPER STAFF
Procurement and Civil Works are specialized assignments. Specially trained persons should have
been posted on these assignments in order to undertake or supervise these functions properly.
Alternatively consultants for these two components should have been hired in time to facilitate the
section incharges.
These units were however run by ordinary Medical Officers who consumed a lot of time to
understand various procedures.
7.4 DELAYED ONSET OF CIVIL WORKS
Due to various reasons, the Civil Works could not start by C&W Department. Some of these
reasons were lengthy procedures at World Bank to approve drawings, and non-acceptability of
approved rates to C&W Department. Due to this delay all purchases were also delayed as these
were supposed for these buildings, offices and institutions which were yet to be constructed. As
such the whole master plan got disturbed. Much of the Project funds were wasted on rents of
PHDC, DHDCs and their hostels which could have been avoided if the constructions could take
place in time. Similarly all supervision and referral work suffered because procurement of
vehicles was abnormally delayed.
7.5 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS IN PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT BUDGET
(ADPS)
The Project could not get the counterpart funds (GOP & Govt. of NWFP share) in accordance
with the approved financial phasing of the Projects. The Non-availability of Counterparts funds
had a two pronged impact, one was the delay in the physical implementation of the work plan
according to the approved phasing and secondly the donor funds were also reduced due to the
non-availability of equivalent counterpart funds.
7.6 RELEASE OF LOCAL & DONOR FUND
The procedures for release of funds both local (Govt. of Pakistan) and donors used to take a long
- 46 -



time by passing through a very complicated procedure of the Accounts section of the donors as
well as the Finance Department & Accountant Generals office of NWFP. The processing of bills
& sanctioning of funds were conditioned with item wise break up of expenditure to be provided to
the World Bank and Provincial Govt. These releases needed to be made through a much
smoother and faster mechanism, especially at the closing of the Project, when the Project
Coordination Unit was fighting against time and straining to complete the pending works within
Project life.
7.7 CONFLICT IN GOVT. & DONORS i.e. (WORLD BANK) PROCEDURES &
GUIDELINES
a.    The procedures/guidelines of the donors for procurement of equipment machinery,
award of contracts for civil works, selection of consultants put the Project Director
& other concerned authorities in trouble. They became in conflict with each other
and became an easy tool in the hands of steering committee, PE&D, Finance
Department and donors.
b.    The Govt. was stressing to follow the Govt. procedures while the World Bank
(Donor) was asking to strictly observe their guidelines & procedures. Although
the Chief Secretary NWFP as well as Planning & Development Division,
Islamabad had clearly guided that wherever these two procedures come in conflict,
the donors procedures will be followed in the best interest of the Project, but even
then it remained an issue of conflict through out project life.
7.8   LAPSABLE PROJECT ACCOUNTS
The Finance Department used to declare Assignments Accounts of the Project as lapsable on 30th
June of each financial year. This was not required. Alternatively they were supposed to recoup
the funds to the Project accounts immediately at the start of the next financial year but that
recoupement got delayed for months.
7.9  NON PRODUCTIVE & NON FREQUENT MEETINGS OF THE PROJECT
STEERING COMMITTEE
Initially the Project Steering Committee (PSC) meetings were not called frequently, usually issues
which were not of the level of PSC were included in the agenda of the meeting, which used to
waste the time.
7.10 INTERRUPTION IN THE DFID FUNDING
DFID funds were suspended twice in the Project life. First time when the Project was declared
sick and second time when the Govt. was changed on 12th October 1999 as these funds were
supposed for FATA Components, the Civil Works at Jandola could not be started. Rest of the
works in FATA have been completed and ail their equipment etc. have been provided through
joint DFID/IDA funding.
-47 -



7.11 NON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS
Due to undue delays in Civil Works and Procurements all these obligations were forced to be
completed in the last 02 years of the Project. As such payment liability used to increase. The
available funds both in GOP and IDA impress could not match these demands. Although Govt. of
NWFP very kindly allowed the Project to use GOP share in lieu of IDA spending and also
provided a Rs. 19.00 million working loan to the Project to use it for the same purpose, the
Project had to face a pending liability of Rs. 85 million at the end of the Project. Major reason for
this delay was the abnormal delay by the World Bank in reimbursing or replenishing the imprest
account.
7.12 TIME SPECIFIC ISSUES
The following issues relate to the closing period of the Project and are seen to possess the
potential to cause, or be instrumental in causing, delays in time bound activities which must have
been completed before 31st December, 1999.
The World Bank could not match its inputs with the financial needs of the Project, with
the result that requests for reimbursements of pending liabilities were dealt with through a
(normal) time consuming process; not withstanding the exigency of the time.
At the closing moments of the Project the attention and efforts of the Implementation Unit
was distracted from their pressing and most urgent responsibilities towards the gratification of the
inquisitorial requirements of various institutions e.g. the Army, the Provincial Inspection Team,
the A.G office as well as the World Bank.
8.    PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
The main objectives of the Project were to strengthen the Health Department so as to prepare it
towards meeting the challenges of the new millennium. In keeping with these objectives, the
Project has the following achievements to show for its efforts.
8.1 HEALTH HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Managerial Capacity building: Enhancement in Managerial Capabilities of the Health
Department has been achieved through the establishment of Provincial and Divisionai
Management Units in the shape of 7 DHDC's and one Provincial Health Services Academy which
are providing systematic management training to Health Department staff.
These institutions have been provided with the latest equipment and teaching aids such as
computers, fax machine, copiers and, in the case of PHSA, Local Area Networking and
multimedia projector etc.
Manpower Development. Provincial Health Services Academy and its satellite DHDC's
have imparted more than 523 Management related trainings to a large number of Health Staff
- 48 -



while the project has sponsored the training of (approx.) 500 Doctors in both National as well as
International Institutions in Health related fields. (This includes 79 Doctors sent abroad to
various overseas institutions for higher studies.)
Nursing Schools: To increase the quality of nursing care in the province the Project has
constructed 3 nursing schools and 4 Nursing Hostels, while one Nursing school has been
renovated. Stipends were provided to student nurses for 02 years from the Family Health Project
resources.
8.2 HEALTH AND NUTRITION EDUCATION
The Project has incorporated detailed interventions in the Health Education field as an adjunct to
the activities of the Health Department in imnparting awareness regarding Primary Health Care
issues, both within its own cadres as well as to the general public, through:
Establishment of the H&NE Cell and its satellite units: The main activity of this formation
is training to integrate Health Education into routine work and so far it has imparted more than
460 trainings with a total participation of 8375 to Health Department staff, NGOs, VHCs, CBOs,
school teachers and LHWs.
The most outstanding achievement of this cell has been the adoption into the National
Health Policy, of the findings of the 'Micro-nutrient Survey', conducted by it, where by
Vitamin A drops have been included in the Polio Vaccination regirne of the NIDs for
administration to children. This achievement is unique to the Family Health Project,
NWFP amongst others in the country.
Mass Media Campaigns. Mass media campaigns in the press, Radio and TV have been
conducted to impart awareness regarding seasonal disease such as Diarrhea, Hepatitis, Malaria,
ARI etc and also about Breast Feeding, Iodine Deficiency, leprosy, Vitamin A deficiency,
Smoking hazards and Hypertension.
Quiz programs, interviews, Mini-Features, documentaries and special supplements have
also been aired on the electronic media.
Establishment of Health Education Resource Center/Library: The library has been
established at the Provincial Health Services Academy.
8.3 HEALTH MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
The quality an efficiency of the Health Department decision making capacity has been vastly
improved through a process of systematized monitoring and transfer of information by the HMIS
Unit of the Project. This have been achieved by:
Establishment of District/Agency HMIS Cells: HMIS cells has been established in all the
Districts and Agencies. These have been provided with the latest computer systems and in some
-49 -



cases Fax machines as well.
*     Training of staff: Health Department staff has been trained in the collection and use of
data and HMIS tools as well as computer usage. A total of 4750 staff members have been trained
ranging from Divisional Directors to Paramedics and Computer Operators.
*     Increase in Reporting Rate: The reporting rate from different health units across the
province has increased from 16% in 1995 to 80% presently.
8.4   AREA FOCUS APPROACH
Integrated Primary Health Care Services were delivered through the Project's Area focus
approach. This has been achieved through:
Strengthening of 157 Health Institutions. Selective Health facilities have been designated
as 'Model Health Facilities' and provided with telephones, x-ray Machines, Ambulances, Bicycles
and other material and their staff trained in Family Planning and PHC.
Establishment of Village Health Committees: The Project has been able to foster
Comnmunity Participation and involvement in the Health sector through steps aimed at
decentralizing activities to the grass root level and empowering the community by involving them
in decision making.
These Committees monitored the activities of the Health units in their respective areas and
provided 50% financial equity to developmental activities of the units.
9.    CONCLUSION
The Family Health Project (FHP) became effectively operational in March 1992. However by
February 1996, the Project was already declared a sick Project by the Word Bank since most of
the policy decisions were delayed; resulting in non-compliance of some and slow implementation
of most of the dated covenants.
After the induction of a new managerial team in 1998 and with the active support and supervision
of the Department of Health, progress started in almost all components, evoking increasingly
appreciative remarks from consecutive visiting World Bank review missions, regarding the
progress of the Project, as is evident from the various Aide Memoirs of the visiting missions.
Similarly, in July 1998, while reviewing the slow moving Foreign Aided projects, the Chief
Secretary NWFP, appreciated the performance of the Health Department in rejuvenating a sick
project.
While extolling the achievements of the Project in all its key components, the latest Aid Memoir
(Dec 1999) notes that "As of November 1999, 81% of the restructured loan has been
disbursed and it is expected that by the end of Project life 90% of the credit will have been
utilized." These percentages are of IDA Dollar credit only, while in Rupee terms, the upto-date
- 50 -



expenditure (as on 30-06-2000) rounds upto Rs.813.517 million against an allocation of Rs
843.086 m which is 96.50% (See detailed expenditure at annexure-III).
On the basis of its satisfactory performance, World Bank granted a selective extension of four
months to the Project for completion of its procurement for Gynae/Peads Block of Lady Reading
Hospital Peshawar.
In a nutshell, the Project has achieved all its targets within the Project Life, through extraordinary
efforts in its last two years without compromising on the quality and procedures.
- 51 -



Annex 9. Cofinanciers' Contributions to the ICR
REVIEW OF THE DFID FUNDED COMPONENT
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT: NOVEMBER 2000
In parallel with the Bank decision to identify this as a "problem project". DFID decided in
1996 to suspend their inputs to the FATA component of the project. The DFID position
reflected their serious concerns about the overall progress in project implementation and the
perceived lower than desired levels of commitment and leadership to address these
concerns.
DFID support recommenced in April 1999 at which time a more limited programme of
activities was agreed (but with the same overall project objectives). These activities
included technical assistance for the support of a Master Health Plan for FATA - with the
aim of using this plan as the basis for the rationalization the provision of health services
across the Tribal Areas following project completion. Otherwise, the civil works
components of the project were to be scaled down and support provided for team building
and training (with the primary aim of increasing the numbers of female health workers
(doctors and paramedics) working in FATA.
A further suspension of DFID support then followed in October 1999 on the shift to
military government. DFID support has again recommenced - in October 2000. The DFID
supported components will run for a further nine months - until June 2001. This will allow
for the completion of:
* the Master Health Plan (including the team building training)
*  the induction training
*  the paramedic refresher training
*  the outstanding minor facility refurbishment
*  the equipping of one remaining health facility.
Drawing on lessons learned elsewhere in Pakistan, two other components have been added
for execution during the final extension period. These cover support for (i) the
establishment of an Information Resource Centre at the Provincial Health Services
Academy in Peshawar (building on the experience in Balochistan as part of the Family
Health 2 Project) and (ii) the provision of specialized English language training to the
trainers of paramedics in FATA. This last reflects the difficulties experienced in FATA in
upgrading paramedic refresher training.
- 52 -



