Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
S    7        g t  &17 -7/-X
Report No. 9345-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
APRIL 12, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I -
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Rupees (Rps)
US$1.00 - Rps 22.48 (March 1991)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
BHU      -   Basic Health Unit
CDC      -   Communicable Disease Control
C&W   U      Communications and Works
CHW      -   Community Health Worker
CIDA     a   Canadian International Development Agency
DHDC     -   District Health Development Centre
DHO      -   District Health Officer
DOH      -   Department of Health
FATA     8   Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FP       -   Family Planning
FY       =   Financial Year
IDA      -   International Development Association
JICA     -   Japan International Cooperation Agency
LHV      -   Lady Health Visitor
MCH      -   Maternal and Child Health
MOH      -   Ministry of Health
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
NWFP     a   North-West Frontier Province
ODA      =   Overseas Development Administration
PC-i     -   Planning Commission (form) Number 1
PHC          Primary Health Care
PIU      -   Project Implementation Unit
PHDC     -   Provincial Health Development Centre
PWD      -   Population Welfare Division
RHC      a   Rural Health Centre
Rps      -   Rupees
SCF      -   Save the Children Fund
TBA      -   Traditional Birth Attendant
UNFPA    -   United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF   -   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    -   Unitee States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLk
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH HPROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PROJECT AND LOAN SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .(i)
I.  Sector Background,  Issues and Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . .1
A. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B. Health and Population Sector Status   . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
C. Sector Issues and Constraints   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
1. Policy ........................ . 4
2. Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
3. Limited Services, Particularly for Women   . . . . . . . .  9
4. Staffing ....................... . 10
5. Expenditure and Financing ............... . 12
D. Sector Development Strategy   .....  .                 .....  .     .  .   .    .  13
II.  The Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
A. Objectives and Summary Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
B. Detailed Project Description ............... . 18
C. Environmental Considerations  .....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .  27
III.   Project Costs, Financing, Management and Implementation . . . . 27
A. Project Costs and Financing   .....  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   27
B. Project Management and Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . 31
C. Procurement ....................... . 36
D. Disbursements, Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
IV.  Benefits and Risks   ........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...                    ..          .  39
V.  Agreements Reached and Recommendations   . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ANNEBXES:
1 -  Basic Health Data, National and Provincial   . . . . . . . . . . 43
2 - Provincial Features.4 .  4
3 - Health Staff .                    . .                . . . . . . . . . . . 56
4 -  Project Description - Health Services Development . . . . . . . 58
5 -  Project Description - Health Staff and Management Development  . 70
6 -  Provincial and Project Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
7 -  Snmmary Cost Tables .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
8 - Disbursement Schedule .                                                        112
9 -  Summary Implementation Chart   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  113
10 -  Selected Documents Available on Project File   . . . . . . . .  114
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
CHARS,:
1  -   Organization  of  the  HOH  anJ the  Provincial  DOHs  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   116
2 - Project Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
ME9:    Family Health Project (IBRD Reference No. 22863)
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan in December 1990.
The mission comprised Messrs. C. Walker (Mission Leader), R. Castadot (Public Health Specialist), Bashir ul
Haq (Health Advisor, Resident Mission, Pakistan) and R. Welter (Consultant, Implementation Specialist).
Mesdames A. Duncan (UK-ODA) and K. Lidwell (SCF) joined the latter part of the mission.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Proiect and Credit Summary
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:       Province of Sindh
Province of North-West Frontier
Amount:              SDR 31.8 million (US$45.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 35 years maturity
Project
Description:         The project has three main objectives: (a) to improve the
health status of the population of the two provinces; (b)
to incraase the effectiveness of the existing health care
network; and (c) to build the institutional capacity to
realize these objectives.   The project has three main
components: (a) strengthening health services from the
village to the district level, focusing on improved maternal
health services including family planning and integrating
and expanding communicable disease control activities; (b)
staff development focusing on improved staff capabilities
and performance and increasing the number of female
paramedical staff; and (c) management and organizational
development focusing on improved management capabilities.
The project will finance: construction or expansion of
training facilities and limited health facility upgrading,
furniture, equipment and transport; training costs; technical
assistance; and incremental recurrent costs including
medicines.    It will be  implemented by  the provincial
governments with technical support from local NGOs and
universities.
Benefits and Risks: The project will improve the health status of the population
generally but with a special emphasis on high risk and under-
privileged sections of the community.   They will have
improved access to services of a higher quality and of
increased effectiveness. Women would benefit particularly,
through improved maternal health services. The government
will benefit from the institutional development components,
which would also pave the way for more ambitious objectives
to be achieved through subsequent investments. The main risk
is the limited implementation capacity and lack of large
project experience of the provincial Health Departments; this
risk is addressed through having a substantial management
strengthening component, simplifying the project design, and
providing  for  technical  assistance   in  key  areas.



(11)
Strengthening public health systems and particularly focusing
on women's health problems including family planning may not
receive sufficient priority from the present health system;
this risk is minimized throngh fostering strong commitment
to the project from senior officials concerned, the project
reinforcing key primary and maternal/child care aspects of
the government's health policy, and through the early and
continuing involvement of public health orientated local
universities  and NGOs.    Finally,  t'..ere  are  risks  of
difficulties of project supervision in two largely
independent provinces; this risk has been offset by
incorporating additional monitoring resources, recommending
more intensive than normal IDA supervision, and through
provision for regular inter-provincial meetings.



(iii)
Project Cost Estimates
…............................................................................
(US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign    Total
Strengthening Health Services:                       19.8       9.8      29.6
Staff Development:                                    4.0       1.9       5.9
Management and Organizational Development:           11.9       5.3      17.2
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        35.7      17.0      52.7
Physical Contingencies                       2.1       1.0       3.1
Price Contingencies                          4.8       2.3       7.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         42.5      20.4      62.9
Financing Plan
(US$ Millions)
Gov't   IDA      ODA     SCF   Total
Civil Works                                 1.3    11.4     0.2      -     12.9
Equipment                                   1.7     5.3     0.4      -      7.4
Furniture                                   0.1     0.8     0.0      -      0.9
Vehicles                                    4.1     4.9     0.1      -      9.2
Technical Assistance                        0.4     1.2     0.8     1.0     3.5
Training, Educ. Materials, Fellowships      0.1     9.1     1.2      -    10.4
Salaries                                    2.7     5.0      -       -      7.7
Medicines, Operating Costs                  3.6     5.4      -       -      9.0
Project Management, Research                 -      1.6      -       -      1.6
Project Preparation Facility                 -      0.2      -       -      0.2
TOTAL FINANCING                   14.1    45.0     2.8     1.0    62.9
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
--------------------- IDA Fiscal Years --------------------
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
...-    ..    ..    ...  -- -..-        ....    ----     .  ..
Annual            2.0    0.7      5.5   10.0   10.1       6.8     5.9     4.0
Cumulative        2.0     2.7     8.2    18.2    28.3    35.1    41.0    45.0



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PRQJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Sector Background. Issues and Constraints
A. Iackagound'/
1.    Pakistan's demographic and health characteristics are typical of many
developing countries: high fertility, low life expectancy, widespread infectious
and communicable diseases and high maternal and child mortality, coupled with
a young age structure and increasing urbanization.   While some progress in
addressing these wide-ranging problems has been made, health and demographic
indicators remain poor. The government is seriously concerned by this situation
and is developing new programs to redress the position.
Economic and Social Setting
2.    For most of the 1980s, Pakistan's GDP continued to grow at a high 6.5X per
annum in real terms. Despite this rapid growth and some reform initiatives, the
economy showed a number of structural weaknesses. Towards the end of FY88, the
deteriorating resource position caused a financial crisis. The budget deficit
reached 8.5X of GDP, inflation accelerated, the current account deficit doubled
to 4.31 of GNP, the external debt service xztio reached 281 of export earnings,
and foreign exchange reserves fell to a level equal to less than three weeks of
imports. In reaction to the crisis, the government began to implement a medium-
term adjustment program which aimed at restoring resource balances to sustainable
levels and at improving the efficiency of the economy.
3.    Macroeconomic performance in the first two years of the adjustment program
was slow and uneven. While GDP growth was around 51 per annum, inflation proved
difficult to control: it accelerated in FY89, was reduced to 61 in FY90, but
started to rise again at the end of the fiscal year. The resource balance showed
a slight reduction in the country's reliance on foreign savings, due to an
improvement in private savings by 1.51 of GNP, while public savings stagnated.
Implementation of structural reform in the government budget was disappointing.
The budget deficit was reduced to 6.81 of GDP in FY90, exceeding the target.
This reduction, however, was achieved partly through restraint on the already
low development expenditure, while defense expenditure remained high and revenues
increased slightly  to 18.61  of GDP.    In the  external  sector,  after a
deterioration in FY89, the current account deficit improved to 41 of GNP in FY90,
virtually on target. Exports, particularly cotton manufactures, performed well,
while imports were restrained. However, a shortfall in external balance-of-
payments assistance, due to weak implementation of the adjustment program, left
foreign exchange reserves at only three weeks of imports. In the first half of
FY91, the impact of the Gulf crisis has accentuated an already existing
1 More detailed lntozmation an the sector le included in Pakistan Health and Population Sector Report,
June 28, 1988 (Report No. 7349-PAX).



- 2 -
deterioration in Pakistan's economic performance, which demonstrates the
continuing vulnerability of the Pakistan economy to external shocks.
4.    Socio-cultural barriers to improving health status, particularly for women
and children, are high and include very low female literacy (5% in rural areas),
a largely rural population often living in remote villages with poor
communications, low status traditionally accorded to women and limitations on
the movement of females outside the household.
B. Health and Population Sector Status
Rolation
5.    Pakistan's population of over 110 million makes it the tenth largest
country in the world. The current population growth rate is estimated to be 3.1%
per annum, which is among the highest in Asia. This rate is the result of a slow
steady decline in mortality and of very little, if any, change in fertility.
If this rate of growth continues, the population will double in the next 23
years; much of this growth is now unavoidable. The overall age distribution of
the population is typical of countries with high growth rates, with 45% of the
population under 15 years of age. The sex ratio is skewed towards males (111
males to 100 females in the 1981 census) mainly due to high female mortality
relative to that of males. Although the urban population is increasing at about
4.4% per annum, only some 30% of the population live in towns. The high overall
rate of population growth presents very serious problems and constraints for the
further economic and social development of the country,/; when combined with the
uneven population distribution, it also presents particular challenges for the
delivery of effective health services at a sustainable cost.
6.    Fertility and Family Planning - The total fertility rates/ is estimated at
6.6 births per woman, which is again among the highest in Asia, and the crude
birth rate is about 46 per thousand population (1988). Universal marriage, low
contraceptive use (estimated at about 13% in 1988), declining breastfeeding, only
partly offset by increasing age at marriage all contribute to maintaining high
fertility. This is reinforced by the low levels of female literacy. There is
no evidence of a start to *a general fertility decline, despite over thirty years
of government sponsored and donor supported population programs. Contraceptive
use has been slowly rising but it is still below levels which would have a
demographic impact. Despite some decline over the last ten years, knowledge of
modern contraceptive methods remains widespread and desired family size (on
average, 4.9 children) is substantially below present levels suggesting a
significant unmet demand for family planning services. Abortion is illegal in
Pakistan except to save the life of the mother; although little is known about
the extent of illegal abortion, the complications arising from illegal abortions
I See Pakistan - Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan, Concerns and Consequences, March 17, 1989 (Report
No. 7522-PAr) for a detailed discussion of population related issues.
I The average number of ehildren that would be born alive to a woman during her lifetime if she passes
tbrough her ohild bearin8 years conformin8 to the age-specific fertility rates of a given year.



- 3 -
are reported to be often encountered at health facilities, particularly in urban
areas.
7.    The shortcomings of past government population efforts, which had to
operate in a most hostile social environment, have been documented'/ and include:
(a) frequent changes in administration and organization; (b) a family planning
supply orientation with weak demand creation; (c) inadequate evaluation and
unrealistic target setting; (d) shifting political commitment; and (e)
insufficient access to quality family planning services and particularly the lack
of family planning services at health facilities. The health and demographic
implications are severe and form a vicious circle of high fertility, frequent
births, high maternal mortality and morbidity, and high infant mortality --
which in turn maintains the high birth rate.
Health
8.    The crude death rate is around 13 per thousand (1988) having fallen some
40% in the past 20 years. Estimates for expectation of life at birth of 55 years
for both males and females (1988) show a slow improvement during the 1980s. Such
levels are broadly in line with the average for low income countries (excluding
China), but the South Asian pattern of higher mortality of women persists in
Pakistan; it is related to the high level of maternal mortality, which in turn
is linked to the high fertility levels and lack of women's access to health care.
This male/female mortality differential is slowly reducing but remains marked;
maternal mortality continues to be particularly high. Infant mortality is high
and was estimated at 107 per thousand for 1988, again showing improvement over
the last 20 years (149 per thousand in 1965). Perinatal deaths are mainly due
to delivery complications, poor maternal health and tetanus; post-neonatal deaths
are most commonly due to diarrhoea linked problems, malnutrition and communicable
diseases (see Annex 1, Table 4).
9.    Maternal and Child Health (MMC) - Maternal mortality was estimated to be
around 600 per 100,000 live births (1980), with recent survey estimates for small
areas ranging from 400 to 1,700 per 100,000. Causes are complex and include the
interaction of excessive/early/late and frequent childbearing, delivery
complications and post-delivery infections. The situation faced by women is
characterized by high levels of anemia and malnutrition; little or no prenatal
care; unsupervised home deliveries; no post-partum care; and late, if any,
transfer to higher levels of health care. The delivery of health services to
women is severely hampered by socio-cultural barriers. The dearth of female
health staff, inadequate quality of care, poor management and supervision,
insufficient drugs and supplies, inadequate integration of the traditional birth
attendant or SIA into the rural health services and the weakness of the referral
system all contribute to the low use of primary health care facilities by women.
The overall result is high maternal and perinatal mortality.
10.   Child mortality and morbidity are dominated by infectious diseases.
Malaria and malnutrition are important contributory factors (see Annex 1, Table
op cat World Bank, 1989 (Report No. 7522-PAX).



4-
3). Since the mid-1980s, Pakistan has had a successful immunization program with
coverage levels reported, in some parts of the country, of over 80X of under-
5  children.      Gastrointestinal   infections  are  the  most   important
mortality/morbidity cause in children. The continuation of the more recently
introduced oral rehydration program, combined with increased water and sanitation
programmes (if coupled with adequate health education), should be making an
impact on the incidence of these diseases.   Declines in breastfeeding have
occurred throughout the country but particularly in urban areas; this is a major
concern for both infant health and fertility.
Nutritn
11.   Despite  steady  economic  growth  and  general  availability  of  food,
malnutrition is a major problem, particularly for children and pregnant/lactating
women. There has been little improvement during the past decade. Forty-eight
percent of children under-5 are malnourished (low weight for age), 42X show
stunting and 65X suffer from anemia while 341 of pregnant/lactating women are
underweight for height and 451 are anemic5/. Low birth weights are common (271
of all births). Maldistribution of food between regions, income groups and among
family members all contribute to malnutrition. Little understanding of nutrition
leads to poor infant feeding practices and delayed introduction of supplementary
food. Decreases in breast-feeding are marked (60X of children were breast-fed
beyond two years in 1966 versus 201 in 1985). Iron deficiency is widespread;
vitamin A deficiency is believed to be a serious problem; and iodine deficiency
disorders are prevalent in northern Pakistan.
C. Sector Issues and Constraints'/
(1) Polilc
Health
12.   Traditionally, resources and priority were given to hospital, medical
school and curative care development -- all of which have expanded rapidly over
the past thirty years -- and primary and preventive services were relatively
neglected with low allocations of funds. A greater focus on basic (rural) health
services, especially infrastructure, began in the mid-1970s and increased in the
mid-1980s; about 851 of Union Council7/ areas now have a health facility.
Allocations for preventive programs have increased from very low levels but the
effective priority given to preventive services, outreach and health education
remains limited.  Health manpower policy has typically focussed on doctors;
development of nursing and paramedical cadres, especially for female staff, has
lagged behind. Health policy has evolved largely through the five year planning
process; the most recent Plans -- the Sixth (1982-87), the Five Point Programme
Natlonal Nutrition Survey 1985-87, Pakltan National Institute of Health, 1988.
Baokground data are included in Annex 1.
Z The smalleat local government unit, which covers a population of 10-20,000.



-5-
that evolved from it and particularly the Seventh (1988-93) -- recognized and
sought to address many of the deficiencies in basic health services. The Seventh
Plan gives much attention to the key areas of primary health care quality, the
immunization program, increased community involvement, nutrition, staff
development and management improvement. A new health policy, reinforcing this
approach and developing it further, which emphasizes the importance of meeting
the health needs of the poor and givillg priority to developing an effective
primar:y care system, was published in May 1990. It focuses on decentralization
of the health administration, the introduction of community level workers,
establishing an essential drug system, a major expansion of female paramedical
and nursing staff, encouragement for the private health sector, and improved
financing of the health sector. No major changes in primary health care and
rural health services policy are expected in the near future.
13.   Service development has not kept pace with policy (see below) and, despite
some successes, important parts of recent primary health care initiatives remain
largely unimplemented. This is partly due to the present staff's training and
their reward system which has maintained a system with a strong curative focus
and one which is resistant to change. In addition, there are a number of mainly
operational factors such as management problems and staffing inadequacies. For
example, during the first two years of the Seventh Plan (1988/89 and 1989/90),
the Plan focus on improving primary health care quality was translated into the
apecific targets of: (a) provision of primary health care facilities in every
Union Council by June 1990; (b) improvement of outreach from health facilities
through training grassroot workers; (c) improvement of referral services by
establishing nurse training schools at district hospitals; (d) provision of
family  planning   services   at  primary  health   care   facilities;   and
(e) decentralization for improved management. Achievements during the two years
have been variable and the overall thrust towards better quality primary care
has yet to be realized.   Steady progress continues on establishing health
facilities with apparent shortfalls mainly due to increases in the number of
Union Councils, while limited progress was made on outreach worker training and
on district level nurse training schools; very little progress was made with
provision of family planning services and management decentralization. During
this period, development budgets fall short by 15-20% compared to the Seventh
Plan targets; utilization of the health development budget was over 90%. As to
the 1990 policy, while the heightened emphasis on primary care effectiveness and
quality is welcome, the policy has yet to be translated into a prioritised,
consistent and costed plan; thus, its implementation feasibility has not yet been
assessed.
PZ21tLuhOn
14.   Population policy has been notable for its changes in direction.  Between
1965, when Pakistan first adopted a population policy, and 1980 there were at
least three major shifts. Since 1980, the Population Welfare Division (PWD) of
the Ministry of Planning and Development has had responsibility for population
matters. PWD has its own clinics and service delivery system which are largely
independent of government health facilities.   The approach is multi-sectoral,
and aims to involve a wide variety of public and private institutions in the
population program; ambitious demographic targets have been set, but not met.



- 6 -
Government health facilities do not generally offer family planning services'8
despite government policy being explicit, since at least 1985, that all
government health facilities should offer such services. The 1990 health policy
reinforces the importance of rectifying this omission. In contrast to health,
a new government population policy per se is not expected to be developed. In
mid-1990, PWD was elevated to Ministry status.
15.   Since 1980, population policy has been largely unchanged.  The current
multi-sectoral approach is the one most likely to be effective. However, as for
health policy, the implementation of population policy has not matched the plans.
Even allowing for the hostile cultural environment, contraceptive use remains
low and little priority is given to the program by politicians or administrators.
It is still seen by many as a sensitive subject.9"
NutrLtion
16.   Widespread malnutrition in Pakistan is mainly the result of poverty, the
low status of women and girls, and poor education and health. Past policy on
nutrition has been fragmentary, implementation has often received low priority
and it has commonly been equated only with limited supplementary feeding.
Subsidies on selected foods have not been targeted on poor households.   A
nutrition surveillance system for children and pregnant women has yet to become
established within the general health services; a nutrition research agenda has
been developed but not yet implemented.   The new health policy proposes
significant nutrition development through introducing applied nutrition into
general education, employment of nutrition specialists in the public health
system, integration of nutrition into maternal and child health care, and
targeting of food subsidies.
(2) OrQganization and Management
The Public Sector
17.   The Ministry of Health"'/ (MOH) of the federal government is responsible for
health policy making and coordination; with a few exceptions, it is not
responsible for providing health services directly. Responsibility for health
service provision lays with the provincial health departments each headed by a
Secretary, assisted by a Director of Health Services (DHS).  Senior district
officials report to the DHS and include the District Health Officer (DHO) and
the District Hospital Medical Superintendent. Officers in charge of lower level
government facilities and the district managers of vertical programs report
I The eoception Is the reproductive health (.e. sterilization) program which laraely functions from
governanet hospitals.
I For a fuller disoueion of population policy constraints, see op cit World Bank 1989 (Report No. 7522-
PAX), Chapter 7.
12 The Ministry's full title is the Ministry of Health, Special Education and Social Welfare with its
Health Wing being responsible for the health sector. In conformity with common usage, this report refers to
the Health Wing as the Mlnistry of Health.



-7-
through the DHO. Indicative organization diagrams for the federal and provincial
levels are given in Charts IA and lB.  Local councils, especially municipal
authorities, provide some health services but their nature and coverage vary
widely; public enterprises provide health services to their staff. Further
details on the organization of government health services are given in Annex 6.
18.   There are three basic layers in the government health system:  (a) at the
Union Council level, Basic Health Units (BHU) serving populations of 10-20,000
designed to offer simple curative and preventive, including maternal and child,
care; (b) Rural Health Centres (RHC) providing more sophisticated curative care,
including inpatient services, and preventive care for 60-100,000 people;"1 and
(c) a network of tehsil'/ hospitals (typically one per tehsil with 30-80 beds)
backed-up by district hospitals (usually one in each district with 100-300 beds)
offering first line referral services, with tertiary care offered by 58
specialized and teaching hospitals located in the larger urban areas (see Annex
1, Table 5). Alongside the standard basic health system, there are vertical
programs .n malaria, tuberculosis, supplementary feeding, immunization, oral
rehydration and dAi training, typically each with its own federal and provincial
management.
19.   The organization of the population program is different to health; federal
control of the program remains considerable. The program has its own structure
of federal, provincial and district officials reporting to the Secretary of
Population Welfare.  Their own service delivery system, which covers a much
smaller proportion of the country than the general health system, includes 1250
Family Welfare Centres (FWC), 135 Reproductive Health Centres (located in
hospitals and offering contraceptive surgery and other family planning methods)
and training institutions. It is the most separate of the vertical programs with
its own federal Ministry and provincial Departments of Population Welfare.
20.   Tne present system of rural health facilities was intended to provide
integrated public primary health care services; it is a long way from realizing
either its organizational or service goals.   Organizational and management
constraints include:  (a) the separation of the decision making authority from
program operations and services.  Even DHOs have very little program, personnel
or financial authority in their district; (b) when new schemes are implemented
there is often no plan for phasing out or integrating existing schemes. For
example, many of the facilities existing before 1978 such as Dispensaries and
Maternal and Child Health Centres are still functioning. The result is a complex
structure13/; (c) the lack of integration between the various vertical programs
and the basic health services (the degree of integration differs markedly between
programs and provinces). Several of these programs have achieved considerable
success, much of which has been ascribed to their strong central organization
11 The present system of rural facilities (BCUs and RHCs) was introduced in 1978 and now extends to the
entire country. On average, there is now one primary care facility for every 11,200 people.
12 An administrative unit below the district level, covering some 300,000 people on average.
L This complexity differs between provinces as each had different hierarchies of facilities and
services.



-8-
and simple technically sound approach.   But, as they often operate rather
independently of the basic health services, they compound management problems;
(d) the virtual absence of incentives for working in rural facilities, poor
career prospects and a generally poor reward system; (e) inadequate resources
for transport, drugs14/, etc.; (f) at the village level, there is no organized
public sector health system and no linkage with the #AL; (g) community
involvement with the management of health services is minimal; (h) a poor
information system which does not assist decision making; and (i) no linkage
between budget allocations and performance or efficiency.
21.   At  higher  levels,  both  federal  and  provincial,  coordination  and
communication between the various administrative tiers is often poor,
responsibilities are sometimes confused and authority is insufficiently
delegated. Federal and provincial planning capability and information systems
are very limited; planning is often left to junior unqualified staff. Public
health management, including hospital administration, training has only recently
started in Pakistan and remains minimal.   The separation of health from
population service delivery inevitably leads to inefficiencies in both systems
and there is potential for improved coverage or savings from closer coordination
or by  combining  the  two.    The population  system  suffers  from  similar
organizational problems as the health system but they are less structural since
it is a single purpose program with clearer federal/provincial lines of
responsibility.  Their problems are more procedural, arising from the unique
federal/provincial administrative arrangements, and managerial. Overall, the
resulting service delivery problems arising from trying to manage such complex
systems are severe.
The Private Sector15/
22.   It is unusually  large and accounts  for about 60X of total health
expenditure. It can be divided into three parts: the modern, the traditional
and the non-governmental organizations (NGO). The modern consists principally
of general medical practitioners. There are about 12,000 private practitioners,
in addition to some 26,000 government doctors who commonly have their own private
practices. Private hospitals number about 550 in addition to over 300 maternity
and nursing homes, most with less than 50 beds, but there are a few with over
200 beds and all diagnostic facilities. There are almost 30,000 private clinics
and dispensaries, but most are simple general practitioners offices. Recently
there has been a growth of 'stand alone' diagnostic facilities which now number
some 450, mostly in the urban areas of Punjab and Sindh. Pakistan has a large
pharmaceutical industry with 64 manufacturers; small chemists shops, estimated
at 11,500, are common. Consumption of pharmaceuticals is unusually high (2.2X
of average household expenditure in 1985). Pakistan manufactures and exports
significant quantities of simple medical equipment and instruments; medical
14 An essential drugs program is in the early stages of implementation; drug shortages are reportedly
caused more by budgetary problems than by logistical difficulties.
15 See Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9.



-9-
equipment repair capabilities for more complex equipment are, in contrast, very
limited.
23. The traditional comprises d&ai (i.e. traditional birth attendants) and
traditional healers. Dais are found in rural and urban areas and are thought
to number over 100,000. They attend the great majority of births and are the
overwhelming first choice for prenatal care by pregnant women (682).  Three
different systems of traditional healing'/ are practiced and, in all, there are
about 54,000 healers of which some 15X are formally qualified.
24.   Although there are over 8,000 NGOs in Pakistan about two thirds of which
are in urban areas, mostly with a social welfare orientation, they are often
small and usually are neither financially nor technically self-sufficient.  They
are normally funded by a combination of local contributions, Zakat funds'7/,
grants-in-aid from the government and foreign assistance.  In contrast there
are a very few large, effective and well-run local NGOs working in the health
and population sector. Overall, however, NGO contributions to the health sector
are modest and markedly less than that of NGOs in neighboring countries. PWD
has promoted population through the private sector by: (a) providing incentives
to general practitioners to offer family planning services; (b) marketing of
condoms through private commercial channels; and (c) establishing a fund to
stimulate NGO population work.
(3) Limited services, particularly for women
25.   The performance of the grimary health facilities has not kept pace with
their rapid expansion; service quality and utilization are low due to systemic
problems of manpower, management, finance, staff attitudes and the social
setting. Outreach work by BHU and RHC staff is minimal due to lack of resources
and incentives.  Preventive services continue to operate largely as vertical
rather than integrated programs. Services for rural women face these general
problems and other issues specific to women including:  (a) the lack of the
integration of the dai and community workers with the health facility, especially
of the approximately 50,000 dais who have already been trained to improve home
deliveries and to identify and refer complications; (b) inadequate female
staffing hindering access and quality of care; (c) an ineffective referral
system; (d) the lack of a health education campaign; (e) limited availability
and accessibility of family planning advice and services; and (f) constraints
on female mobility. Any improvements in maternal health will also have a major
impact on child health.   A recent analysis by UNICEF concluded somewhat
ambitiously that, given high priority for primary health care, 'the potential
exists to reduce by 50Z Pakistan's infant and maternal mortality rates during
the next five years'18/.
L Tibb-i-unani, ayurvedy and homeopathy.
17 Revenue from a form of wealth tax.
S ituation Analyasi of Children and Women in Pakistan, UNICEF, 1988.



* 10 -
26.   Public hosRital outpatient facilities are frequently grossly overloaded,
particularly in the larger hospitals, due to the absence of an effective referral
system and the poor quality care offered at lower level facilities. Inpatient
facilities at the teaching hospitals consistently run at around 100X occupancy
with district hospitals usually having rates of about 75Z.  In the smaller
hospitals, especially at the tehsil level, occupancy rates of 502 or less are
common with rates dropping to 25-30X in RHCs. The average patient stay in an
RHC is 3 days, in a tehuil hospital 5 days and in a district hospital 12 days.
Communications between the hospitals and lower level facilities are rudimentary.
There is no organized way for staff to obtain advice from higher level facilities
and there is no organized system for dealing with emergencies including a lack
of emergency transport services. Management problems throughout the hospital
sector are severe; equipment maintenance is neglected.
27.   The large privatg  health sector is growing quickly, partly driven by the
continuing over-supply of medical graduates which has caused a rapid growth in
the number of general practitioners concentrated in the urban areas. In rural
areas most private practitioners, whether allopathic or traditional, are
unqualified. The government has taken some limited steps to encourage the growth
of the private sector. A weakness is the lack of integration of the private
sector and NGOs in health policy formulation and planning. There is no effective
regulation on the quality and mix of services offered by private providers. The
main government involvement with the private sector has been the successful dai
training program (although the absence of a support and supervision system linked
to the primary care services has been the main problem); about 502 of all dais
have received at least some basic trainingt'9. Only in Punjab and Sindh has some
attempt been made to involve traditional healers with government services;
opposition from allopathic trained staff has often been considerable. Little
government support or encouragement has been given to the development of NGO work
in the health sector and there is substantial scope for the further development
of NGO activities.
(4)  StaffgUS
28.   Nationally, there is one doctor for every 2,700 people, one nurse for every
7.8 hospital beds/' and one paramedical for every 1,545 people.   With the
exception of the doctor/population ratio, these ratios are among the worst in
Asia. Moreover, they hide marked differences between the availability of staff:
(a) in urban and rural areas; (b) in provinces; and (c) who are male and female.
Most female staff are in short supply. The doctor/nurse ratio of 4:1 is very
unusual (1:4 is more typical for most countries) and results from the rapid
expansion of medical training, moving from 5 to 17 medical schools over the past
20 years, with little increase in nursing and support staff training.  This
imbalance in training has led to an estimated 6,000 currently unemployed young
medical graduates. Health manpower planning in Pakistan has been ad hoc and has
" Evaluation of the Training of Traditional Birth Attendants (Dais) in Pakistan, Planning and
Development Division, Government of Pakistan, April 1989.
22 There is a significant difference between the public and private sectors - 1:8.8 beds and 1:5.5 beds
respectively; about 291 of nurses work in the private sector.



- 11 -
concentrated on particular cadres for short time horizons.  However, a full
health manpower plan was completed in August 1990. It suggests that staffing
all government facilities according to established standards, and allowing for
some refocusing of work towards preventive and promotive services, would require
increasing staff by about 80% over the next ten years. The plan proposes to
alter the current imbalances by reducing the annual output of medical graduates
to 25% of the current level and increasing the output of nursing and paramedical
cadres by between 150% and 1,300% according to the cadre. Background information
on the main health cadres is given in Annexes 1 (Tables 6, 7 and 9) and 3.
29.   The extensive network of traditional health workers, particularly the dals
and the hIakeems (i.e. traditional practitioners), offer scope for high returns
from some limited training, particularly in hygiene and preventive measures.
The government intends to expand the current AaA training program; upgrading the
skills of hakeems has yet to begin. Pakistan has conducted limited experiments
with community health workers (CHW), but has not yet introduced them on a large
scale although the 1990 health policy plans for their general introduction (see
below).
30.   The staffing issues are probably the most important and difficult of all
those facing the sector.   Insufficient attention to manpower planning has
resulted in a gross over-supply of young medical graduates and under-supply of
nurses and paramedical staff (especially of females). Staffing issues include:
(a) limited manpower planning capability and the absence of a system to link
manpower planning, production/training and management2"/; (b) the lack of a
comprehensive in-service training system coupled to supportive supervision; (c)
the marked decline in training quality, particularly of doctors; (d) government
attempts to employ the excess doctors in jobs ill-suited to their training
thereby further distorting service provision, particularly in the rural areas;
(e) the cost of large numbers of additional medical positions; (f) the absence
of female staff making the provision of maternal and child services difficult
when cultural norms commonly dictate that it is essential to have female service
providers; (g) the low social status of the nursing and paramedical professions
making recruitment and retention difficult; (h) the absence of management
training and lack of consideration of management ability in selecting those who
will be in charge of health facilities; and (i) low salaries, leading to low
motivation and extensive private practice by government staff.   The overall
result is that many government health facilities, particularly in the rural
areas, have vacant posts -- a problem compounded by absenteeism and deficient
posting practices, especially that of staff holding posts in rural areas and
working in urban facilities.
31.   The 1990 health policy addresses many, but not all, of these issues.  Two
matters outstanding are: (a) the policy states that 'the present number entering
medical education will not be reduced and new medical colleges will be opened
in the public sector'. This is contrary to the needs defined in the manpower
plan and would divert resources away from training lower level cadres
L As a continuation of the manpower plan work, federal and provincial manpower units will be established
to begin this work.



* 12 -
particularly females; and (b) providing jobs for all newly qualified doctors,
which would have significant adverse financial and health systems consequences.
These problems are largely a reflection of wider national issues concerning the
production and employment of highly qualified manpower. Also, the proposal to
have one male and one female CHW in each village, government salaried and trained
possibly for as long as 12 months, is financially and technically infeasible.
The government has recently started to consider, and encouraged to experiment
with, more sustainable approaches particularly concerning shorter training
periods and different methods of payment.
(5) ExDenditure and Pinancing
32.   Since the early 1970s, total health expenditure increased slowly to reach
the level of Rps.  20,456 million"/ or about 3.5% of GNP in 1987.   This
expenditure level is lower than in some neighboring countries, and its
composition is different. Pakistan relies more on the private sector to finance
health services, with the public sector supplying only 1.04X of GNP (the ratio
of public health expenditure to GNP has subsequently fallen to 0.97X in 1990 but
was projected at 1.05Z for 1991 - see Annex 1, Table 10).   Although this
represents almost a doubling over the past decade, it is still low compared to
other countries at the same development level.  On a per capita basis, total
health expenditures were estimated at US$11.40 in 1987, about the same level as
India, China or Sri Lanka; public health expenditures were US$4 per capita, i.e.
higher than in China but slightly less than in Sri Lanka. Compared to these
countries, however, female life expectancy in Pakistan is up to 20 years less,
and infant mortality is more than three times as high.
33.   In the 1960s and 1970s, very high proportions of public investment in the
health sector were spent on urban hospitals and medical training with less than
101  spent  on  rural  health.    Following  the  start  of  the  rural health
infrastructure construction program in the mid-1980s, the proportion of the
investment budget spent on rural health, preventive and nutrition programs has
risen markedly to about 55-601 of the total (see Annex 1, Table 11). As the
construction program is completed, this proportion is gradually reducing.
Overall, health and population typically account for 5-61 of the total public
investment budget. The present level of the recurrent budgets is barely adequate
to cover operating costs in all provinces; salaries take about 551, leaving 201
for medicines and 251 for other running costs such as chemicals, patient diets'
and repairs and maintenance (1988/89). Hospitals absorbed some 75-80X of the
1989/90 provincial recurrent budgets (see Annex 1, Tables 12 and 13).
34.   The financing of the sector raises a number of issues.  First, despite
modest increases in the federal development budget in recent years, a further
substantial increase in the development budget for 1990/91 and the proposal in
mid-1990 to establish a national lottery with the profits earmarked for the
health sector, under-investment in the public sector is likely to continue. Unit
costs in similar facilities vary considerably, and there are substantial gains
2 Health Sector in Pakistan: A Financing and Expenditure Study, Ministry of Planning and Development,
confidential final report, April 1988.



- 13 -
in productivity to be achieved through a better organization of services.
Nevertheless, additional resources are needed to address growing environmental
problems and break the vicious circle of communicable, infectious and parasitic
diseases; at a time of fiscal constraint, these will need to come mainly from
reallocations from other sectors.   Second, provincial recurrent budgets are
strongly biased towards hospitals and medical training, with only a slowly
increasing proportion (now around 251) allocated for rural health. With the
recent rapid expansion in facilities, the allocation for rural health services
will need to be increased sharply. Third, the projected 801 increase in staff
over the next decade will also require substantial recurrent budget increases.
35.   The growing financing needs of the sector present major challenges to the
government. These include: (a) a clearer understanding of the respective roles
of the public and private sectors; (b) the availability of resources to finance
the public share; (c) the transfer of resources from the federal investment
budget to the provinces which are responsible for financing recurrent
expenditure; and (d) the promotion of private sector schemes.   The 1990 health
policy includes various financing proposals particularly involving expansions
to social security and health insurance schemes; encouraging the establishment
of private practices in rural areas; and increased community involvement in
facility management and financing.  Increased user charges are not directly
addressed in the new policy. Recent attempts to increase the present very small
user charges have been withdrawn in the face of vigorous public protests.
Charging users of rural health facilities would only raise limited resources
without improving equity or usage in the short term, but there is much scope for
increased user charges at public hospitals as fees paid for private sector care
are high  and growing.    Testing alternative  solutions,  including various
modalities for community financing, will be necessary before major reforms are
introduced in the public sector.
D. Sector Development Strategy
36.   Government Strategy - The government's broad development strategy for the
health sector is contained within the Seventh Plan and the 1990 health policy.
Five points are highlighted: (a) health services should be effective, efficient,
affordable and acceptable; (b) priority should be given to disease prevention,
health promotion, and curative and rehabilitative services; (c) the need for
universal service coverage; (d) the importance of the participation of
individuals and communities in health activities; and (e) the integral part that
health activities play in development. To translate these principles into action
the policy focuses on service availability, decentralization, encouraging the
private sector, improving drug availability and the referral system, updating
the legal and regulatory framework, and supporting the traditional medical
systems. Specific targets for improvements in health status and nutrition are
included. It seeks to achieve, by the year 2000, universal health cover, free
services confined to those who cannot afford to pay, decentralization of the
administration, and provision of the necessary trained staff.  These targets
are ambitious. However, significant progress towards achieving them could be
made if the major impediments to implementing a functioning primary care system
are addressed, combined with some increase in and reallocation of resources (see
above).



- 14 -
37.   Currently, government intentions for population are less clear, although
it may have a higher priority than during the past decade. The necessity of
providing family planning services at all health outlets is emphasized,
particularly as a routine part of the health services, and the successful
implementation of this would significantly improve the availability of family
planning services, since the network of health facilities and their associated
outreach workers is much more extensive than that of the population program,
Consideration was given, during the development of the 1990 health policy, to
amalgamating the service delivery functions of the two departments.   The
potential for improved coverage or savings from combining the two systems was
though to be outweighed by the need to maintain a separate population focus and
the ultimate decision was to keep the status quo. More generally, until some
of the shortcomings of past government population efforts (see above) are
vigorously addressed -- especially obtaining strong and sustained political
commitment to the program -- the prospects for a successful population program
are limited.
38.   IDA Strategy - The strategy for IDA assistance is to help the government
in further refining and particularly in implementing a coherent, affordable and
technically sound health and population program from within the present policy.
For both health and population, the priorities are to: (a) improve the system's
quality; (b) improve the internal efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the
existing system; (c) strengthen the institutional capability of the system; (d)
provide the required human and management resources; and (e) investigate the
public and private sector options for financing health expenditure. The focus
will therefore be on improving the utilization of existing facilities; new
construction will focus on upgrading facilities and on expanding training and
support programs. Investment will concentrate on the development of both the
quality and quantity of human resources and on the capability of the system to
provide and finance the necessary level of services. Particular attention will
be given to the needs of women, and the rural and urban poor. The government's
ability to continue to assume its fundamental public health responsibilities
including those for preventive care, control of communicable diseases, emergency
services, service provision for the poor, and promotive programs including
increasing the availability and integration of family planning services will be
strengthened.   As part of this strategy, for example,  specific steps were
included in the recent macroeconomic adjustment program to preserve levels of
real per capita (recurrent) sectoral expenditure despite severe public budgetary
constraints.
39.   External Sunnort - Foreign assistance for the health and population sector
has been significant but generally not of a scale similar to that received by
some nearby countries. For population, support has been substantial with USAID
traditionally being the largest financier; UNFPA, ODA and IDA have also made
significant contributions. About 65X of the budget of the population program
is aid financed. Foreign assistance has played a much smaller role in the health
program. Again, USAID has usually been the largest single donor with UNICEF,



- 15 -
CIDA, JICA and ADB assisting substantially/. Donor coordination operates at a
local informal level.
40.   Lessons Iearned - IDA has had no previous health sector projects; there
is, therefore, no direct experience to draw upon.  A population project was
completed in December 1989H/.   It supported key elements of the then new
Population Welfare Plan especially through national training and information
programs and through regional population service delivery. The projet. achieved
only limited success due to:  (a) the erosion of political support for the
population program; (b) an under-estimate of the institutional constraints on
implementation,   including  limited  managerial  and  technical  capacity,
administrative rigidities, and the problems of establishing a project
administration cell; and (c) difficulties arising from the unusual distribution
of responsibilities for the program between the federal and provincial levels.
IDA experience in supporting education projects is also relevant.   Problems
experienced include:   (a) implementation difficulties arising from national
projects involving multiple provinces; (b) lack of integration of project
management with main stream government administration; (c) the extended time
needed for establishing innovations in the system; and (d) the need to adopt
construction standards that are familiar and realistic. The experience of the
major donors in the health sector was also reviewed; experience has been mixed.
Major points included:   (a) substantial delays in project start due to
difficulties in preparation and approval of government project documentation;
(b) problems in appointment of project staff and their level of authority ; and
(c) the need for sustained external technical support.
41.   Most of these lessons have been taken into account in the preparation of
the proposed project. Some are not directly relevant, for example, due to the
different administrative structures of the health and population systems.
Lessons incorporated include: (a) the desirability of limiting the numbers of
provinces involved in order to streamline preparation and implementation; (b) the
use of realistic implementation schedules; (c) the need to establish
implementation mechanisms that are sufficiently flexible to take account of
implementation experience and unforeseen outcomes; (d) the importance of having
project implementation staff of sufficient seniority in position, together with
the required government project approvals, as early as possible; (e) not creating
parallel project implementation hierarchies and working through the existing
systems; and (f) simplifying project design as far as possible but consistent
with maintaining technical standards.
42.   IPA's Role - The needs in the sector are enormous but absorptive
constraints are severe. Important areas are being addressed by the government
and donor agencies but there remain many key subjects which are not currently
It The major donors to primary health are: ADB (rural health infrastructure, equipment maintenance,
health manpower), CIDA (immunization. nursing, TBA training), ODA (nursing, population, equipment and
maintenance), UNICEF (4amunisation, oral rehydration, health education, nutrition), and USAID (child
survival, population, malaria).
al Pakistan Population Project, Credit 1350-PAK, with IDA financing of $18.0 million, approved in April
1983.



- 16 -
receiving any real support. IDA's initial role in the sector would be to focus
on developing a relatively modest project supporting priority elements, within
those which are not presently being strengthened, in a specific geographical
area. This should be seen as the first phase of IDA's involvement in the sector
and, given satisfactory performance and a deepening knowledge of the sector,
follow-up projects could be anticipated. The proposed project has been developed
starting from an identification mission in January 1989. Bank sector reports
from 1983 and particularly that for 1988 were heavily drawn upont/ as was
experience with the closed Population Project and other donors' experience. The
project was mainly prepared by government officials with technical support from
local NGOs and universities; preparation work was partly funded through an
US$200,000 IDA Project Preparation Facility advance. Three project development
workshops, mainly for senior provincial and district health officials and staff
from the supporting institutions facilitated by IDA missions, were held.
II. The Project
A. Objectives and Summarv DescriRtion
43.   The project proposed for IDA financing has three main objectives:
a.     to improve the health status of the population within the project
provinces;
b.     to increase the effectiveness of the existing health care network;
and
c.     to build the institutional capacity to realize the above objectives
and to set the stage for future interventions.
44.   The proposed project is focused on the provinces of North-West Frontier
(NWFP) and Sindh (estimated total population 43.9 million in 1990). NWFP and
Sindh were selected because of: poor health indicators, especially in the rural
and urban slum areas; the presence of motivated public health professionals; and
strong support from the local administrations. This choice was the outcome of
negotiations with the federal and provincial governments, which included the
understanding that, given satisfactory progress, similar projects would be
considered subsequently for the remainder of the country. Annexes 1 (Tables 1
and 2) and 2 present background information on the health sector in NWFP and
Sindh and on the provincial features which affect primary health services"/.
45.   The project's three main components, which are complementary to other
continuing and planned sector activities in Pakistan, are:
* Pakistan Bealth Sector Report, September 30, 1983 (report No. 4736-PAX) and Pakistan Health and
Population Sector Report, June 28, 1988 (Report No. 7349-PAX).
V.
1 Health servioes in the Federally AdmLiistered Tribal Areas (FATA) (1990 estimated population 2.9
milllon) are financed by the federal government but administered, on behalf of the federal government, by  -*
the NhFP Department of Health. In day-to-day work, no real distinction is made by the Health Department
between the Tribal Areas and IWFP itself. For ease of presentation throughout the text, NWFP should be read
as includins the PATA unless stated otherwise.



* 17 -
Strenpthening Health Services (US$35.4 million).   Aims at improving health
services in two priority fields: (a) introducing an enhanced package of maternal
health services including family planning, and (b) integrating and expanding
communicable disease control activities, mainly in rural areas but with some
experiments in urban areas, through:
a. improved access to services including:
i. expanding traditional birth attendant training;
ii. experimenting with and introducing community health workers;
iii.posting additional staff, particularly female paramedical staff;
iv. strengthening the referral system; and
v. enhancing emergency handling capacity;
b. improved quality of services including:
i. introducing in-service training for field staff;
ii. upgrading facilities and equipment at selected Basic Health Units
and MCH Centres;
iii.improving the availability of essential medicines and supplies;
iv. strengthening diagnostic capacities in rural facilities;
v. making family planning services available in all health facilities;
and
vi. increasing management and supervision capability;
c. improved utilization of services including:
i. introducing a health education program; and
Li. encouraging community involvement with local health services; and
d. experimenting with similar activities to the above in two urban slum
areas of Karachi (Sindh).
Staff DevelopMent (US$7.1 million). Aims at improving staff capabilities and
performance and increasing the number of female paramedical staff through:
a. a comprehensive, on-going training program for existing primary health
care staff;
b. expanded female paramedical training capacity and improved staff
retention by:
i. establishing a nursing college in Sindh and a new combined nurse
paramedical school in NWFP;
ii. rehabilitating and expanding 3 existing nurse and paramedical
schools in NWFP; and
iii.improving training quality, trainee recruitment schemes, incentives
and job enhancement programs.
Management and Organizational Development (US$20.4 million). Aims at improving
management capabilities through:
a. increased management institutional capacity including:
i. establishing provincial and district management units;



- 18 -
ii. establishing provincial project management units; and
iii.developing a project related monitoring and evaluation program and
project follow-up activities; and
b. improved management quality and efficiency including:
i. introducing systematic management training;
ii. increasing decentralization of authority to the district level;
iii.developing monitoring, information and financial systems; and
iv. strengthening supervisory skills and practices;
c. preparation for future investments in: improved federal Ministry of
Health management; and health operational research capacity.
46.   The project will be implemented in phases, starting with four districts
in each province in the second year and then progressively expanding until all
districts in Sindh and NWFP (including the Agencies of FATA) are involved by
the end of the sixth year. It focuses on subject areas receiving limited or no
support currently and attempts to build on proved small-scale interventions for
which resources for expansion are unavailable. Several of these interventions
were pioneered by NGOs; the project will associate with at least one major NGO
in each province during the implementation phase. The project has been designed
to supplement external assistance already being received for the sector. Care
has been taken to coordinate with other donor agencies; operational mechanisms
for donor liaison in NWFP and Sindh are being strengthened. Representatives of
CIDA, ODA, UNICEF, USAID and Save the Children Fund participated in project
preparation missions. A summary project implementation chart is given at Annex
9.
B.  Detailed Project Description2/
Strenathening Health Services
(total US$35.4 million, of which Sindh US$20.3 million and NWFP US$15.1 million)
47.   This component aims at strengthening health services in two priority areas
by introducing an enhanced package of maternal health services including family
planning (also known as 'safe motherhood') and by improving the effectiveness
of communicable disease control activities.   The additional services to be
provided will supplement or strengthen existing services while some existing
services will be reorganized.   In summary (details are given in Annex 4),
services involved will be:
a. at the villag  level, where few services presently exist, expanding
and introducing prenatal care (including high risk pregnancy screening),
supervised delivery, postnatal care (including family planning and
nutrition) through trained TBAs and female CHWs; introducing minor
curative care, communicable disease case finding, and health and hygiene
promotion mainly through CHWs;
UZ Inputs to NWFP and Sindh are similar but are adjusted to meet provincial requirements.



19 -
b. at the MM level, ensuring that present curative and preventive services
function and especially strengthening prenatal, supervised delivery and
postnatal services, and adding links to the TBAs/CHWs and to referral
levels; introducing family planning; strengthening diagnostic services;
reorganizing tuberculosis and malaria control services; and enhancing
health education and nutrition activities;
c. at the BM level, as for she maternal health services at BHUs but with
the capability to handle higher risk cases, and also with a greater
focus on the preventive and promotive services;
d. at the tehsil hospital level, focusing on improved emergency care
services and inpatient tuberculosis treatment, with some minor
enhancement to district hospital maternal diagnostic services;
48.   Improved access to services will be obtained through:   (a) expanding
traditional birth attendant training; (b) experimenting with and introducing
community health workers; (c) posting additional staff, particularly female
paramedical staff; (d) strengthening the referral system; and (e) enhancing
emergency handling capacity.
49.   Expanding TBA training - the project will support an expansion of the
well-established and continuing, mainly UNICEF financed, TBA training program,
create a link between the trained TBAs and the local primary health care
facility, and start in-service training. The task description of the TBA is
under central review, the curriculum and training plan will subsequently be
strengthened with UNICEF help, and training activities implemented through
phasing in local BHU/RHC staff and adjustments to the present TBA training teams.
The BHU/RHC will become responsible for the training and monitoring/support of
TBAs from the villages in its catchment area and its staff will provide
continuing education, five basic drugs, contraceptives, delivery kits and their
resupply, and monitoring of their referral pattern and record keeping. About
6,500 TBAs will be trained initially and receive refresher training and about
6,500 kits and their resupply plus supporting simple teaching materials will be
supplied.   (See the staff development component below for the modalities of
implementing this and other training.)
50. Experimenting with and introducing community health workers -
implementation of the policy decision to create this new cadre of village workers
has yet to start; some operational aspects have yet to be defined including how
they will be remunerated. At present, there is little outreach work from health
facilities and the introduction of community health workers would help fill this
gap. The project will define the task descriptions of both male and female CHW,
subsequently modify the existing training curriculum, and plan and implement
their training initially on an experimental basis. At least four different
modalities for paying these workers will be tried. Assuming that the experience
is satisfactory, the project would train some 8,500 CHWs initially, refresh that
training, and provide them with kits, basic drugs and contraceptives, and their
resupply.   Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that a review of
experience with Community Health Workers, both within and without Pakistan, will



- 20 -
be conducted under terms of reference to be agreed with the Association. The
study will be completed by December 1992 and the results discussed with the
Association before large numbers of province-wide Community Health Workers are
recruited and trained for provincial government employment.
51.   Posting additional staff. Rarticularly female paramedical staff - many
existing rural facilities are unable to offer health services for women due to
the lack of female paramedicals, nurses and, to a lesser extent, female medical
officers mainly in rural facilities.  Standard female staffing patterns vary
between Sindh and NWFP and so the provincial requirements differ somewhat. The
project will assist with the salaries of about 270 nurses, 300 Lady Health
Visitors and Female Health Technicians, and 23 female medical officers, which
are all incremental positions in rural facilities. (See below for the output
of trainees and their retention in the public health service.)
52. Strengthening the referral system - the rapid identification and proper
handling of emergencies is essential; it also helps establish the credibility
of the health system. Although contributing to improving the entire referral
system, the project seeks to give priority to the identification and referral
of obstetric emergencies through inclusio;z of risk assessment as a key item in
TBA and CHW training and establishing a s-srem for early referral to the BHU/RHC.
Referral support services will be iuiapved through better communications,
installing about 300 telephones and r&dioc for BHUs and RHCs, and the provision
of about 82 ambulances and 35 other veh:tclps.
53.   Enhancing emergency handling caRacity - upgrading existing emergency
surgical facilities, mainly at tehsil hosp. .:ls, to ensure that 24 hour services
are available for e.g. caesarian sections. Physicians, supplementally trained
through special surgical short courses, w.'ll be posted at tehsil and sub-
district hospitals where surgeons are not available.   About 56 operating
facilities will be refurbished, re-equippel -nd provided with the necessary
additional medicines at.d supplies, as well us 30 stand-by generators. Some 25
ultrasound machines will be installed in district hospitals.
54.   ImRroved quality of services will be obtained through:  (a) introducing
in-service training for field staff; (b) upgrading facilities and equipment at
selected Basic Health Units and MCH Centres; (c) improving the availability of
essential medicines and supplies; (d) strengthening diagnostic capacities in
rural facilities; (e) making family planning services available in all health
facilities; and (f) increasing management and supervision capability.
55.   Introducing  in-service  training  for  field staff  - as part  of  the
introduction of an organized in-service training system (see the Staff
Development component below), the project includes a program of re-training for
selected field staff of the key vertical communicable disease control programs
to integrate their work into the primary care system. To this end, the project
will provide for training materials and course costs for about 6 short courses
in each province on different topics/levels ranging from one week to one month.
56.   Uggrading facilities and equipment at selected Basic Health Units and MCH
Centres - renovations and upgrading to about 80 Basic Health Units and MCH



- 21 -
Centres, including the provision of labor and delivery facilities where none
presently exist and where there is a sufficiently large population, together
with essential equipment. Provision of nutrition and minor equipment to about
a further 1,000 BHUs and MCH Centres.
57.   Improving the availability of essential medicines and supplies - supplying
additional basic medicines and supplies, including micro-nutrients, first-line
antibiotics and contraceptives, to some 1,100 BHUs, RHCs and MCH Centres from
within an approved list of essential items graded to the type of facility.
58.   Strengthening diagnostic capacities in rural facilities - the work of the
existing very modest laboratories in the BHUs/RHCs will be strengthened through
re-training of existing personnel, as part of the integration of the present
vertically organized programs, and provision of additional essential supplies
and equipment including about 750 microscopes. Additionally, some 17 small X-
ray units for RHCs will be provided where none are presently available.
59.   Making family Rlanning services available in all health facilities - most
health facilities do not provide family planning services. The project will
build on training for health staff already begun by the Ministry of Population
Welfare and, through an integrated series of orientation and technical workshops
and provision of small amounts of supporting equipment and supplies, introduce
family planning services into all provincial government health facilities.
Family planning will be integrated with all other routine health services
offered. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that, in advance of the
phasing of overall project implementation by districts, about half of the
government health facilities in Sindh and NWFP will offer family planning
services by December 1993 and all such facilities will offer family planning
services by July 1995.
60.   Increasing management and supervision capacity - see the Management and
Organization component below.
61.   Improved utilization of services will be obtained through: (a) introducing
a health education program; and (b) encouraging community involvement with local
health services.
62.   Introducing a health education program - health and nutrition education
activities are rudimentary.   The project will establish a nucleus of health
education professionals such that there will be a basic public health education
capability in each district by the end of the project.   Education materials
production will normally be contracted out. Through the in-service training
program and adaption of pre-service curricula (see below), health and nutrition
education will be integrated into the routine work of all primary health care
staff. The project will provide about 30 additional professional staff, basic
audio-visual equipment and supplies, and funds for materials production.
63.   Encouraging community involvement with local health services - through:
(a) an information campaign focussed on maternal health, family planning, and
communicable diseases; (b) recruitment of CHWs according to agreed criteria and
in consultation with the community; (c) decentralization of responsibility and



- 22 -
accountability for management, supervision and training as close as possible to
the target population (see below); and (d) experiments with the involvement of
Union Councils and possibly Village Health Committees in the management, review
and funding of BHUs and their outreach activities.
64.   Urban health experiments aim at (a) developing prototypes for urban health
services delivery and (b) improving cost effectiveness. They will implement
activities similar to those described above, adjusted to the conditions of the
Karachi slums, and will provide primary and outpatient secondary health services
to under-privileged groups. The focus will be on 2 slum areas each of 200,000
to 300,000 people.  A central feature will be the creation of comprehensive
clinics (filter clinics) to bring secondary level services closer to the
population and thereby decrease the overcrowding of hospital outpatient services.
Each filter clinic will be linked with some 10 PHC facilities each serving up
to 20,000 people; the clinic will coordinate with other service providers in
the area especially NGOs. The project will provide for the construction and
equipping of 2 filter clinics and 4 BHUs, minor renovations and equipment for
12 other facilities and 2 ambulances in addition to the similar inputs for
training and health education as for rural areas. Experimentation with different
forms of community financing of curative health services is also included.
Staff DeveloDment'
(total US$7.1 million, of which Sindh US$4.1 million and NWFP US$3.0 million)
65.  This component has two main sub-components which will:   (a) introduce
systematic training to refresh and improve the skills of some 12,000 existing
primary health care staff; and (b) increase the training capacity for female
paramedical staff (by 55 nurses and 60 LHVs annually) and improve the retention
of these types of staff once posted. In addition to new and expanded training
facilities, the project will provide resources to undertake a variety of
improvements to existing schools, for example, tutor training and education
materials development, so that they operate at higher capacities and that a
higher percentage pass final examination. Together these interventions should
result in total incremental increased output of at least 3 times the above
figures.
66.   A key constraint to improving the availability and use of maternal health
services is the limited number of female paramedical staff, especially in the
smaller rural health facilities. In the short-term, the project will address
this problem by providing comprehensive training to improve existing staff
capabilities, performance, and motivation"/. Past in-service training in both
provinces has been very limited and ad hoc, cadre by cadre. The proposed in-
service training program has been carefully planned in an integrated manner so
that training for different categories of staff inter-relates and that in-
service training and supervisory functions are linked (see the Management and
2 Further details on this comonent are given in Annex S.
*2 It should be noted that while the focus of these program wl-11 be on MCH services and female health
staff, the programs will involve all types of prlmary health care staff, male and female.



* 23 -
Organizational Development component below). Once started, it is designed to
be continuous. In the longer-term, the project will increase female paramedical
pre-service training capacity, and thereby output. It will also decentralize
pre-service training more to the district level (thereby making it more
culturally acceptable for girls to go to such schools).  In order for these
approaches to be effective, female staff must begin service after training and
be retained.0/
67. Ioroving staff caRabilities and performance will be carried out through
planning, preparing, implementing and evaluating job-specific training programs
for existing primary health care staff. This program will follow the district
phasing of other project activities. All staff will receive some in-service
training at least once a year. In-service training programs will be developed
at the provincial level through curriculum development workshops conducted with
technical assistance during the first project year. District level trainers will
be trained by provincial master trainers. The in-service training activities
will be coordinated and partly implemented through the Provincial and District
Health Development Centres (see below). Training for RHC and BHU staff in the
training and supervision of lower level workers, including those training and
supporting the TBA and the new CHW programs, is also incorporated (see
Strengthening Health Services above). In each province, about 30 different in-
service training programs are envisaged ranging from one day seminars to one
month courses with participants varying from physicians to TBAs and CHWs.
Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that the provincial staff
development team, which will be responsible for developing the provincial in-
service training programs, will be established and adequately staffed by July
1992.
68.   Increasing the annual outRut caoacitv of female Raramedical staff31 and
imRroving retention of these types of staff by: (a) establishing of a nursing
college in Sindh and a new combined nurse paramedical school in NWFP; (b)
rehabilitating and expanding 3 existing nursing and paramedical schools in NWFP;
and (c) improving training quality, trainee recruitment schemes, incentives and
job enhancement programs.
69.   Establishing a nursing college  in Sindh and a new combined nurse
paramedical school in NWFP - the project will provide for a nursing college in
Sindh to enhance the availability of nurse tutors and supervisory nurses, and
the establishment of a nurse/lady health visitor school in NWFP's Swat valley
to increase the availability of general nurses and female paramedical staff.
The project will provide for the construction, equipment, furniture and transport
for both facilities.
70.   Rehabilitating and expanding 3 existing nursing and Raramedical schools
in NWFP - the three nursing schools had been operational until 1989 when they
A3 AttritLon during training has not been reported as a major problem.
al Requirements for training school xpansion in Sindh have been coordinated with the Asian Development
Bank (ADB). The ADB, and the Government from its own resources, have already agreed to finance most of
these requirements.



- 24 -
were closed by the Pakistan Nursing Council mainly due to inadequate facilities
and the lack of teaching equipment/materials. The LHV schools at the same three
locations had been closed earlier for similar reasons. The project will provide
instructional facilities, hostels, and staff housing with requisite equipment,
furniture, and transport.
71.   ImRroving training auality. trainee recruitment schemes, incentives and
job enhancement prograMs - training quality improvement activities will include
funding for curriculum revision exercises, training trainers, teaching materials
and equipment provision, and improved testing and evaluation procedures
(supported by foreign and national consultants).   Improved recruitment efforts
for females will be achieved through motivation campaigns, using mass media and
faculty-family visits, to clarify the realities and benefits of female
paramedical careers; enhancing the training stipends and service conditions and
incentives, particularly for rural service; and housing and transport security
for female paramedical staff both during training and service. These measures
will improve staff retention. In addition, job enhancement work will continue
on improving the definition of career paths for female staff, integration of
cadres with similar training, and making minimum rural service and rotation
requirements clear (guaranteeing progression to more attractive positions subject
to satisfactory performance and minimum in-service training requirements). The
present system of incentives and allowances, which does not recognize the
disadvantages of working in rural areas, particularly for females, is under
federal review. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that a review of
the incentives and service conditions of female paramedical staff, both during
training and subsequent employment, will be conducted by December 1992, the
findings discussed with the Association, and the implementation of agreed
measures started by December 1993.
Management and Organizational Development'/
(total US$20.4 million, of which Sindh US$9.4 million, NWFP US$10.8 million and
Federal US$0.2 million)
72.   The objective of this component is improved health management capabilities
through (a) increased management institutional capacity; (b) improved management
quality and efficiency; and (c) preparation for improved federal management and
operational research capacity.   The component will facilitate the effective
utilization of investments in the other two components, particularly at the
district level and below.
73.   Increased management institutional capacity will be achieved through:
(a) establishing provincial and district management units; (b) establishing
provincial project management units; and (c) developing a project-related
monitoring and evaluation program and project follow-up activities.
74.   Establishing Rrovincial and district management units - Since neither in-
service training nor management development are recognized line activities of
the provincial health departments, it will be necessary for the project to
Further details on this component are given in Annex 5.



- 25 -
encourage the institutionalization of these important activities. To this end,
a Provincial Health Development Centre (PHDC) will be established in both Sindh
and NWFP comprising four units:   management development, staff development,
health and nutrition education and research/monitoring. (Health and nutrition
education is included since it needs to be integrated into staff's routine
activities and since it is particularly undeveloped.) The basic operational
strategy for all these functions is in-service training reinforced by supportive
supervision. In addition, a modest District Health Development Centre (DHDC)
will be established in each district headquarters to assist the district team's
work and to provide some limited residential in-service training facilities.
The PHDC, supported by the DHDCs, will be responsible for facilitating and
assisting with the implementation of much of the project training program, both
for technical in-service and management training.   Further details of the
structure and functions of the PHDC and DHDCs are given in the Project Management
and Implementation section below.
75.   Civil works will be  required  for constructing  the  two  PHDCs,  for
establishing about 30 DHDCs and for minor upgrading to the district/division
health offices.   Equipment and furniture needs are mainly for office and
reproduction equipment (including computers and basic software), training
equipment and associated supplies. Mobility is essential for the district teams
and about 65 vehicles, mostly 4-wheel drive, will be provided. There will be
some 100 planning management workshops in each province during the project.
Funds are included for teaching materials, local and foreign consultants, and
for fellowships. The incremental operating costs arising from the above for
salaries and allowances and vehicle operating costs are included. Assurances
were obtained at Negotiations that: (a) at least 75 percent of the professional
staff of the Provincial Health Development Centres will be recruited or
transferred in by the end of July 1992 with the Centres being fully staffed by
July 1993; and (b) that at least 75 percent of the professional staff for the
District Health Development Centres will be recruited or transferred in by the
end of the first year in which they are scheduled to begin operations with the
balance appointed during the second year of operation.
76.   Establishing Rrovincial oroJect management units - the project will finance
the establishment and operation of a Project Implementation Unit in each province
including essential staff, supplies, transport, and office equipment needed for
project monitoring and supervision. Provision for training for project staff
and for regular bi-annual inter-provincial coordination meetings is included.
To assist the development of any follow-up project, an allocation for the
preparation of such projects is included mainly to be used for the recruitment
of consultants. Further details on the project management arrangements are given
below.
77.   Developing a Rroject-related monitoring and evaluation program and Droject
follow-up activities - as part of the overall management information system
development (see below), steps will be taken through the Project Implementation
Unit to collect information on the project's plans, activities and costs for
monitoring, evaluating and reporting separately from the rest of the provinces'
operations. Indicators of progress in implementation for components are given
in Annexes 4 and 5.



- 26 -
78.   Improved management aualitv and efficiency will be achieved through:  (a)
introducing systematic management training; (b) increasing decentralization of
authority to the district level; (c) developing monitoring, information and
financial systems; and (d) strengthening supervisory skills and practices.
79.   Introducing systematic management training - an in-service management and
supervisory training system will be developed so that, from the district level
down, about 1230 primary care service managers in both provinces receive an
initial intensive program with regular refresher courses.   This program is
closely linked to the above technical in-service training programs. To ensure
consistency of district staff development, regular in-service training,
programming sessions and planning workshops will be held for the district teams
themselves, mainly conducted by provincial level staff.
80.   Increasing decentralization of authority to the district level -  the
delegation of increased program and financial authority to the district level
is envisaged in the new health policy but, at present, such delegation is
limited.   The Departments of Health are studying the problem and intend to
increase delegation levels insofar as it is within their administrative power.
The project will provide technical assistance to facilitate this process.
81.   DeveloDing monitoring. information and financial systems - these systems
must be linked to the operational and budget systems in order to record service
statistics and expenditure against plans; having both the planned and actual
information will best support management decision making. The foundation for
much of the above is the establishment of a functioning district level
information system which will build on existing pilot work supported by USAID.
The project will also strengthen the financial monitoring and budget preparation
process of the health sector in each province through analyzing the present
systems and procedures used, implementing improvements, and enhancing routine
monitoring.   Experimentation with different forms of community financin.g of
health services is also included.
82.   Strengthening sugervisory skills and practices - after initial training
at the PHDC and after improved supervisory procedures are developed, a member
from each district team will visit all health facilities in their respective
portion of the district, typically monthly, for a combination of in-service
training and supervision.   The district team will also be responsible for
planning, implementing and supervising the development of the health system in
their district through annual plans linked to the budget cycle, for maintenance,
logistics, and equipment provision.
83.   Pregaration for future investments in: improved federal Ministrv of Health
management: and health operational research capacitv. Some modest technical
assistance at the federal level will be provided to assist with developing two
important components for financing in any future project: (a) an organization
and management review, and subsequent development, of the Ministry of Health
itself; and (b) the establishment of a mechanism to stimulate the development
of health and population operational research.



* 27 -
84.   As an integral part of all three components of the project, provisLon is
made for a modest program of overseas fellowshigs. These will be awarded, for
the agreed subjects and durations, followlng standard government procedures.
Consultant services, to supplement and fill gaps in federal and provincial
knowledge and experlence, are provided.  While considerable expertise exists
within the country and will be tapped by the project (about 370 m/mi equivalent),
international consultants in selected areas will also be required (about 105
m/m).    Limited provision for studies and apDled research, mainly at the
provincial level, is also included.
C. nvironmental Considerations
85.   The proposed project was determined to be in screening Category C which
includes projects that are expected to have no significant negative environmental
impact. No environmental analysis has been prepared for this project.
Ill. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Costs and Flancing
86.   The total cost of the project is estimated at Rps 1,612 million or US$62.9
million  equivalent.    Base  costs  are  calculated  at US$52.7  million  and
contingencies at US$10.2 million. Physical contingencies represent US$3.1
million.   Price contingencies'/ (US$7.1 million) reflect Bank guidelines on
expected local and international price increases. The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$20.4 million or 321 of total project costs. Project costs
include incremental recurrent expenditure.   A summary of project costs by
components and categories of expenditure is presented below.
Table 3.1. PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENTS
IRUPEES MHIllion)          USS Million)
S Total                 S Total
I Foreign  Base         1 Foreign  Base
tocal   Foreign  Total   Exchange   Costs   tocal Foreign Total Exchange   CoDts
A. STRENGTHENING HEALTH SERVICES  445.49  219.15   664.63  33  56  19.82    9.75 29.57  33  56
8. STAFF DEVELOPMIENT   89.68   42.84    132.51  32  11   3.99  1.91  5.90  32  11
C. NANAGEMENT 8 ORGANIZATIONAL
DEVEtOPNENT          266.85  120.14   386.99  31  33  11.87    5.35 17.22  31  33
.-------        .
Totol BASELINE COSTS    802.01  382.12 1,184. 13  32  100  35.68    17.00 52.68  32  100
Physical Contingencies  47.04   23.31  70.35  33  6   2.09  1.04  3.13  33  6
Price Contingencies    243.45  114. 12   357.57  32  30   4.77    2.35  7. 12  33  14
Total PROJECT COSIS    1.092.50  519.55 1.612.05  32  136  42.55   20.39 62.93  32  119
March 27, 1991 15:09
;§ InternationaL price increases for each project year (July 1 - June 30), are set at: 6.4Z for 91/92,
2.32 for 92/93, 1.5% for 93/94, 2.32 for 94/95, 3.0 for 95/96, 3.8Z for 96/97 and 3.92 for 97/98. Local
prioe increases are set at: 9.0 for 91/92, and 6.02 subsequently.



PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT BASE COSTS
Table 3.2: Components and Categories of Expenditure
(US$ Thousands)
TOTAL
-I'INCNtAL HEALTH SERWAS-  -STAFF oEVELOPMENT-    -MANAGElN DEVEOMEN-   PGOT -TOTALS BY PVACEP-B
SUNDM     NVJP    FATA    TOTAL   SENoH    NWFP   FATA   TOTAL   SINDH   NfIFP   FATA  FE0ERAL TOTAL  COST    SINDH   t1                          FATA
L NVESTMENT OSTS
-Cbown                      1,W9     1,177      189    3,264       84    1,406        -    1,490    3,470    2,489        -        -    S,930   16,414    564S3    5.062       la9
-Equipnent                  2,406      107      361    4.864       37        79       -      116      611      362      66         -    1,026    60        38,056    2,63     416
- Fufniture                  216        30        56- t. 251        9        23       -       32      262       192  19            -      496      77       60S       26       26
-Vehkoh                    a3.199    1,783      223    6,204       38       191       -      229      771    1,686       -         -    2,436   ?7,89    4.008    3.638        223
-TraInIng                   2.074    1,731      189    3,9s4    1,921         -      60    1,971      300    1,362      182        -    1,835    7,7J      426s    3.066      421
-Toachnkoahlt                300       300        -        0oo    627       S2?       -    1,364       28      996       -        23    1.0406    ,00      1.16    1U22         0
-Heah Educ.Matululs           186      138        -      289       6s       129       -      198       81        -       -         -       S       6        30       202         0
-PPF                            -        -        -                 -         -       -        0        -                        200      20       200        0        0         0
SUBTOTAL       10,28    7,261       967   18s460    2,966    2,366       60    5,390    S,44    7,016      287      22     13,049   30    1877,m    IOi          1,274       I
L INFMM. OP.OSTS 
-    suldA§lowam           2,737    1,986      353    Sl0ss         -        -       -         0      912     M6s -               -    1,697           3,69    2,6t1          353
- OruguetsuppL             2,27    1,268       203    3,688        18       11       -        29        -        -       _        _        O      77    2,26    1,2:          203
-Vob. Op. Cost             1,747      489       124    2,381      402       74       -       476      766      417       -        -    1.181 X9418    2013           9M0      124
- Pet Manhgt.                  -        -        -                  -        -       -         0      an7      694       -        -    1,392   .            67       69         0
SUBTOTAL        6,711    3,713      6oo   11,106      421       86        -      605    2,73    1,798        -        a    4.169   tS6,7ff   0ss6    5S,          So
TOTAL BASE COST        16,969   10,974    1,637   29,671    3,406    2,440       60    5,896    7,916    8,812    267        223   17,218  S62        2,2                1
CONTWNOENCES         8,364   2,211       328    6,872       66s      462      13    1,161    1,470    1,673       63        2    3,214   1,?.   6.496    4,36?          403
T.:AL .IV2 .:M:S                         4,966..1: :   . . 2,99..*    7.060 :9 "04  .  .8    77  21   2,367
29-Mr-91



- 29 -
87.   Basis of Cost Estimates.  The costs of civil works are based on reviews
of recently awarded contracts in Sindh and NWFP for similar construction.
Estimates are based on final designs for standardized works and on preliminary
designs for other types of construction. Government Schedules of Rates have been
used and updated with allowable premiums where appropriate to reflect recent
tender experience. Costs of equipment, furniture, transport and supplies are
based on analyses of requirements for the project and derive from local market
prices or CIF unit prices, both adjusted to include local transportation and
installation, supplemented by recent experience of purchasing similar goods in
Sindh and NWFP. Costs of production of education materials, training, local and
expatriate consultants, applied research and other services reflect local or
international prices as applicable. Overseas fellowships are based on averaged
United Nations rates for training in Europe and North America. Costs of salaries
and allowances, including training allowances, are based on current Government
rates. Base costs reflect a Negotiations exchange rate of US$1 - Rps 22.48 and
include a price contingency adjustment between project appraisal and
negotiations.
88.   Customs Duties and Taxes.   Project costs include an estimated US$8.5
million in direct and indirect taxes and duties on civil works, goods and
services, to be financed by the Government.
89.   ContinQencY allowances.  Physical contingencies are estimated at 10  for
civil works, equipment, furniture, training, and medicines and supplies, and 5X
for vehicles and technical assistance.  Overall, they total US$3.1 million for
investment and recurrent costs and represent 5.91 of baseline costs or 5.0X of
total costs. Price contingencies between negotiations and the end of project
implementation are estimated at US$7.1 million on base cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 19.5X of the base cost.
90.   Foreign exchange comDonent.  The foreign exchange component is US$20.4
million including contingencies, or 32Z of total project costs.  It includes
indirect foreign cost, and is estimated as follows: 91 for civil works; 65X for
equipment; 50% for vehicles; 151 for furniture; 801 for foreign consultant
services; 1001 for overseas fellowships; 5X for local technical assistance; 401
for medicines and supplies; 201 for education materials; and 501 for vehicle
operating costs. These percentages are based on the expectation that: (i) all
civil works contracts will be awarded to local firms and most building materials
will be produced locally; (ii) 751 of medical equipment and 501 of other
equipment will be imported; and (iii) 851 of furniture will be purchased locally.
91.   Incremental recurrent costs generated by project implementation during the
seven-year period are estimated at US$15.8 million, of which US$6.7 million (421)
is for salaries and allowances, US$3.7 million (24%) is for medicines and
supplies, and US$5.4 million (34%) is for other incremental recurrent expenses
such as consumable education materials and vehicle operating costs.   The
estimated annual incremental recurrent cost for financial year 1998/9 is US$1.9
million and US$1.4 million respectively for Sindh and NWFP, or 31 and 41 of their
1990/91 recurrent budgets. These increases are modest since: (a) the project
design seeks to minimize additional recurrent costs; (b) a significant part of
the additional staff required, particularly medical officers, will be transferred



* 30 -
from existing positions rather than be appointed to new posts; and (c) the
project seeks to build on recent investments made by the government especially
for rural health infrastructure. While some increases in recurrent costs are
unavoidable in a project of this nature, there will be off-setting gains from
improvements in efficiency introduced through the project.   The approaching
completion of the rural health infrastructure construction program will also make
it easier for the government to meet the increased costs arising from the
project. However, since much of the project expenditure will be for rural health
and preventive programs, it would require some modest reallocation of existing
and/or additional recurrent resources towards these subjects and away from
hospital related expenditure. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that
each province will review annually with the Association the funds required for
the following fiscal year for carrying out both the project and for meeting all
recurrent health expenditures.  The recommendations from this review will be
reflected in the budget proposal for such fiscal year. The Federal Government
and the Association will also review annually the funds required for carrying
out the project to ensure the availability of such funds.
92.   Flow-of funds.  The funds for the project will be channelled through the
standard government system for large externally financed social development
projects; all externally financed items (see below) will be budgeted through
the federal government's development program and made available to the provinces,
with the balance coming from the provincial government's development program.
The average annual project expenditure will add approximately 14% and 10% to
the 1990/91 total health development allocations for Sindh and NWFP,
respectively. During project implementation, the allocations and expenditure
within the provincial health development program will be jointly reviewed by
the government and IDA to confirm that adequate resources will be available for
provincial rural health services and preventive programs.  Project inputs to
strengthen government budgeting and financial monitoring will facilitate this
process.
93.   ProLect financing.  The total project cost of US$62.9 million equivalent
will be financed by the Government, IDA, the British Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) and the Save the Children Fund (UK) (SCF). The proposed
IDA credit of US$45.0 million equivalent will finance about 72% of total project
cost including 64% of the local costs (US$27.3 million).   Under parallel
arrangements, (a) ODA will finance US$2.8 million equivalent for investment
costs in the FATA plus fellowships and short term technical assistance in NWFP;
and (b) SCF will finance US$1.0 million equivalent for long term technical
assistance in NWFP. Together, the IDA credit and the parallel financing will
cover 100% of the foreign exchange component (US$20.4 million) and 67% of the
local costs (US$28.4 million).   The Government will finance the balance of
project costs, including taxes and duties (US$14.1 million).   The proposed
financing plan is shown below.



31 -
Table 3.3. FINANCING PLAN (US$ Million)
IDA
Category of Expenditure       Gov't    IDA     ODA      SCF    Total   Financing
Civil works                    1.3    11.4     0.2       -     12.9        88
Equipment                      1.7     5.3     0.4       *      7.4        72
Furniture                      0.1     0.8     0.0       -      0.9        82
Vehicles                       4.1     4.9      0.1             9.2        53
Tech. Assistance               0.4     1.2     0.8      1.0     3.5        36
Training/Educ. Mats/F.ships    0.1     9.1     1.2       -     10.4        87
Salaries                       2.7     5.0       -              7.7        65
Medicines/Op. Costs            3.6     5.4       -       -      9.0        60
Project Management/Research     -      1.6       -       -      1.6       100
P. Prep. Facility               -      0.2       -       -      0.2       100
. . .... ...... ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total                         14.1    45.0      2.8     1.0    62.9        72
B. Project Management and ImRlementation
94.   The project will be implemented by line agencies of the Sindh and NWFP
provincial governments, reinforced with technical assistance and selected
institutional modifications. The principal implementing agencies will be the
provincial Departments of Health, and within those Departments:   the Deputy
Directorates for:   (a) Basic Health Services, and (b) Communicable Disease
Control; the Inspectorate of Health Services; and the Provincial and District
Health Development Centres. All project activities will be facilitated by the
Project Implementation Units in the DOH. (See below for further details.)
95.   At the most senior level, to provide a forum for interdepartmental project
coordination and to guide project implementation, provincial project Steering
Committees would be established in Sindh and NWFP.  The Committees will be
chaired by the provincial Secretary of Health and include the Secretary of
Population Welfare, Director of Health Services, senior representatives of
Finance, Planning & Development, Communications and Works, senior DOH staff and
representatives of cooperating universities, medical colleges, and NGOsI'. The
Project Directors will be the member/secretary and the Committees will meet
initially at least every three months.   Both Committees have been formed.
Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that each province will establish
by December 1991 a project Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Health
and composed of senior officials and representatives of universities and
34 Representation would vary a little between provinces: for example, in Sindh senior representatives
from the Karachi Municipal Corporation would attend.



- 32 -
non-governmental organizations, which will coordinate and provide overall
guidance in project implementation.
96.   In each province, the provincial project components will be implemented
by the DOH through a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU). This is standard
governDment terminology and does not imply the establishing of parallel management
systems; the PIU will work closely with and through existing line management
(see below).   Under the authority of a Project Director, reporting to the
Secretary, the PIU will: (a) facilitate and supervise all project activities;
(b) take all necessary steps to ensure prompt and efficient implementation of
the construction program by the Department of Communications and Works;
(c) conduct all other bidding, procurement3m' and disbursement operations;
(d) prepare budgets, monitor project progress and expenditure, maintain
accountsw/, and arrange for audits; and (e) liaise with IDA and ensure adherence
to Credit Agreement provisions.   The PIU full-time staff will include, in
addition to the Director, a Deputy Director, an engineer/architect, a procurement
specialist, an accountant and support personnel.  Project Directors and some
staff have already been appointed and transferred-in; the remainder will be
appointed as project work increases during 1991.  A diagram summarizing the
provincial implementation arrangements is at Chart 2. Assurances were obtained
during Negotiations that each provincial Project Implementation Unit will be
established and staffed by January 1992, the Project Implementation Units will
remain adequately staffed with full-time personnel, and they will operate until
the closing date of the project.
97.   The Provincial Project Directors will establish advisory project Technical
Committees, chaired by the Directors of Health Services. These committees will
capitalize on the knowledge of specialists, inside and outside government but
at a lower level than in the project Steering Committee, to resolve rapidly
operational problems that arise.  The Technical Committee will meet monthly
during the early stages of project implementation and less frequently thereafter.
98.   Under the overall guidance of the provincial Director of Health Services,
the Deputy Director for Basic Health Services (DDBHS) has overall responsibility
for Rrimary health services enacting the programs in close collaboration with
the other Deputy Directors concerned, particularly the Deputy Director for
Communicable Disease Control (malaria, health education, etc.), and with the
Inspectress of Health Services who is in charge of the delivery and supervision
of maternal and child health and family planning"'/ services. The DDBHS and the
Inspectress of Health will be mainly responsible for implementing the project
activities dealing with the first component (Strengthening of Health Services)
within their respective areas of responsibility. The Project Director will be
responsible for the timely delivery of project inputs, for assisting with their
effective integration into the package of services provided at public health
* In Sindh, the Department of Industries handles all purchasing on behalf of the DOB.
31 In NWFP, separate records will be maintained for FATA.
3Z In close collaboration with the provincial Population Welfare Department.



- 33 -
facilities, and for facilitating coordination with the Deputy Directors
responsible for hospitals and other Deputy Directors and equivalents concerned.
At the district level, one of the existing Assistant District Health Officers
will be responsible for coordinating project activities under the overall
guidance of the District Health Officer.
99.   For the second component (Staff Development), the implementation of the
upgrading and expansion of the existing female paramedical and nursing schools
will be through the regular DOH channels and therefore be mainly the
responsibility of the Inspectress of Health Services, the professional heads of
discipline and senior tutors of the institutions concerned. The Project Director
will facilitate this process.
100. The in-service training aspects of the staff development component and the
third component (Kanagement and Organizational Development) will be mainly
implemented through the Provincial Health Development Centre (PHDC) and the
associated District Development Centres (DHDC). The PHDCs, one in Peshawar and
one in Hyderabad, will be responsible for facilitating the implementation of
the provincial level aspects of the management development program, the manRower
development programs, the health and nutrition education program, and the
supporting research and monitoring activities.  It will comprise four units,
one for each main subject; the Director of the PHDC will report to the Director
of Health Services.   Where suitable Government staff already exist,  e.g.
technical trainers, they will be transferred into the PHDC; the remainder will
be recruited and trained. Substantial technical assistance has been included
to support the PHDC, especially in the early project years. As in the first
component, the Project Director will be responsible for the timely delivery of
project inputs to the PHDC and for facilitating PHDC activities and their
coordination with other on-going provincial activities. Further details on the
PHDC, its functions and staffing are given in Annex 6.
101. At the district level, the above activities will be implemented through
District Health Development Centres (DHDC) located in each district headquarters
town.   Each DHDC will:   (a) serve as a faciLity for training health staff,
particularly mid-level female pexr.,nnel; (b) be a district health and nutrition
education center; (c) be a district health staff meeting center; (d) be a center
for holding workshops, seminars and training community leaders; (e) conduct small
scale studies; and (f) be a library and resource center. These centers will be
headed by a senior medical officer supported by two paramedical tutors and one
health/nutrition education officer. The staff officers of the District Health
Office and the District Headquarters Hospital will be resource persons for the
DHDC.   The head of the DHDC will report to the District Health Officer on
administrative matters, as do all district staff, and to the PHDC on technical
matters. The DHDC will provide key assistance to the District Health Officer
in orientating and supporting the district health management teams. The Project
Director will facilitate the establishment of the DHDCs either through the PHDC
or the district line management as appropriate. The introduction of the DHDCs
will follow the same phasing as that of their respective districts.
102. Key technical support for the PIU, PHDC, DHDCs, and for project
implementation generally will be provided by local NGOs and universities. This



- 34 -
will consist of technical advice and long-term support to crucial areas for
project implementation, particularly the (a) management development and (b)
staff development activities of the PHDCs and the technical underpinning for
the health services development component.   Subjects to be addressed include
management information systems, training of trainers, curricula development,
community worker training, nutrition, gynecology and community involvement. In
Sindh, the internationally known Department of Community Health Sciences of the
Aga Khan University would provide this support. They have a substantial well-
qualified professional staff with a strong orientation to primary health care
development who have been associated with the development of this project from
the beginning. The Department's pioneering experimental schemes have provided
the foundation for parts of this project. Relevant experience in NWFP is more
limited but the project would draw on the expertise of the Department of
Community Medicine of the Khyber Medical College and on that of a well-
established NGO, the Save the Children Fund.   Both organizations have solid
experience in the subjects to be addressed by the project.  Assurances were
obtained during Negotiations that arrangements with local universities and non-
governmental organizations for obtaining technical support for the project by
the provinces will begin during the first project year and continue throughout
the project.
103. The technical assistance program will be instrumental in achieving project
objectives and, in particular, for the implementation of the training program,
the management development component and for conducting the applied studies.
(All technical assistance and fellowship requirements in NWFP will be financed
by ODA and SCF.) The Provincial PIUs will be responsible for the procurement
of technical assistance, as appropriate.   Assurances were obtained during
Negotiations that Association-financed consultants will be recruited in
accordance with Bank Guidelines dated August 1981.
104. The implementation of the very small management technical assistance
activity at the federal level will be the responsibility of the already nominated
project contact points - - the Deputy Director General (Development) for technical
matters and the Joint Secretary (Development) for administrative and managerial
matters. They will also liaise with the provinces on project matters and will
work in close coordination with other MOH Deputy Directors concerned, under the
overall guidance of the MOH Director General and Secretary. (ODA will finance
this sub-component.)
105. In accordance with standard government practice in Pakistan, the respective
NWFP and Sindh Departments of Communlcatlons and Works (C&W) will be responsible
for the civil works aspects of the project including site surveys, preparation
of line plans, working drawings, and specifications and tender documents. Once
contracts were awarded, C&W will provide site supervision and progress reports.
The supervision costs, including transport and supplementary staff where
necessary, will be borne by the project. Both provincial C&W departments have
the necessary technical competence to implement the civil works included in the
project.
106. New construction in the project comprises: (a) medium sized facilities
consisting of two filter clinics in Karachi, four nursing schools in NWFP (three



- 35 -
expansions and one new) and one nursing college in Sindh (varying from
US$200,000-US$300,000 equivalent per institution); and (b) two PHDCs and about
30 DHDCs which are modest in scale and geographically dispersed (varying from
US$100,000-US$200,000 equivalent). Standardized designs for all DOH facilities
in both provinces will be used to the extent possible since concepts are simple,
functional and well adapted to local conditions.   Renovations/extensions to
existing DOH buildings include rehabilitation of 80 existing BHUs to include
labor suites, upgrading of emergency facilities in 56 tehsil hospitals. Most
of the extensions are small (under US$50,000 equivalent) while the bulk of
renovations fall under a much lower cost threshold (under US$10,000 equivalent).
107. Almost all construction will be at existing DOH owned locations. Proof
of ownership of sites for all major construction including the two filter clinics
in Karachi, the nursing school in Swat (NWFP) and the two PHDCs has been
provided, as well as for the first two years construction program of DHDCs.
Funds required for the acquisition of further DHDC sites will be provided through
the provincial budgets.   Line plans have been prepared for all major new
construction. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that all remaining
sites will be acquired and available by December 1993.
108. Monitoring and evaluation. The provincial Project Directors will monitor
and report independently every six months, typically in February and August, on
project progress within their respective areas of responsibility. The provincial
reports will be based on reports from the districts and from the provincial
departments and directorates concerned, in addition to the PIU's regular field
supervision. Monitoring will be structured for each major project intervention
with routine monitoring limited to indicators of inputs, activities and resultant
outputs; the main indicators that will be used are summarized in Annexes 4 and
5. DOH monitoring and evaluation capabilities will be substantially strengthened
through the establishment of the Research, Monitoring and Evaluation Units in
the PHDCs and DHDCs. Also, the development and introduction of the Management
Information System will greatly facilitate project monitoring. Small special
district based evaluation studies, typically one or two per year, will supplement
the routine monitoring and will investigate for example the incidence of a major
disease targeted by the project. In Sindh, the Aga Khan University and, in NWFP,
the Khyber Medical College and Save the Children Fund would provide technical
support for project monitoring. A joint government and IDA mid-term review of
the project will be held in early 1995. As is normal practice, the monitoring
and evaluation cells of the provincial Planning and Development Departments will
also review project progress.  A Project Completion Report will be prepared.
Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that:  (a) semi-annual progress
reports will be prepared by the Project Directors and submitted to IDA; and (b)
a Project Completion Report will be submitted by the governments to IDA, within
six months of the closing date of the project.
109. Development projects in Pakistan must be presented to the approving
government authorities in a prescribed detailed format, known as a PC-1.  A
project such as this does not fit easily into the PC-1 format since
implementation of the many different small components requires more flexibility
than is typically permitted in a PC-1. Before Negotiations, draft PC-ls for
the project were prepared and reviewed to ensure that they were satisfactory to



- 36 -
IDA. Approval of the project PC-1 by the Executive Committee of the Federal
Government's  National  Economic  Council  would  be  a  condition  of  Credit
Effectiveness.
110.  IDA Supervision Requirements.   The project will require intensive IDA
supervision, particularly in the first three project years of operation, to help
ensure that project start-up and early implementation proceed as scheduled.
Initial annual supervision requirements are estimated to be at least 18 staff-
weeks.
C. Procurement
111. Procurement will be conducted for each province separately. Procurement
methods are summarized in the table below.   For civil works,  the two C&W
Departments have the administrative capacity and experience to procure numerous
small and medium sized construction contracts in both urban and remote rural
areas which comprise the project. The accounting and auditing procedures at
provincial and district levels are designed to ensure that funds are well spent,
and that contractors are paid promptly. Experience in both provinces has shown
that larger contractors have not shown interest in bidding on small dispersed
contracts. Therefore, the civil works program will be procured as a series of
small individual contracts (average contract size, including contingencies, is
estimated at US$50,000 equivalent) with groupings of contracts, where geographic
proximity and project scheduling permit particularly for urban areas, to
encourage the participation of larger contractors. All contracts for civil works
financed by IDA will be awarded through local competitive bidding, in accordance
with procedures which are acceptable to the Association. IDA's prior approval
will be required for the first contract in each province, to ensure compliance
with Bank guidelines, and for all individual civil works contracts exceeding
US$100,000; other contracts will be subject to post-award reviews.   About
US$200,000 equivalent of civil works contracts financed by ODA will be awarded
following ODA's standard procedures
112. To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, furniture and medicines
financed by IDA with an estimated aggregate value of US$12.6 million including
contingencies, will be grouped to permit bulk procurement of at least US$200,000
equivalent. Contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000 will be awarded
on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts of less than
US$200,000 each, but not exceeding US$2.5 million in total, will be awarded on
the basis of LCB in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
Items which cannot be grouped into economical packages, which in aggregate should
not exceed US$1.5 million, will be procured locally or internationally through
prudent shopping, after obtaining at least three price quotations in contracts
not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent.   Medical  equipment  for small health
facilities could be procured from UNICEF, up to a total of US$2 million.
Contracts for vehicles financed by IDA, with an estimated aggregate value of
US$9.1 million including contingencies, will be awarded on the basis of ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines with the exception of six vehiclesXt (estimated
X Three for each province.



- 37 -
total cost US$100,000) which are required urgently to facilitate early project
implementation; they will be procured locally or internationally through prudent
shopping. A domestic preference of 15%, or the applicable duty, whichever is
less, will be given to suppliers of locally manufactured items for supply of
goods under ICB. IDA's prior approval will be required for individual contracts
exceeding US$100,000; other contracts will be subject to selective post-award
reviews. Contracts for equipment, furniture and vehicles financed by ODA, with
an estimated aggregate value of US$0.6 million, will be awarded following ODA's
standard procedures.
113. Local and expatriate consultant services financed by IDA, expected to total
about US$1.2 million, will be contracted following Bank guidelines for the Use
of Consultants.   The signing of agreements for the provision of the main
technical assistance consultants for management services, training development
services and project monitoring would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
114. The Pakistani local competitive bidding procedures are generally consistent
with the need for adequate competition and encouraging economy and efficiency
in the execution of the project. There are, however, a few provisions which
require strengthening: (a) sufficient time for bid submission; (b) specifying
evaluation criteria to ensure that the lowest evaluated responsive bid wins; and
(c) bidding documents specifying clearly all factors to be used in bid evaluation
with no preference  given  to any bidder.    Agreement  was  reached  during
Negotiations that procurement through local competitive bidding will follow
procedures acceptable to the Association.



- 38
Table 3.4. PROCUREMENT METHODS [US$ Million] _/
Project Element        ICB        LCB          Other      Total
.....................................................…,,,,,,,,.
Civil works             *         12.7          0.2        12.9
-       [11.4]         1-]       [11.4]
Equipment              2.5         1.8          3.1h/       7.4
[1.8]      [1.4]        [2.1]       [5.3]
Furniture               -          0.7          0.2         0.9
-        [0.6]        (0.2]       [0.8]
Vehicles               9.0          -           0.2         9.2
(4.8]                   [0.1]       [4.9]
Technical assistance    -           -           3.5         3.5
[1.2]      [1.2]
Trning, Ed mats, Fships  -          -          10.4        10.4
-          ([9.1      [9.1]
Salaries                           7- .7                    7.7
=   -      [5.01      [5.0]
Medicines, Op. costs   3.7          -           5.3         9.0
(3.2]                   [2.2]       (5.4]
Pr Management, Research  -          -           1.6         1.6
[1.6]      [1.6]
P. Prep. Facility       -           -           0.2         0.2
-   -      (0.2]      [0.2]
,................................................... .. ... . .........
Total cost            15.2        15.2         32.4        62.9
Bank financing        [9.8]      [13.4]       [21.7]      (45.0]
................. ................................................. ..........................
A/ Figures in parentheses represent IDA credit financing
v About US$2 million expected to be procured from UNICEF
D. Disbursements. Accounts and Audits
115. Credit disbursements will finance: (a) 90X of the costs of civil works;
(b) for equipment, furniture, vehicles, and medicines and medical supplies: 100l
of foreign expenditures of direct imports, 100l of ex-factory cost for locally
manufactured items procured through ICB, and 501 of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; (c) 1001 of the cost net of taxes of local training,
overseas fellowships, technical assistance, and project management; (d) 801 of
total incremental salaries and incremental operating cost up to a maximum
disbursement of US$3.0 million, subsequently 60X of total incremental salaries



* 39 -
and operating cost up to a maximum cumulative disbursement of US$5.0 million,
and finally 40% of total incremental salaries and operating cost up to a maximum
cumulative disbursement of US$6.6 million; and (e) repayment of the PPF.
116.  Disbursement  against contracts  for civil works  exceeding US$100,000
equivalent and for goods and services exceeding US$200,000 equivalent will be
made against normal documentation.   Disbursements against expenditures or
contracts below that level will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOE), the documentation of which will be kept by the Project
Implementation Units for annual audits and examination by Bank missions. Since
withdrawal applications below US$20,000 cannot be processed directly from the
Credit proceeds, in order to facilitate project implementation the governments
will establish and maintain, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
two Special Accounts in a commercial bank:  one operated by the PIU in each
province. Upon Project Effectiveness, IDA will make initial deposits into the
Special Accounts equivalent to about US$0.9 million for each of the provincial
accounts which represents the estimated average IDA financing amount for a four-
month period during the first five years of the project. Each Special Account
will be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance falls below an
amount equal to 50% or less of the initial deposit.  Withdrawal applications
will be supported by appropriate documentation.
117. The proposed IDA Credit of US$45.0 million will be disbursed over eight
years, which includes an additional 12 months to accommodate unforeseen delays
in implementation (see Disbursement Schedule in Annex 8). The current country
disbursement profile is seven years, but the eight year period reflects the
profiles of social sectors in Pakistan and the Region, and that this will be the
first IDA health project implemented in Pakistan.
118. Accounts and Audits. The offices of the Project Directors will maintain
separate accounts and records for project expenditure.   Project accounts,
including a separate opinion on the Special Accounts and the Statements of
Expenditure, will be audited by independent auditors in accordance with the
March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank". Accounts will be available to the auditors within
four months of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances were obtained during
Negotiations that the Association will be provided, within nine months of the
end of each fiscal year, with an audit report of project accounts of such scope
and detail as the Association may reasonably request, including a separate
opinion by the auditors on disbursements made on the basis of SOEs.
IV. Benefits and Risks
119. The project will help the governments achieve their objective of improving
the health status of the population generally but with a special emphasis on high
risk and other under-privileged sections of the community. Services will be of
a higher  quality  and of  increased  effectiveness.    Women  would benefit
particularly, through improved maternal health services, especially ante- and
post-natal care including increased availability of family planning services.
With present levels of facility coverage, by project completion, the health



- 40 -
services available to some 80X of the total population of the two provinces
(including 9 million women of childbearing age) would improve. Service use is
expected to increase from present low levels, with a doubling to 35-50X of
pregnant women in service catchment areas receiving some prenatal care and,
similarly, a doubling in the proportion of deliveries supervised. The government
will benefit from the various institutional development components, particularly
the management, planning and technical skill enhancement activities.   These
activities would also pave the way for more ambitious objectives to be achieved
through subsequent investments.
120.  The project faces three main risks.  The most important is the limited
implementation capacity, and lack of large project experience, of the provincial
DOHs and the federal MOH. This risk is addressed through having a substantial
management strengthening component, simplifying the project design as far as is
consistent with maintaining technical standards, incorporating experience from
other similar projects, and providing for technical assistance in key areas.
The second is that strengthening public health systems and particularly focusing
on women's health problems may not receive sufficient priority from a male
dominated, traditionally orientated health system, including poor implementation
of the project family planning activities due to the administrative separation
between health and population; this risk is minimized through the full
involvement of senior health and population officials in project preparation
resulting in careful definition of respective implementation responsibilities
and a strong commitment to the project, the project reinforcing the
implementation of key parts of the government's health policy with its strong
primary and maternal/child care focus, the early and continuing involvement of
local university departments of community medicine and NGOs, and the
establishment of coordination mechanisms. Finally, as this project will mainly
be implemented in two provinces which are largely independent of each other,
there are risks of difficulties of project supervision. Such risks have been
addressed by incorporating additional monitoring resources and recommending more
intensive than normal IDA supervision and through making provision for regular
inter-provincial meetings.
V. Agreements Reached and Recommendations
121. During Negotiations, the Federal and Provincial Governments as appropriate
provided assurances that:
a. a review of experience with Community Health Workers, both within and
without Pakistan, will be conducted under terms of reference to be
agreed with the Association. The study will be completed by December
1992 and the results discussed with the Association before large numbers
of province-wide Community Health Workers are recruited and trained for
government employment (para. 50);
b. in advance of the phasing of overall project implementation by
districts, about half of the government health facilities in Sindh and
NWFP will offer family planning services by December 1993 and all such
facilities will offer family planning services by July 1995 (para. 59);



- 41 -
c. the provincial staff development team, which will be responsible for
developing the provincial in-service training programs, will be
established and adequately staffed by July 1992 (para. 67);
d. a review of the incentives and service conditions of female paramedical
staff, both during training and subsequent employment, will be conducted
by December 1992, the findings discussed with the Association, and the
implementation of agreed measures started by December 1993 (para. 71);
e. (a) at least 75 percent of the professional staff of the Provincial
Health Development Centres will be recruited or transferred in by July
1992 with the Centres being fully staffed by July 1993; and (b) that
at least 75 percent of the professional staff for the District Health
Development Centres will be recruited or transferred in by the end of
the first year in which they are scheduled to begin operations with the
balance appointed during the second year of operation (para. 75);
f. each province will review annually with the Association the funds
required for the following fiscal year for carrying out both the project
and for meeting all recurrent health expenditures and recommendations
from this review will be reflected in the budget proposal for such
fiscal year; the Federal Government and the Association will also review
annually the funds required for carrying out the project to ensure the
availability of such funds (para. 91);
g. each province will establish by December 1991 a project Steering
Committee, chaired by the Secretary of Health and composed of senior
officials and representatives of universities and non-governmental
organizations, which will coordinate and provide overall guidance in
project implementation (para. 95);
h. each provincial Project Implementation Unit will be established and
staffed by January 1992, the Project Implementation Units will remain
adequately staffed with full-time personnel, and they will operate
until the closing date of the project (para. 96);
i. arrangements with local universities and non-governmental organizations
for obtaining technical support for the project by the provinces will
begin during the first project year and continue throughout the project
(para 102);
j. Association-financed consultants will be recruited in accordance with
Bank Guidelines dated August 1981 (para. 103);
k. all remaining sites will be acquired and available by December 1993
(para. 107);
1. (a) semi-annual progress reports will be prepared by the Project
Directors and submitted to IDA; and (b) a Project Completion Report



* 42 -
will be submitted by the governments to IDA, within six months of the
closing date of the project (para. 108);
m. procurement through local competitive bidding will follow procedures
acceptable to the Association (para 114);
n. the Association will be provided, within nine months of the end of each
fiscal year, with an audit report of project accounts of such scope and
detail as the Association may reasonably request, including a separate
opinion by the auditors on disbursements made on the basis of SOEs
(para. 118).
122. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are: (a) approval of the project PC-1
by the Executive Committee of the Federal Government's National Economic Council
(para. 109); and (b) the signing of agreements for the provision of the main
technical assistance consultants for management services, training development
services and project monitoring (para. 113).
123. Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable basis for
an IDA Credit of SDR 31.8 million equivalent to the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 11
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 1: 1990 Populatlon Estimates
(thousandsl
Provlnoel                                         E-Xpe td       Children
DliotdoR                                       I Bnh$igPopulation  |  UWRA   |  IflJL  Undu5  infan |
81NDHg 2,000                            6,262          1.222         4.131         729
Hyderabad             2,ti88        03            122           421          77
Badin                  1.0"        200             47           168          01
Dadu                   1,48        282             as           248          44
Sanghar                1,247       247             so           204          n
Tharparkar            2,271        443            107           340          as
Thntta                  862         160            41           147          27
Karaohl (3)
West              3.739         61           170           s6o          94
East              2,862        6i6            138           412          73
South              1.700       393             83           246          44
Larkana               1.422        260             67           247          43
Jacobabad              1,137       219             83           189          34
Shikarpur               721         147            34           116          20
sukku,                 1.445       287             s8           245          40
Khalpur                1,349       200             63           241          42
Nawabihah             2.021        393             es           389          67
NWFP                        15,000      2.890           705          2.389         407
Peshawar              3.0S0        021            144           484          76
Mardan                 1,912       300             90           297          40
Abbottabad             1.414       290             as           218          41
Maneehra               1,297       241             81           200          30
Kohistan              1.113        198             62           144          27
Kohat                   67         135             32           108          18
Karak                   331         68             16e            3           9
Bannu                   904         184            42           142          24
D.I. Khan               868         178            41           135          25
Swat                   1,746       347             82           299          62
Dir                    1.140       220             84           192          32
Chitral                 278         e1             13            42           9
Malakand                386         s9             17           6e           11
FATA                         2.900        860           136           464           78
PAKISTAN                   110.000     20.065          8.170        18,148       3,132
11I Women of reproductive age.
(21 Mlesion estimates.
131 A fourth disArict (Central) has been created recently.
Source: Ministy of Population Welfare.
tIS"



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 11
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 2: Estimated Incidence of Endemic Dlseases
by Province and DistrIct, 1988/89111
Leprosy No. of Cases
Provincel              Population       Malaria 121      Tuberculosis        or Estimated Prevaiance
District               In's             o Cases         No. of Cases             per 000 Pop.
SINDH                      20,000                              21.000                          11.253
Hyderabad             2,688             1,269                                             2.6-4
Badin                 1,055              326                                              c0.5
Dadu                  1,455             3,919                                               <4
8anghar               1,247              480                                            0.6-2.5
Tharparkar            2,271              402                                               0.6
Thatta                 882               423                                              <0.5
Karachi 131
West              3,739               191                                                0
East              2,862               90                                                 0
South             1.765              .....                                               0
Larkana               1.422             2,415                                             1.6-4
Jaoobabad             1,137             1.030                                             2.5-4
Shikarpur              721              1,589                                             <0.6
Sukkur                1,445             2,766                                           0.6-1.5
Khalpur               1.349             1,542                                             <0.5
Nawabshah             2,021             1,151                                             <0.8
NWFP                       15,000
Peshawar              3.069                              17,000                            16O
Mardan                1.912                               5.000                            240
Abbottabad            1,414                              19,000                            130
Mansehra              1,297                               6,800                            880
Kohiutan              1,113                                .....                           370
Kohat                  076                                3.400                             65
Karak                  331                                1,400                            .....
Bannu                  904                                 .....                            15
D.l. Khan              68e                                4.200                             60
swat                  1,748                                .....                           950
Dir                   1,140                               4,400                            430
Chitral                278                                1,672                            190
Maiakand               365                                1,500                            .....
FATA                        2.900                                 .....                          310
11I Figures are mainly hospital based and are thought to be partial and under-esimates.
121 Plasmodlum Faiciparum is most frequent but closely followed by Plasmodium Vivax.
13P A fourth dietrict (Centra) has been created recently.
Souree: NWFP and Sindh Departments of Health.
3mm



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 11
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APRAISAL REPORT
Table 3: Estimates of Main Causes of Child
Deaths In Pakistan, 1986
iDeaths|
Dlarrheal Diseass                               313,400
Neonatal Tetanus                                100,600
Acute Respiratory Infections                     80,000
Malaria                                          80.000
Measdes                                          35,500
Diphteria                                        14,600
TSi/Po/IoPertuslis                               12,200
Others                                           74,600
Source: Situation Analysis of Children and Women in Pakistan, UNICEF. 188.
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 4: Regional Health and Social Indlces, 1988
iUnder         Infant        Ute    |      of Under 5      Female    Primary-School
Mortality   Mortality    Expectancy   with modJeevere   Uteracy    Enrolment Ratio
ate    R Rate          at Brth        underweight       Rate        Female III
PAKISTAN                  180        108            67              39110         19                 28
BANGLADESH                188         118           51                Om9         22                 64
INDIA                     149         08            58                4116        20                 81
CHINA                      43         31            70                 N.A       s5                 124
SRI LANKA                  43         32            70                3819        83                102
111 Figures are for 1985.
Source: The State of the World's Children. UNICEF, Oxford University Press, 198.
'aim



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 11
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 5: Number of Public Sector Health Facillties and Hospital Beds by Province, 1989.
Health Faolitiee      N        PAT      SIN       BALSTAN|   PUNJA       OTHER(1)        TOTAL |
Tertiary Seotor
Teaching Hospital       3        0         a            1        13            2            24
Provinoial Hospital     0        0        12           0          0            0            1*
Speolalized HospItal   10        0         4           2          a            0            a
Total (Hospitad)       13        0        21           3         10            2      E .'
Total (Beds)         3387        0      6884         1085     10130          042        ffi
Secondary Sector
Municipal Hospital      0        0         5           0          0            0       *   *s
Distriot Hospital       9        0         9          17         27            1            3
Agency Hospital         1        3         0           0          4            0             8
TehsllfTaluka Hospital   17      0        48           0         40            0           114
Sub'Tehsil Hospital    40        0         0          20          8            0
CIvil Hospital          0       21         2           37        20            1           87
Total (Hospitals)      73       24        04          74        114            2           381
Total (Beds)         3724     1026      2789          s0o      7647          315         1
Prlmary Sector
Rural Health Centre    s8        3        U           a8        360            3
Basic Health Unit     884       ea       320         313       1l8l           12 2SSS
MCH Centre             G1       24        38          64        217            2           804
FWCentre              188        0      246           53        785           13          1254
Dispensarles/Clinics    208    164       636         242        992           39         2281
Total (Facillties)   1099      288      1302         740       4134           60           6
Total (Beds)          604      145      1522         380       3682           66 0e
Tibb System
Dispensarles            0        0        30           0         77            0           1
Homeopathic System
Dispensaries            0        0         0           0         57            0            57
11I Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir. and the Northern Areas.
Source: Health Manpower & Training Plan for Pakistan,19o9 (unpublished) and provincial Departments of Health.
11219



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 11
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 6: Public Sector Health Staff by Province, 1989
|     WFfP      l   r-SIN0H           |I    BALSTAN     I    PUNJA               TOTAL (1
| I Ma   Femab| |MIIb    Fm|l  |MlAW    Fnrnab| | "               Fmb|  |Male Female  ALL|
A. Trained He1th Owe StAl
Medical Ofilote
HealthhManapefe                  28        0      268         4       61         S      124         4      47*t .     -    84
Medal aSpeoflits                123       21       811      l10      101         7      161        17      8      1      106
Medl iOffiosre(OP1)            1343      209    O248        918      642       103     2188      486   :81        748 .    . 00A
HaueOfflolb                     381       20      CJ9       341      I26        16      673      200    .81*         .-  *4*4
Sub-Totn                1826       810     4900     1382       880      180     8148       670 a   07*4  it-  10
Dentste                           104         8      132         7       es         1       41       21       810    28    85
Pharmacists                         8         0                  1       11        0         0        2        2 
HulhhEduoato                                      0              0   0 0  8        0         8        0 2   -  .4
Nufe. 
Nurel Manaer                      1       14         0       13        3        29        0       110 .      . - .  -ia
NurmeTutor                        0       10         0       82        0         3        0        78         - ;         1-i
StafH/Ohrp Nure                  26   eco            0     1020       30       221            0    36D0     4*    *    *4*4
NumeMldwftf                       0       as         0      am         0        26        0       117 I48                 148
Sub-Total                 26      m           0     1450        30      279         0     8817 S
Lady Health VbsIto
LHV Manage                        0        0        0         2        0         1        0         1     x         4      4
UlVlnetruotrITutws                0        e         0        8        0         0        0        14           .
LHV                               0  3e6             0      887        0       140        0      18864128
Sub-Towl                   0      404         0      867         0      144        0      1o6 w                   *m
MIdwive                             0       680        0      ON8         0       21         0      720          1 *74
Public Health Inspetor
PH ilanage                        0        0         0        1        7         4      218         0       M       I      ;
snlyup tnepects                  W         0        84        0        10        0      340         0      440      '0    44*
SanlWyPatrol                    129        0        g6        0      111         0  3 08            0   -.  :          s
Sub-Totel                186        0       180        1       128        4       no         a.1408          41807
Druglnspectors                      9         0       20         0        a        0         7        O        4             -
Pwamedib&Tutom                   10        0        20        5        6         0       72         I1
Medic Tolhnblc                  Ga1       79      439        so       go        ea2     16$        10 le    *4   1  g$4
Pharmacy Assistant             1288        3      1087        0       883        0      ant         3                    58
X4ayTeohnlean                   126        0       146        0       79         0      191         0      048    '0
O.Tho.reTochnclan               III        0       172        0       20         0      228         8        0      4    *4*
Lero'racTecltniclefn            278        0      201        16       94         0       M0         6      0*      *1 iI
PhwtiamyAeeltat                   0        0        0         0        1         0      282         8       6*      -
LpeyToenllan                     10        0         a        0        1 1       0        0         0       8       l      0>
T.S.'Technican                   2S        0         0        0        0         0        0         0       0*             8:
Vaccnatom           136                    0      1284      144I"    373        8                   0  eo  0       7*   4
Other                           128       82        84        8       27         0       s0         0        t     4      86
sub-Total               8042       164     0494      M26      1293       as     2647        so    ¶        4$  sl004
TSAeTralned                         0       621        0       884        0      434         0     2404        '0    *      1
Tr =n.PratlcnrFLlakln                0        0       20       134        0         0       16        0        *             170
Homeopalte                          I         0        0         0        1        0         6        8                      1
TOrAL                    2D0      2M1      O7m      4487      2346     1076         9     9440 m
L H      althCe, SupportSt21                                                       0
NurseAlds                           0        27        0        so       10        0         8a                  ' ~       .1
Ward Ordrliln                    l188         7     1687       488      217       76      816        0°
Ayes                                0       478        6       848       48      M0       1848      82Go?1)0 4*
othr                                7         0     1871       12       780      174       272        0      24          
TOTAL                 11111      M0       amS       M8       1063      646     949        am       64    64   1
0. Non-Prolassloanl Helth Staff
Adminletrto                       N/A       WA        10         0      284        3        6a        0        6g
Clerks                            WA        WA       878        78      282        0       05         0     44         6 $4
HIouskkping, drIvr, watchm n      WA        N/A      o2         00   9 31          0       202        0                       4
Othet                             WA        WA      82         802     1274       74  3220            0 i           -44*   47*0
TOTAL                   WA       WA  6 132         1000     2761        77     668          0       0         ;
1il Excludesbader   admintrtda
121 ExIudns PopulatIon WIfaed sa.
Sourme: Health Manpowr nd Traoin Ptan for Paktn, 1090 (unpublshed and Provincial Depamnts of Helth.
18818



Ms   M fi fi h W t }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .    . ... . ..
I  2 fi g!         Eli                              g
! 0                                      i;
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U.
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-'s~~~~
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
g| =                               
li l | |X X | ly]F !l |]-D ]~~



- 49 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 1 1
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 8: Number of Private Sector Health Facilities, NWFP and Sindh, 1989
Nuruing/                         Diagnoatlo
Type of                       Matemlty Homes/                       Centre n                Medical
Trenent           Ho pitaentres                                    L DIpenarleortoes   rclinic 
N.W.F.P.
loppathicoenerai               43                  13              26              79      1673       1718
Allopathbi Dental               0                  0                0               5        63          0
Unani                           0                  0               2                0       306         61
Ayurvedi                        0                  0               0                0         0          0
Homneopathic                    1                  0                0               0       168         1S
Other                           0                  0                0              11        12          0
Total                 44                  13              28             90        2132       1784
Of which Urban
AIlopathic General             41                 12               17              78       866       1179
Allopatho Dental                0                  0                0               6        74          0
UnanI                           0                  0               2                0       161         20
Ayuwdio                         0                  0                0               0.        0          0
Hoeneopathlo                    0                  0                0               0        07          6
Otwr                            0                  0                0              11        11          0
Totlr                 41                  12              19              94       1190      1214
SINDH
Allopathic General            179                119              84              174      6370       3388
AJ1pathlobDtI                   I                  1               0                2       240          0
Unani                           1                  0               2                0      1034         41
Ayurwvd                         0                  0                0               0         7          0
Homeopathic                     3                  1               3                0       821         18
Other                           0                  0                3               8        41          0
TOdl                 184                 121              02              184      8613      3446
Of which Urban
Allopathoeensral              179                116              71              174      6208       3015
Ailopethh Dntel                 1                  1               0                2       238          0
Unani                           1                  0               2                0       814         SO
Ayurvedio                      0                   0               0                0         7          0
Homeopathlc                    3                   1               3                0       784         17
Othr                            0                  0               3                a        40          0
ToWa                 184                 117              79             184       7180      3068
8oure: Censue of privat sector health facilti". 10. Federal Bureau of Statistce, Idanabad (unpublished advance repont).
law



- so -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 11
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 9: Private Sector Health Staff By Province, 1989
[ Homeop athie |      r Dspenerun                           L |iady Health    LWbiX-Ray/ECG
Doctoro      ooo      | Hakims                            M Compoundere  dwiVitor |   Tehnician
PAKISTAN
Urban    10926           2320     3765           3340       814        267            243               438
Rural      s76            480      1409          1586       146         53             32                77
Total    11902           2780      6264           4925      969        320            275               515
N.W.F.P.
Urban      e64             82       163           419        11          3             11                37
Rural      153             so       140           384        8           4              0                27
Total      817             142      303            803      1           7             11                64
SINDN
Urban     ml               36                      718      452         92            s6                170
Rural      325             32       64             170        3          0              0                 a
Totl      6196            68          9            888      455         92             71               170
BALOCHISTAN
Urban      277             21       44            208       30           8              3                25
Rural       10              1        4             26        0           2              0                 1
Total      296             22        48            234       30         10              3                26
PUNJAB
Urban     4124           1581     2973            1895     321         164            164               206
Rural      40             387      1271           1005      134         47             26                49
Total     4653            1948     4244          3000       455        211            190               265
Source: Census of privatse etor health factliies. 1989. Federal Bureau of Statiseo. Idamabad (unpublished advance report).
1mW



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9ot 11
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT--STAFF APPRAISAL REPOPRT
TABLE 10: Total Public Expenditure on Health & Population Welfare
(Rps. Million)
DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE
RECURRENT       TOTAL    EXPENDITURE
HEALTH    POP. WELFARE  I          EXP.                   AS % OF GNP
1972-73          96                 27              172        205            0.43
1973-74         176                103              210        480            0.65
1974-75         36s                145              278        7              0.70
1975-76         629                18             361        1179            0.88
1978-77         540                183              439       1162            0.75
1077-78         512                105              680       1176            0.62
1978-70         580                114              642       1325            0.63
197970          717                127              62        1506            0.60
198041          942                131              706       1s86            0.62
1981-82        1037                174              993       2204            0.83
1082-43        1183                178             1207       2568            0.64
1983-84        1626                202             1665       3393            0.74
1984485        1687                346             1785       3718            0.73
1985-86        1882                416             2384       4732            0.85
1986-87        2616                483             3270       6368            1.04
1987-8         3114                440             4064       7618            1.08
1988-89        2802                450             5000       8262            1.03
1089-00        2668                 0oo            5828        696            0.97
1090-01        3917                ag0             6032      10539            1.05
I' Includec recurrent expenditure.
Souroe: () Economlo Survey 1989-10. Finanoe DhMdon, Govemrnment of PaWstan. Islamabad.
Po Annual Plan 1880-91, Planning Commlslon, Govemment of Pandatan. ldamabad.
TAnO.u&                                                                      Wn4I



PAXISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT -- STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table I1: Federal and Provincial Deelopment Expenditures
[Rips millions]
1 1989110S ExendItures                     19`011991 Allocaton
| i] t84     1 [|]  L         J                      ] |ale U         P|n7|89-i i.  Sd    Toal     Ba| @  EiPu-ni ESid [| To-tal
RuraiHealdi               342     377    48    1169    1684    1354    110    71    133   676   191   118600   159    43    12    625    190    1143
Prevento eCwe             353     365    328      233     350     288    230      7     280           2831                                  7     32     383
Hosplsis& Urban HO        593     635     669     526     610    447      99     33    131   231    87        58.   161      37   161   264    99        722
anpoweroevslopmnen        229     244     267     484     342     436    205      8     25   231      34             234      1    36    382    36  ",
Othen                      47      79      58      89      68     277      19    20       1    S5      14     1    86         7    20    72       14   .91
* The federal ADP MacallaInclude the Health. PImnnnl  and Nacotis Dividn the Ilainabad Capical TorritorytT,
A2ad J_ia  & Kashr* IAJKL the Nthern Areas Ind th Federally AdnIstered Trbal Areas [FATAJ.
SEurce: DOudled Annuald Plas Planning Commimsson. ldbunabad.
25-Jan-91
ro 
o 



- 53 -
ANNEX I
Page 11 of 11
PAKISTAN
fAMILY HEALTH PROJECT - STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 12: NWFP Recurrent Budget Allocations
[Rps Millions]
1989t11  0            1990,"o91 
Initlal       eed    |    Initwalel
Administration                      182.9         47.8         168.3
Hospita and Clinics                 489.0         56.9         562.2
Medloal Educaon                      64.1         76.1          71.2
Mental Hospital                       5.1          7.5           5.7
Maternal and Child Health             3.4          3.4           3.8
Prventive care                        6.0          5.4           5.1
Chemical Examiner                     0.8          1.4           to
Drug Contro                           1.6          1.8           1.8
Others                                0.7          0.8           0.5
Source: Finance Departmont. Govemment of NWFP
25-jan-9t                                  nwfp.rec
PAKiSTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT - STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 13: SINDH Province Recurrent Budget Allocations
tRps Millions)
ReWsod Alloctons                        Inilial
1986187    16i1871881   1988/89     19869R00      19901911
Adminisration                        14.9         16.2          20.5       21.7            29.4
Hospital nd Clinics                 439.3        692.3         579.1      796.4           938.7
Medical Educetion                    77.7        109.6         102.7      111.9           128.2
O0th  and Preventive  re             27.2         79.5          83.7       87.0           118.5
Chemical Examiner                      3           2.1           2.4        2.7             3.3
Drug Corol                             -           2.0           2.6        2.4             8.2
Malari Control                       17.5         21.6          22.5       22.3           25.0
TOtl                    579.0         823.8         813.5    1046.0          1251.9
Sourc: Finane Department, Govemment of 8ndh
26-Jan-41



- 54 -
Annex 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Provincial Features
1.       There are many provincial features, specific to each of the four
provinces of Pakistan, which affect the delivery of health services.
2.        Sindh is the second largest (population 25.9 million) and second
poorest province in Pakistan. Administratively', it is divided into 18 districts
(including the 4 urban districts of the Karachi metropolitan area), 75 sub-
districts or talukas, 632 Union Councils and 5846 villages.   The province
includes Karachi (population 8.2 million and growing at over 51 per annum) and
Hyderabad (population over 1 million), two of the largest urban areas in
Pakistan. Karachi, with its rapidly growing slum population of 3 million and
its divided administrative responsibility for health service delivery, presents
unusual problems for the provision of health services. The rural population of
Sindh (about 12.8 million in 1988), is distributed in an uncommon way with almost
70X of the population living in small clusters of less than 500 people. This,
coupled with population densities that range from 278 persons per sq. km. in
intensively irrigated areas down to 5 persons per sq. km. in the desert areas,
means that providing cost-effective health services requires considerable
flexibility and careful management. One advantage of the large number of small
villages is that they tend to be ethnically homogeneous making it easier to
establish community based operations. However, the traditional economic and
social systems particularly in the north, coupled with the continuing security
problems in both rural and urban areas, makes staff safety (especially for female
staff) and service provision extremely difficult. Female literacy is very low
at about 51. Data are very limited for small a-eas but it seems that health
indicators for parts of rural Sindh are among the worst in the country and those
for slum areas of Karachi are only slightly better (infant mortality rates of
170 and 140-145 per 1,000 live births respectively).
3.       MWMF (population 15.1 million) is a very rural province with no large
urban areas. About 851 of the population live in rural areas. Administratively,
the province is divided into 15 districts, 53 sub-districts or tehsils, 655 Union
Council areas, and 7809 villages of varying size.  In addition, 2.9 million
people live in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA)2, which are
entirely rural and administratively divided into seven Agencies. (There are also
over 3 million Afghan refugees living in the province.) Population densities
i There Is a steady increase in the numbers of administrative units as, for example, existing districts
are sub-divided. These fiSures relate to log. SimiLlar sub-division is occuring in NWFP.
2 Health services in PATA are admlnistered by the NWFP Department of Health on behalf of the federal
6overnment.



- 55 -
Page 2
range from over 500 per sq. km. to under 20 in the mountainous north, with an
average of about 180 per sq. km..  Most of the province follows the Pathan
culture with a rigid tribal structure. While the average village population size
is higher than in Sindh, a particular feature of rural NWFP is the high level
of migration of adult males to elsewhere in Pakistan and to the Middle East.
The result is relatively high income levels, mainly from remittances.  NWFP
society remains traditional with low female literacy (4X) and a strictly enforced
purdah system. Restrictions on female mobility are a major problem for health
service delivery.



- 56 -
Ane 3
Page 1
PAKISTQN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Health Staff
Doctors
1.        About 108,000 staff are currently employed in the health sector of whom
some 14,000 and 20,000 are doctors employed in the public and private sectors
respectively.   Primarily to alleviate unemployment of new medical graduates,
the government has created (2,000) jobs for junior doctors in the public sector
since 1985, but there are still ertimated to be 6,000 unemployed doctors (1989
unofficial figure). While the output from the medical colleges has been somewhat
reduced, it is still substantially in excess of anticipated vacancies
particularly for male graduates. Despite two major government inquiries into
the problem (1976 and 1982), no solution has been found. The 1990 health policy
guarantees  all  new  medical  graduates  jobs.    Apart  from  the  financial
implications, the continuing need to find jobs for graduates is resulting in
their being posted to positions for which they have not been properly trained
and to facilities not designed to support them and thereby negatively affecting
the functioning of the primary health system. Reform of medical curricula has
yet to be seriously started. In contrast, there is a major shortage of almost
all types of medical sgecialists (surgeons, anesthetists, gynecologists, etc.).
This affects the quality and availability of tertiary care offered, and also
basic medical and specialist training.
Nursing and garamedical staff
2.        Nurses are almost entirely a female cadre with some 5,800 currently
employed in the public sector and over 2,000 in the private sector. They are
usually posted in the large urban hospitals, with most nursing posts in the
smaller hospitals being vacant. The profession has a poor image and low status
and consequently has had great difficulty in recruiting and retaining young
nurses. Efforts during the 1980s to improve nursing salaries and allowances have
had some effect but there remains a chronic shortage of nurses throughout the
country.     The  health  policy  includes  proposals  for  major  further
salary/grading/career improvements, the introduction of local training schools,
and the lowering of various entry and personal requirements.
3.        Paramedical staff cover a wide range of cadres including (a) Lady
Health Visitors (LHV), a long established female group who are the backbone of
the. primary care system and who are particularly important for MCH care;
(b) Health Technicians (HT), a mixed male and female group created in the 1970s
to be posted to BHUs and RHCs; (c) technical staff, including such groups as
laboratory technicians, operating theatre technicians and x-ray technicians, who
are found in all facilities from RHCs upwards but whose training, until recently,
has been very neglected; (d) PWD female staff, especially Family Welfare Workers,



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 2
whose training is similar to LHVs; (e) others, include dispensers a long standing
and large male group whose current position in the primary care system is vague,
vaccinators, sanitary inspectors, malaria supervisors and midwives. Details of
the numbers in each cadre are given in Annex 1. All of the female cadres are
in short supply (especially female HTs), as are many of the male groups, although
the position varies significantly between provinces.   Various proposals are
included in the health policy to address this problem which are similar to those
proposed for nurses. There is scope for rationalization of some of these groups,
especially between: (a) LHVs/female HTs/PWD female staff; and (b) the male
HTs/dispensers but institutional barriers and tradition may make this difficult.
Training quality for many of these groups is broadly acceptable, but significant
gaps remain. One problem, yet to be tackled, is to revise paramedical training
curricula/staffing to account for the advent of doctors at peripheral health
facilities. In-service training consists only of ad hoc short courses usually
linked with vertical programs; planned and comprehensive continuing education
is non-existent. The training of the trainers of many of the paramedical cadres
has often been overlooked and some of the facilities and much of the equipment
are in poor condition. The private modern sector's demands on the paramedical
groups in short supply are not great, with the exception of nurses.



- 58 -
Amex A
Page 1
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Strengthening Health Services at the District and Peripherv Level
1.        This component sial at:  (a) reducing women's mortality and morbidity;
(b) integrating contraceptive services into all health facilities; and (c)
improving the effectiveness of activities against communicable diseases. These
goals were choosen among many alternatives because they have the potential for
large gains in improving mortality and morbidity in Pakistan and are relatively
straightforward to implement. During implementation and training, particular
attention will be given to local conditions which may warrant refining the focus
of these activities. The project would support a package of interventions which
will be phased-in, district by district, and when integrated with existing basic
health services, will provide improved health services to the most vulnerable
groups in Sindh and NWFP.
Stratg1e*a
2.        To reach these goals, three main strategies would be used:   (a)
improving access to health services, in particular for women; (b) improving the
quality of health services at the district and periphery level; and (c)
increasing participation of the local communities in the management of health
services at the periphery.
Maternal Health and Family Planning Interventions
3.        The interventions required to lower maternal mortality and morbidity
and these needed to integrate family planning education and services into health
care are so closely interrelated that they are presented together. They include:
(a) improved access to basic services through (i) additional recruitment,
training, supervision and equipment of TBAs to develop outreach
programs at the village level. The Project would support an expansion
of the existing TBA training program and strengthening the trained TBAs
link with the primary health care system - a large number of TBAs have
already been trained with assistance from UNICEF and others but lack
of follow-up and linkage with the local BHU/RHC has weakened their
performance. The project would review the task description of the TBA,
strengthen the curriculum and training plan, and implement training
activities through BHU/RHCs; the BHU/RHC would become responsible for
the training and monitoring/support of TBAs from three villages in its
catchment area each year. To facilitate the permanent link between



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 2
these self-supportlng village practltioners and the health system, the
BHU/RHC would provide them with continuing education, five basic
drugs, resupply for delivery kits as well as monitoring their referral
pattern and record keeping; (ii) initiatlng the training and testing
the modalities of employing CHWs - although the establishment of this
new cadre was included in the 1990 health policy, some aspects of their
sustainabillty have yet to be developed, including how they will be
remunerated. The project would define the task descriptions of the
male and female CHW, update the training curriculum and plan and
implement their training.  It would also experiment with different
modalities for paylng these workers; (iii) lmproved availability of
contraceptives and basic obstetrlcal services in all health outlets,
through the supply of contraceptlves, medications and equipment for
maternal health services; (iv) additLonal posting of female staff at
the periphery (BHU, RHC and Tehsil hospitals); and (v) improved access
to higher levels of care through a referral system based on risk
assessment and supported by better communications (radios/telephones)
and transport facilities (ambulances or 4-wheel drives);
(b) imRroved qualitv of prenatal, postnatal and delivery services at all
levels through: (i) training of outreach workers (TBAs & CHWs); (ii)
in-servlce tralnlng for all female staff and providing continuing
education and supplies to the outreach workers from a BHU/RHC base
(CHW kits and TBA support kits); (iii) renovation of BHUs and MCH
Centres to provide labor and delivery facilities; (iv) supplying
essential mediclnes, supplies and contraceptives to all BHUs, and MCH
equipment to upgrade BHU/MCH Centres; (v) integratlng maternal health
and famlly plannlng services in the BHU/RHC/tehsil hospital system as
described below; and (vi) strengthenLng the management and supervision
system at the distrLct level.
(c) increased  community  garticipation  through:    (i)  financing  an
information/education campaign focussed on maternal health, family
planning, and communicable diseases at the village level through TBAs
and CHWs, at the BHU and RHC level through training of existing staff
and at the Division/District level through the posting of
health/nutrition educators; and (ii) linkage between the communities
and the MCH staff to assess the performance of TBAs and CHWs, and in
planning and monitoring of services as described in Annex 5.
4.        These interventions would be implemented during the prenatal, delivery
and postpartum periods.   During the prenatal period, a trained dai, with
educative support from the BHU staff, would attempt to have three contacts with
as many pregnant women as feasible but aiming at reaching at least 30X of
pregnant women by 1998 (presently 15X of pregnant women are seen once for
prenatal consultations).  During these three contacts, the TBA would provide
health education on nutrition and pregnancy including contraception, iron and
folic acid supplements, and chloroquine prophylaxis where needed.   Through
pictorials and other simple screening instruments, she would screen for high risk
pregnancies; all high risk pregnancies would be referred to and encouraged to



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 3
visit the BHU/RHC. The TBA would monitor the mother's health, uterine growth
and motivate her to receive two tetanus toxoid injections. A similar prenatal
package would be provided at the BHU, MCH Center, dispensary, RHC and tehsil
hospital levels with a degree of specialization commensurate to their level of
care, e.g. at the BHU a decision on whether a woman can be delivered at home or
in a health outlet would be made; complicated pregnancies may be hospitalized
at the RHC tehsil hospital. The trained TBA would provide a clean supervised
delivery at home to the low risk pregnant women (6,500 delivery kits would be
provided). While over 60X of all deliveries will continue to take place at home,
some 30X of these will be under the supervision of a trained TBA who will receive
technical support and a delivery kit from the BHU/RHCs. During labor, the TBA
would refer emergent complications to the BHU/RHC. After home delivery, the TBA
would reemphasize breastfeeding, postpartum and infant care,and the availability
of contraceptives.  Twenty-four hour coverage for delivery services would be
offered at the BHU by female health staff, midwife, or trained TBA. Telephone
or radio communication with higher levels of care and transportation would be
made available where needed.   Delivery of moderate risk pregnancy would take
place at RHCs under medical supervision. Cesarean-section and tubal ligation
would be referred to the tehsil hospital. Postpartum care would be provided
through two home visits (24 hours and 4 to 6 weeks after delivery) and one
referral to the BHU. Home visits would focus on encouraging universal
breastfeeding, monitoring bleeding and fever in the mother and growth monitoring
in the infant.   Information and education on infant health, breast feeding,
nutrition, postpartum complications and family planning would be re-emphasized.
Contraception would be promoted to start six months after delivery, or earlier
in absence of breast feeding (infant death). BHU referral would allow initiation
or continuation of immunization, growth monitoring, family planning services,
iron and folic acid supplementation and would provide a first medical examination
to the child.   Growth charts,  scales and stands, and equipment for food
preparation demonstration would be provided. Trained TBAs would be encouraged
to distribute or sell oral rehydration salts (ORS), iron & folic acid,
acetaminophen, pills and condoms. As should be clear from the above, family
planning services would be integrated in all health services. At the village
level, family planning education and contraceptives (condom and pill) would be
provided by TBAs and CHWs under the supervision and support of the BHU staff who
would supply similar services. IUD insertion would be referred to RHCs where
a lady doctor or LHV would have been suitably trained. Surgical contraception
would be made available at the tehsil hospital.
5.        CHW/TBAs would be trained to recognize emergencies early, and refer
them to the BHU. A communication, referral and transport system between the BHU,
RHC and tehsil hospital would be established to allow lower levels of care to
seek consultation, notify higher levels of incoming emergencies and to ensure
transportation. The project would finance the rehabilitation of the emergency
facilities and operating theatres of fifty six tehsil hospitals (44 in Sindh and
12 in NWFP).   Some of these hospitals would also receive new radiological
equipment and generators. At the district hospital level, thirty ultrasound
machines would be installed.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 4
Communicable Diseases Interventions
6.        Communicable diseases are the main causes of mortality and morbidity
in Pakistan. The project would:
(a)  improve access through:  (i) the training of male and female CHWs who
would be responsible for minor curative services and for preventative
and promotive health activities at the village level.   The female
CHW/TBA would provide education to mothers and the community on
communicable disease control, and participate in immunization
activities with the existing team of vaccinators; and (ii)
decentralization of tuberculosis and malaria prevention to the village
level by the CHW and of laboratory and curative services to the BHU
level. Passive case finding and ambulatory treatment (including 3
first-line antibiotics for tuberculosis) would be offered at each BHU.
Tuberculosis inpatient treatment would be provided at tehsil hospitals
where a physician with training in tuberculosis management would be
posted.
(b)  improve the quality of services through:   (i) integration  at the
periphery of the vertical programs such as EPI, malaria and
tuberculosis into a coherent and more cost effective primary health
care system, in order to improve the quality and cost/effectiveness
of existing services for communicable diseases control (CDC).   It
should be noted, however, that the integration of CDC, MCH and primary
health care at the periphery does not imply the disappearance of the
vertical lines of technical expertise at the tehsil level and above,
which presently provide the technical and administrative support of
these programs.   EPI would be expanded to almost all BHU and MCH
Centers where equipment and supplies would be provided if needed. The
main Project inputs would be for laboratory and clinical equipment,
transport and training; (ii) retraining of the Malaria Supervisor to
become a CDC Supervisor (one month training), who would be responsible
for the day-to-day work of the CDC team including the CHWs. He would
participate in and supervise active case finding of malaria,
tuberculosis and acute respiratory infections (ARI), residual spraying,
water and sanitation surveillance,and male CHWs educative support.
A bicycle or motorcycle would be supplied to the CDC supervisor
possibly on a future ownership basis; (iii) retraining of the malaria
microscopist and the male health technician to become respectively the
RHC laboratory technician (1 month) and the BHU's minilab manager (2
weeks).   Seven hundred and fifty microscopes would be provided to
complete the equipment of these laboratories. Acid-fast as well as
malaria slide examinations would be done at the BHU; (iv) in-service
training would be provided to upgrade medical, nursing and paramedical
staff skills and to enable them to fulfill their new responsibilities
(see Annex 5).   The project also seeks to begin to address the
neglected nutrition problem and includes an extensive training program
for health staff to sensitize them to such problems as micro-nutrient
supplementation,   nutrition  education  and  growth  monitoring.



- 62 -
&Mex 4
Page 5
Consequently, the project includes the provision of essential micro-
nutrients, scales, growth charts, and educational material to clinics
and outreach workers, as well as funds for operational research, and
limited technical staff strengthening and support; (v) essential drugs
and supplies, furniture and IEC equipment would be provided on the
basis of an agreed list of essential drugs appropriate to each facility
type.  The lack of drugs and supplies is a major cause of under-
utilization of peripheral health facilities;   (vi) Expansion and
upgrading of diagnostic facilities would be supplied to complete the
equipment of existing RHCs; (vii) additional staff would be posted
at the periphery as they become available from new training programs
and by reassignment of existing staff in order to reach as close as
possible to standard staffing patterns (see annex 5); (viii)   a
consultation system via telephone or radio would be organized with a
transport system allowing transfer of emergencies between levels of
care; and  (ix)   supervision,  management and training would be
facilitated by the District Health Development Center (see annex 5).
(c) foster community participation in the delivery of health services, by
supporting: (i) health and nutrition education activities which are
rudimentary in both provinces. The project would establish a nucleus
of health education professionals and support their work programs
through providing training, equipment, supplies and funds for media
activities with the objectives of: (a) establishing a modest health
education capability at the divisional or district level by the end
of the project; and (b) integrating health education into the routine
work of the primary health care system.   Most health education
materials would be supplied from the divisional or provincial level,
but some supplies and equipment would be available at the district';
and (iii) community recognition of the best performing workers and
suggestions for additional training to the least performing ones.
7.        In order to assess the implementation and impact of the Project a
number of indicators and decisions to be made are listed in Table 1. These
indicators are presented by strategy and will allow the evaluation of the
implementation of most interventions.
I Hah duUon wtJn m's pItly Iregad  the pmoposed PrWincla an Ditt eaM Dewtpme Cen (w bM*.



Pakistan Family Health Project
Table 1: Strengthening Health Services ComDonent
OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                   INTERVENTIONS                          INDICATORS                       DECISIONS
I. REDUCE MATERNAL
MORTALITY AND
MORBIDITY BY 25X BY
1998
A. Improve women's   IA.A    Outreach programs by          IA.1    Number of TBAs functioning  IA.1    Decide to link
access to health              trained TBAs to provide:              and linked to each BHU                all trained
services                                                                                                  TBAs to a BHU
or RHC
- prenatal care                      Number of women under pre-
natal care
- high-risk screening                Number of high-risk women
referred to BHUs
- supervised delivery                Number of supervised
deliveries
- post partum counseling             Number of post partum
and linkage with BHUs for            referrals
child survival and inter-
gestational care
- sale or distribution of            Amount of drugs                       Authorize dis-
iron, folic acid, aceta-             distributed or sold                    tribution or
minophen,and chloroquine                                                    sale of drugs
by TBA and CHUW
IA.2    Early recognition and        IA.2    Number of emergencies         IA.2    Implement in-
referral of emergencies              referred to next level of              service
and complications                    care and percentage with               training and
(bleeding, fever, seizure)           bleeding, fever and                    follow-up
seizure complications.                system as
tested in
Charsadda,
NWFP.



O&JECTIVE/STRATEGY                   INTERVENTIONS                          INDICATORS                       DECISIONS
B. Improve quality   IB.1    Linkage between TBA/CHW       IB.1    Number of TBA inservice       IB.1    Train one
of services at                and BHU/RHC                           training seminars                     female worker
periphery                                                                                                 per BHU/RHC as
trainer of
TBA/CHW
IB.2    Integration of maternal      1B.2    Number of deliveries in
health in all health                 each BHU, RHC and Tehsil
structures                           hospital
IB.3    Inservice training for       IB.3    Number of inservice           IB.3    See manpower
BHU, RHC staff                       training seminars                      section
IB.4    Adequate supply of drugs    IB.4    Availability of essential   IB.4    Implement
and equipment at BHU/RHC             drugs                                  essential drugs
lists for each
level
IB.5    Posting additional female   IB.5    Number of female health        IB.5    See manpower
health workers at                    workers posted in each                 section
periphery                            BHU/RHC
IB.6    Growth monitoring and        IB.6    Availability and use of       IB.6    Link responsi-   ff
nutrition education                  scales, nutrition behavior             bility for
demonstrations.  Percent-             nutrition
age of low birth weight               supervision to
infants delivered by TBA.             MCH services.
IB.7    Tetanus toxoid               IB.7    Number of women immunized
immunization at BHU, RHC             and percentage of pregnant
women immunized.
1B.8    Educative supervision from  IB.8    Number of supervision          IB.8    Provide
District (Health                     visits                                 transportation
Development Centre)                                                         to supervisors.
IB.9    Upgrading emergency care    IB.9    Adequate handling of           IB.9    Post physicians
and diagnostic facilities            emergencies and                        and nurses with
at tehsil hospitals                  functioning operating                  emergency        - 
theatre                               management and  X
surgical skills %



OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                   INTERVENTIONS                          INDICATORS                       DECISIONS
IB.10   Establish communication      IB.10   Increased number of           IB.10   Order
and referral system                  referrals                              communication
between primary and                                                         equipment and
secondary health care                                                       ambulances
levels
C.  Commnrity         IC.1    IEC campaign on safe         IC.1    Coverage and recognition    1C.1    Creation of
participation                 motherhood                            of campaign messages                  Health
Education
capacity at
district level
IC.2    Selection and training of   IC.2    Extent of community            IC.3    Establish a
TBA and CHW                          involvement                            community
participation
mechanism
IC.3    Activation of health         1C.3    Meetings of health            IC.3    Efforts at
committees                           committees                             district level
to activate
health
committees
IC.4    Decentralization of          IC.4    Decision-making at            IC.4    See management
management                           District or UC levels                  section
II. INTEGRATE
FAMILY PLANNING IN
HEALTH SERVICES
A. Improve access    IIA.1   Family planning education   IIA.1   Monthly sales or                IIA.1   Train TEA in
and services provided by             distribution                           family planning
TBA, CHW at village level                                                   and authorize
and at all government                                                       sale or
health facilities                                                           distribution of
condoms and
pills
IIA.2   Referral to RHC for IUD      IIA.2   Monthly number of IUD         IIA.2   Train LHV or       0 
0
insertion                            insertions                             female M.D. in  0 
IUD insertion      X
ED It



OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                   INTERVENTIONS                          INDICATORS                       DECISIONS
IIA.3   Referral for surgical        IIA.3   Monthly number of             IIA.3   Train tehsil
contraception to                     sterilizations                         hospital ND in
Reproductive Health                                                         minilaps.
Centers (RHCs) run by PWD
or to tehsil hospital
B. Improve quality   IIB.1   Inservice training TBAs       IIB.1   Amount of inservice
of services at                and CHWs by BHU/RHC staff             training for TBA/CHW
periphery
IIB.2   Inservice training of        IIB.2   Amount of inservice
BHU/RHC staff by district            training for BHU/RHC staff
level staff
I1B.3   Supply contraceptives to    IIB.3   Number of times out of         IIB.3   Include
all BHU/RHCs                         stock                                  contraceptives
in essential
drugs lists
IIB.4   Supply FP services
whenever medical and
social indications
appropriate
IIB.5   Train tehsil hospital        IIB.5   Number of surgeons trained  IIB.5   Authorize non-
surgeon in surgical                                                         specialist to
contraception                                                               be trained in
minilaparatomy
techniques
IIB.6   Linkage between DOH/PWD      IIB.6   Number of referrals           IIB.6   Hold regular
between departments                   joint meetings
for planning
and implemen-
tation
C.  Community         IIC.l   IEC campaign for birth        IIC.1   Coverage and recognition    IIC.1   Include family
involvement                   spacing, health benefits              of campaign messages                  planning in
of contraception                                                            health educa-
tion campaign
-                                                                                             tD X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                  INTERVENTIONS                         INDICATORS                      DECISIONS
IIC.2   Social marketing project    IIC.2   Number of units sold         IIC.2   Coordination
to promote sale of                                                        between USAID
contraceptives in                                                         and PIU
community
III. INTEGRATION OF
VERTICAL COMMUNI-
CABLE DISEASES
CONTROL (CDC)
PROGRAKS IN PRIMARY
HEALTH CARE
A.  Improve access   IIIA.1  Integrate EPI activities    IIIA.1 Number of BHU/RHCs not
in all BHU and MCH centers          providing immunization
IIIA.2  Train malaria coordinator   IIIA.2  Number of malaria
to become CDC coordinator           coordinators retrained
and organize CDC team work
IIIA.3  TBA/CHW will provide                                              IIIA.3  Authorize
chloroquine chemio-                                                       chemio-
prophylaxis to pregnant                                                   prophylaxis
women and treat                                                           against malaria ?
presumptive cases                                                         for pregnant
women and
presumptive
treatment by
TBA/CHW
IIIA.4  Active case findings for    IIIA.4  Number of CHWs trained        IIIA.4  Decide to train
malaria, TB and ARI,                                                      and post CWs
residual spraying, and
health education to be
provided by male CHW
IIIA.5  ORS will be sold by CHW     IIIA.5  Number of units sold          IIIA.5  Authorize ORS
and available in all BHUs                                                 sales by CHV
IIIA.6  CHW/TBAs will provide CDC   IIIA.6  Number of villages covered  IIIA.6  Integrate CDC
education and participate                                                 activities at
in immunization activities                                                village level    D 
01*.



OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                   INTERVENTIONS                          INDICATORS                       DECISIONS
IIIA.7  Firstline antibiotics        IIIA.7  Number of TB patients         IIIA.7  Treat ambula-
against tuberculosis will            treated and number of TB               tory TB
be available in all BHCs             contacts traced and                    patients at
and RHCs                             examined.                              BHUs
B. Improve quality   IIIB.1  Nalaria Microscopist to be  IIIB.1  Number of microscopists
of services                   retrained to become RHC               trained and availability
laboratory technician                of microscopes
IIIB.2  Nale Health Technician to   IIIB.2  Number of technicians          IIIB.2  Organize a
be retrained to become BHU           trained in laboratory                  laboratory in
laboratory technician                skills                                 each BHU
IIIB.3  Passive malaria case         IIIB.3  Number of malaria cases
finding and presumptive              treated and confirmed
treatment provided at BHUs
with or without laboratory
confirmation
IIIB.4  Passive case finding,        IIIB.4  Incidence of acid-fast
laboratory diagnosis and             positive smears
treatment with three
firstline antibiotics
against TB will be offered
at BHUs
IIIB.5  X-ray diagnosis equipment   IIIB.5  Number of RHCs without x-   IIIB.5  Strengthen
will be available at RHC             ray equipment or out of                maintenance
order                                 program
IIIB.6  Inpatient treatment for TB  IIIB.6  Number of physicians
will be provided in all              trained in TB management
tehsil hospitals if                  and posted at tehsil
required
IIIB.7  Emergency consultation,      IIIB.7  Number of referrals,
transport and referral               consultations, and
between care levels will             emergency transport
be organized                                                                                  ¶3



OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY                   INTERVENTIONS                          INDICATORS                       DECISIONS
IIIB.8  Growth monitoring in all    IIIB.8  Number of children with        IIIB.8  Allocate
BHU, RHC and tehsil OPDs             growth charts                          responsibility
for nutrition
activity
C. Community          IIIC.l  IEC program on EPI,          IIIC.l  Coverage and recognition
involvement                   malaria, TB, nutrition,              of campaign messages
breast-feeding
IIIC.2  Involve Union Council (UC)  IIIC.2  Activities organized by        IIIC.2   Establish
in water/sanitation,                 Union Council                          linkage between
community education,                                                        DHO and UC
community responsibility                                                    health
committees
IIIC.3  Test cost recovery schemes  IIIC.3  Number of cost-recovery        IIIC.3  Authorize
schemes                               facilities to
retain and use
all/most of the
fees collected
0'
~0
I,



- 70 -
Annex 5
Page 1
PAKSTA^N
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Health Staff and Hanamement Development
A substantial part of the project's objectives will be realized through
quantitative and qualitative improvements in the health system's technical and
managerial staff. To achieve these changes, manpower investments, mostly in in-
service but also in pre-service training, will be required. Since neither in-
service training nor management development are recognized line activities of
the provincial health departments, it would be necessary for the project to
encourage the institutionalization of these important activities. To this end,
a Provincial Health Development Center (PHDC) will be established in both Sindh
and NWFP comprising four units:  management development, staff development,
health and nutrition education and research/monitoring. In addition, a modest
District Health Development Center (DHDC) would be established in each district
headquarters to assist the district team's work and to provide some limited
training and hostel facilities.  In general, such facilities at the district
level do not presently exist. Further details on the staffing and functions of
the PHDCs and the DHDCs are given in the main text (see the detailed project
description and the project implementation sections) and in Annex 6.
I. Training
All Health Workers
1.        In both provinces,  the project will effect improvements in the
training, performance and support of all cadres of health workers through:
(a) review of curricula of pre-service and in-service education/training
by a special curriculum and studies group established at the Provincial
Health Development Center (PHDC). That group will review the curricula
for PHC, especially MCH, and related subjects. Areas of deficiency
will be identified and curricula, training programs and educational
materials  will  be  developed/tested  and  made  available  to
tutors/trainers in pre-service, as well as in-service programs/courses.
An educational center will be established at the PHDC to acquaint
teachers and tutors of all cadres of health workers with the curriculum
modules and educational materials.   Technical assistance will be
provided to the PHDC to carry out these activities;
(b) The development of a system for in-service training which is geared
to the learning needs of the trainers, is interactive, reinforced, and
supported during work. Training will be organized in a manner that
will allow each individual to reinforce and support the training of
health workers for which she or he is responsible. At each district
level, in addition to one physician, there will be two paramedical
trainers and one health educator at the District Health Development



- 71 -
A;nnx 5
Page 2
Center (DHDC) who will work with the health workers within the
district, assist in assessing learning needs, contribute to preparing
curricula and training programs, implement training, and evaluate
outcomes through assessment of job performance. In turn, this cadre
of district trainers will have been trained and supported by a
provincial group of master trainers located at the PHDC. Training
facilities will be provided at the district level.
In the first and part of the second project year, a cadre of potential
master trainers will be given intensive training by experts.   The
experts will be both local and expatriate and will eventually become
the counterparts  of the master trainers.   The master trainers,
supported by their counterparts, will conduct a workshop to train a
cadre of trainers from the districts. Within the following 18 months,
the master trainers will receive additional training to further develop
their skills. From then on, the master truiners will receive training
annually. In each of the remaining years of the project, the master
trainers will be conducting training sessions for district trainers
until each district has a small group of trainers.
Following their initial training, the district trainers will conduct
in-service training workshops for various cadres of health workers.
The district trainers will be supported by the master trainers for
these activities.   Every year, the district trainers will receive
training to refresh and further develop their skills.
Information generated through assessment of learning needs of health
workers and the impact of in-service training will be conveyed to the
PHDC curriculum studies group and then to those responsible for pre-
service programs.
(c) Initiating in-service training to ensure that all cadres have adequate
knowledge and skills for allotted jobs--the focal group will be the
cadres of workers employed at the BHU, RHC, and tehsil hospitals.
(d)  The strengthening of the MCH services and integration of the vertical
programs will result in changes in roles and responsibilities of many
health workers. The Staff Development Unit at PHDC will have overall
responsibility for the revision and development of job descriptions
that reflect job expectations.
(e) Integration of in-service training in the areas of nutrition, health
education and communicable disease control within the general in-
service training program for all cadres of health workers.   The
objective is that all health workers perceive knowledge and skills
relative to these areas as integral to carrying out their job
responsibilities.
(f) Addressing the training of adequate numbers of female health workers
and their recruitment and retention in posts in rural areas through
conducting social studies on recruitment, retention in training



- 72 -
Annex 5
Page 3
programs and career posts, improving strategies for increatlng the
number of female health workers available, and occupying service posts
particularly in the rural areas. Various approaches to these difficult
problems will be tried including:   (a) a graded classification of
difficult areas with hardship allowances graded accordingly; (b)
additional leave for those posted to difficult areas; (c) experimenting
with the introduction of performance related incentives; (d) relaxation
of entry, marital status, age and residence requirements; and (e)
testing alternative shift arrangements with additional pay for night
duty. This is in addition to the proposed motivational and school
visiting program for attracting increased numbers of trainees, and the
clarifications in the staff rules on career paths, rural service and
training requirements.
2.        pre-gervice.  The training capacity for nursing in Sindh will be
expanded through constructing and equipping up to 5 new Schools of Nursing, to
be financed by the ADB. Hence, the focus of this project component in Sindh is
on improving the quality of the training programs through: (a) constructing and
equipping at Jamshoro a new College of Nursing (on the compound of the existing
School of Nursing) with a training capacity of 40 over 2 years; the College will
provide one year training programs to prepare nurse tutors, ward supervisors,
and specialty nurses; (b) provision of technical assistance for the development
of the programs at the College; (c) intensive, short-term pre-service training
of 3 months for 30 nurse tutors; (d) in-service training for nurse tutors for
approximately 75 nurse/LHV tutors who will receive initial training followed by
one day bi-annual training; and (e) provision of 25 fellowships for nurses to
obtain advanced preparation in nursing education, administration, and PHC through
B.SC.N. studies.
3.        In NWFP, the project will expand the training capacity and improve the
quantity and quality of training through:   (a) constructing a hostel for 40
trainees at Kohat and provision of equipment, furniture, teaching materials/aids
and vehicle to allow this school to become operational; (b) construction of
classrooms, hostels (where necessary), and the provision of equipment, furniture
and supplies to make functional and expand the training capacity of the schools
at Mardan and D.I. Khan, from the existing 35 to 40 over 4 years, and the
construction of a new nurse (and Lady Health Visitor) school at Swat for an
enrollment of 40; and (c) supporting a motivational program in which, inter alia,
nurse tutors will visit girls schools annually.
4.        In-service.    In both  provinces,  the  project will  improve  job
performance through in-service training. In Sindh, 390 nurses from the taluka
hospitals will receive initial and bi-annual training in MCH in-patient care;
30 nurses will receive initial and bi-annual in-service training in operating
theater nursing. In addition, short-term intensive training of 3 months, in
either community health nursing or OT nursing, will be provided for 40 nurses.
These nurses will be potential trainers for in-service of nurses and other cadres
of health workers. In the NWFP, all nurses at tertiary and secondary hospitals,
will receive in-service 3 day initial and bi-annual training in PHC including



- 73 -
Anne 
Page 4
adequate MCH in-patient care, communicable disease control, and drug management.
In addition, all nurses at the tehsil hospital level will receive 6 day initial
and quarterly training in PHC including MCH service, family planning, nutrition,
CDC, and drug management.
Lady Health Visitors and Female Health Technicians
5.        In Sindh, the project will support midwifery training of 6 months for
existing FHTs in order to prepare the FHTs for job responsibilities at the BHU
level. In that province, the project will improve the quality of the training
of LHVs/FHTs through the provision of in-service training for tutors in the
LHV/FHT programs; a total of 75 tutors who train LHV/FHTs will receive initial
training of 18 days followed by one day training bi-annually.
6.        In the NWFP, the project will expand the training capacity and improve
the  training  through:      provision  of  equipment,  furniture,  teaching,
materials/aids to make functional the training programs at Mardan and D.I. Khan
and enlarge the capacity of each from the existing 20 to 40 over 2 years, and
establishing a new school at Swat with an enrollment of 20. FHTs will receive
additional training in midwifery.
7.        In both provinces, the project will improve the quality of performance
through in-service training. All LHV/FHTs will receive initial training of 6 days
in the area of MCH care and supervision/support of CHWs followed by one day
training 3 times a year.
Midwives
8.        In both provinces, the midwives/dais will receive in-service training:
initial training of 3 days followed by training for one day 3 times a year. This
will extend and be done in collaboration with the continuing UNICEF programs.
Male Health Technicians
9.        In both provinces, the performance of the Male Health Technician will
be improved through in-service training, including preparation in basic
laboratory skills, in order to assume new responsibilities.
CDC Supervisors
10.       In both provinces, in-service training will be provided to the malaria
supervisors to prepare them for their roles in CDC and training, supervising,
and supporting male CHWs.
Paramedical Technicians
11.       In NWFP, the project will enhance the quality of the training at the
Multi-purpose Technician School at Saidu Sharif through (a) construction of
garages to house vehicles to transport trainees to field sites; and (b) provision



- 74 -
Page 5
of audio-visual equipment. In NWFP, 600 paramedicals will receive in-service
training in concepts of PHC, including CDC.
Other Training
12.       In addition to the training to improve job performance, all staff using
biomedical equipment as part of their normal job tasks will be given appropriate
in-service training on the basic maintenance of that equipment. This training
will be organized by the DHDC staff with the support of the PHDC staff.  In
general, this training is expected to be one day every 2 years for all staff
using equipment where maintenance has a significant impact on equipment function
and life.
Manpower Planninu
13.       The government has recognized the need to focus on staff development
over the next decade. The federal and provincial governments have agreed to
establish small manpower and training units, with the assistance of the ADB,
which will carry out manpower policy development and planning, in addition to
coordinating manpower planning with production and skills maintenance, combined
with maintaining the rules and practices of staff management.
II. Organization and Management
The aims of the Organization and Management component are to strengthen
the provincial health systems through:
(a) increasing managerial capacity and improving managerial and supervisory
performance at the provincial and district levels primarily through
training;
(b) improving provincial and district level managerial systems and
procedures;
(c) improving and making operational a management and supervisory system
for primary health care facilities at provincial and district levels;
(d) developing an expanded and better integrated monitoring, evaluation,
financial and operations research capacity primarily at the provincial
level and later at the district level;
(e) increasing resources for management and supervisory functions, at the
provincial and district levels; and
(f) furthering decentralization of real decision making authority as well
as beginning involving others outside the public sector health
infrastructure in health management decision making in a more
structured objective manner (see also Annex 4).
The blending of these interventions with technical elements,
particularly nutrition and health education, is designed to help integrate such



- 75 -
Page 6
activities into the staff's normal tasks in the same manner as improved
management and supervision.   Further,  the basic integration strategy for
management performance improvement is in-service training reinforced by
supportive supervision. This is the same strategy as for nutrition and health
education.   Therefore, linking these with management development activities
should assist in ensuring they are more effectively integrated into PHC staff
tasks.
Each of these sub-components are elaborated below:
(A) Increasing capacitv and improving Rerformance of managerial staff
1.        The increases in managerial capacity at the provincial and district
levels will come through the staffing of the PHDC and DHDCs. PHDCs will be all
new positions, but most of the staffing will be transferred in. The DHDCs will
require incremental staff for the paramedical trainers and health education
staff. The improvement in managerial job performance at all levels will come
primarily through in-service training. There will be a variety of courses which
will be developed for managers at the various levels of health system operations.
(a) Provincial level
In-service Management Develooment Workshops
2.        The staff of the PHDC would conduct internal workshops to develop the
workshops that they will deliver to the district staff. The initial workshops
would be about three weeks in duration and would be conducted by the external
technical assistance staff. There would be one for PHC management and another
for hospital management. These would be followed by a one-week course revision
workshop, probably at the beginning of the second year of the project. There
would then be a curriculum development workshop of two weeks every year
thereafter, in order to update the content and revise training methodologies.
Orientation and Rlanning course for health administrators
3.        This is an important activity which will serve as an in-service
educational program for administrators. It will include the following:
-    provincial level health planning;
-   provincial level health operations management;
-   provincial level monitoring and evaluation;
-   providing  information  about  and  discussing  local  health  care
development and research activities;
-    assisting the administrators in keeping them informed about national
and international developments in the field; and
-    initiating a planning process for administrative improvements.
4.        It will be organized in two initial 3-day workshops, both conducted
within about one month.   This will be followed by regular one to two day
workshops approximately every quarter at the PHDC. The participants are expected
to be all the key Secretariat, Directorate and Divisional managers, including



- 76 -
Annex 5
Page 7
those who are special project directors and those in charge of health planning
in the Planning and Development Department. Materials from these workshops would
also be used to develop the provincial level health manager's handbook (see
below'
(b) District Level Management Training
5.        All district level managers will undergo an initial one week job-
specific workshop and then participate in the regular quarterly workshops. There
are some 85 managers in the districts in each province. These workshops would
also assist district level staff in the design and preparation of workshops which
they will be running at the district level. After the initial workshop, follow-
up one-day workshops will be held every quarter for these staff. These workshops
will be designed and conducted by the PHDC staff.
(c) District and Tehsil Level. Institutional Management. Staff Development
and SuDervision. and PHC Technical Training
6.        All district level and below health service managerial staff and
medical officers serving in PHC facilities will undergo a 6-day technical Drimary
care course (rural-oriented) offered by Khyber Medical College or Aga Khan
University Departments of Community Medicine.   There are about 1500 medical
officers and others as the total trainee population. They would be trained in
batches of 30, running about 12 sessions a year. After the first round, the
program would be continued with shorter 3-day courses and around 24 sessions
annually so that most officers will receive one 3-day course every year on a
continuing basis. This will be needed for the duration of the project as medical
officers have had little or no public health training as part of their pre-
service education.    It would also  serve  to keep up with  technological
developments in public health practice and care.
7.        The  same  group of staff would also be  trained  in management.
supervision and community relations. The project's objective of obtaining higher
levels of service utilization will depend on the capacity of managers to build
trust and obtain active cooperation from the communities.   This requires
particular skills, leadership and commitment to community involvement. A key
task of managers is to bring the servic-as anad the communities together.
Therefore, during this training, there will be specific exercises for managers
to practice managing community relationships.
8.        After the first round of three-day initial workshops is completed, all
in-service staff will attend a quarterly one-day workshop. The basic workshops
will be developed and supported by the PHDC Management Development Unit staff,
but will be implemented by the DHDC staff. These workshops will be held at the
district level. After the initial round of workshops, all staff who are newly
assigned to be managerial supervisory positions will be given a six-day pre-
assignment workshop to prepare them for their job tasks. They will then join
the rotation of the quarterly one-day workshops.
9.        The managers-in-charge of District and tehsil hospitals would be given
a separate in-service program which is tailored to their specific job tasks.



- 77 -
Annex 5
Page 8
The areas covered should be similar to the ones under the PHC service
managers/supervisors, but modified for hospital-based management tasks with less
emphasis on community relations.   (The program would build on the materials
developed for the country's first hospital administration course conducted
recently in Lahore.)
10.       After the first round of initial three-day workshops was completed,
all staff concerned would attend a quarterly one-day workshop.   The basic
workshops would be developed and supported by the PHDC Management Development
Unit staff, but would be implemented by the DHDC staff. These workshops will
be held at the district level. After the initial round of workshops, all staff
who are newly assigned to managerial supervisory positions will be given a six-
day pre-assignment workshop to prepare them for their job tasks.
11.       The materials used in the development of these PHC-technical and
managerial/supervisory workshops would also form the basis for the PHC managers'
field manual. This would build on the WHO EPI training manual for mid-level
managers and PHC medical officers.
(d) Nutrition Management
12.       The main aspects of the nutrition program in the project would be:
(a)  Better nutritional  practices.    To provide women,  families  and
communities with firmer knowledge of good health and nutrition
practices, with particular emphasis on management of breast-feeding,
timely introduction of supplementary foods, and the nutri.tion of
pregnant and lactating women;
(b)  Growth monitoring and promotion, coupled with the above;
(c) Micronutrients. For anemia to make iron and folate available in pre-
natal and post-natal clinics, and Vitamin A where needed.
13.       A Nutrition Unit as part of the PHDC would be established.   The
functions of the unit will emphasize:   (i) gathering and making available
existing knowledge on nutrition; (ii) assisting the DHS in preparing nutrition
policy; and (iii) making such policy operational through various programmatic
interventions. The staffing of the provincial Nutrition Unit wrold include a
physician, one nutrition educator and one communication specialist.. Nutrition
activities at the divisional level would be merged with the health education
units to become health/nutrition education officers in the DHDCs since: (a) the
main responsibility of the cell at division level would be education and
training; and (b) saving of recurrent costs.
14.       The strategy is to use existing health providers in contact with the
population  (in health,  education  and  agricultural  extension).    Women's
organizations and District and Union Councils would also be involved.
Nutritional activities would be integrated with other relevant services within
the facility -r program. The nutrition education program would be given priority
and would be ;-^-enforced by food preparation demonstrations as feasible.



- 78 -
Annex 5
Page 9
15.       Orientation and training are essential for all those involved in the
promotion and implementation of nutrition activities. Nutrition education and
demonstration procedures would be integrated into the technical in-service
training described elsewhere.   After health staff have integrated nutrition
education into their tasks, some orientation would be given to members of Union
Councils and leading community members.
(B) Improving Provincial and District Level Managerial Systems
16.       One of the problems with improving management in health systems is that
the job tasks and the related operational procedures are unclear. This sub-
component would develop managers' manuals for each major type of managerial
position at the provincial, district, and tehsil levels. These manuals would
take each item of the job description and define exactly how it is to be carried
out and provide samples of all the relevant planning, requisition, monitoring
and reporting forms as well as other official instructions. In this process,
out of-date procedures and systems should be identified and modified as
necessary.   These manuals would also serve as a basis for training.   This
activity would be intensive for the first three to four years of the project,
but it would be maintained as an ongoing function as systems and procedures are
ever-changing.
(C)  Improving Management and Supervisory System for PHC
17.       The project will facilitate management and supervision by the DHOs'
office.   In particular, the field supervisory tasks of the ADHO's would be
supported and regularized.   The ADHOs will visit each PHC facility in the
subdivision at least once a month and review, assist and plan its work. These
visits will feed information into the MIS system and in turn supply analyzed
information back to health facilities.
18.       The district team will produce an annual District Health Development
Plan, which will be an aggregation of local plans for every facility. The plans
should start simply with only one or two items being planned; for example, drug
supply and/or equipment maintenance. The experience of this regularized planning
and supervision would be linked to the in-service training so that they mutually
reinforce changes in performance.
(D)  DeveloDing. Monitoring and Operations Research CaDacity
19.       The capacity for program monitoring is being built up, but needs rapid
expansion if it is to provide a basis for improved data-based decision making.
Capacity for operational research will also be built up to address strategic
questions for health care development, not answerable through available
information.   The first steps for operations research would be taken by the
Research, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit of the PHDC. They should define the
research needs with the provincial and district managers. Early in the project,
operations research would be a subject covered in an action planning workshop
which should reach agreement on three or four research priorities. These should
then be planned by the staff of the Unic and carried out by a research firm,



- 79 -
Annex 5
Page 10
NGO, Pakistan Medical Research Council, Khyber Medical College, Aga Khan
University or similar organization on a contract basis.
(E) Increasing Resources for Management Functions
Improvement of the Management and Financial Information System Design and
Qeration
20.       The current management information system collects a considerable
amount of information, but much of it never leaves the facilities or the
district.  In addition, facility and district managers are not taught how to
aggregate, analyze, and use available information in their planning or
operational decision making. Therefore, little use is made even of available
information.
21.       For the provincial level and below, the Basic Health Services Project
has developed a PHC-oriented data collection and analysis system. This is being
implemented in one district in each province and seems to be working well thus
far. This will be modified and expanded through the assistance of the Child
Survival Project. This sub-component would aim for some further MIS expansion,
namely:
(a) integration of the MIS system and expansion to the district level with
computerization to allow better data analysis and quicker feedback to
PHC managers. The development of much of the computer software would
be contracted to a local computer software firm; and
(b) further development and use of the database, developed in 1989/90 with
the assistance of the ADB, so that additional district and provincial
data are maintained and can be used in decision making.
22.       On the financial side, at the provincial level, the annual sector
budget exercise is faced with the dilemma of inadequate and inappropriate
expenditure figures compounded by unsatisfactory mid-term revised estimates and
improperly functioning reporting against approved PC forms. Through the project,
a provincial level analysis will be undertaken which will describe and appraise
the existing system, and recommend system and implementation improvements
including a program for their introduction. Similar changes, as appropriate,
will subsequently be implemented at the district level and below, linked with
the other district management development activities. Also, as a short-term
step, a simple bi-annual financial reporting system will be introduced, both for
the development and recurrent budgets, to facilitate sectoral financial
monitoring.
Transport and Communications
23.       Each ADHO will be provided with one vehicle for supervision and
collecting staff for in-service training programs. Appropriate POL and TA/DA
will also be provided in order to facilitate the visiting program to health
facilities. Each district health and nutrition education officer will also be



- 80 -
Annex 5
Page 11
provided one vehicle for development and distribution of materials and education
activities.
(F) Involvement of Other Parties in Health System Management
24.       While a final decision on whether District Health Boards will be formed
at the district level has yet to be taken, it is expected that any such body
would be an advisory and would review progress, make broad recommendations for
health care development and seek public support. Health status indicators and
the system's delivery would be reviewed at meetings. The District Health Officer
would be responsible for the initiation and review of the district's health
development for the Board. The District Health Boards would probably include,
inter alia, staff from the district administration, women's organizations,
several health staff including a representative of female health workers,
representatives from the Pcpulation Welfare Department and the local government
health  system,   representatives  of  private  practioners,   and  elected
representative..
25.       Inter-sectoral collaboration could also evolve from the communities'
demands at the Union Council level. The health manager will need to attempt to
facilitate development in other sectors as well as negotiate for other or
additional resources from the DHO's office. Potential inter-sectoral programs
include water supply, education of females, ambulance services, and control of
use of dangerous drugs.
26.       The complexity and size of the different districts, with populations
from 250,000 to 3,000,000, necessitate more decentralization of decision making
and more involvement of the public in planning public health services. This will
be achieved through:
(a)  Following  increased  management capacity,  the  implementation  of
decentralization of assignments to lower levels. This will include
financial and personnel management.
(b)  Decentralization of management will be combined with decentralization
of services:   the BHU will be made the center of PHC in the Union
Council and provide as comprehensive services as possible, including
a mini-laboratory, TB services and training of CHWs, according to
circumstances and staffing.
27.       A chart summarizing the provincial management training and supervision
system follows.



PAKISTAN: FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT FRAMEWORK
Institutional Development Component--Organization & Management
OBJECT./STRAT.              INTERVENTIONS                         INDID ECISIONS
I. BUILD
INSTITUTIONAL
CAPACITY TO
REALIZE PROGRAM
OBJECTIVES &
PREPARE FOR FUTURE
INTERVENTIONS
A.  Modify            IA.    Establish Provincial           IA.    PHDC will be fully             IA.    Agreement on
organizational                Health Development                    staffed & funded within              roles/tasks of
structure                     Centers (PHDC) & District             12 months; DHDCs will be             PHDCs; staffing and
slightly.                     Health Development                    staffed and operational              operational budget
Centers (DHDC).                      with project phasing.                 approval; site
selections &
construction         X
contracting.
B.  Increase          IB.    Develop in-service             IB.    In service training plans    IB.    Staff & Budget
Management staff              management training for               and materials (1 yr.);               allocation to
at district &                 provincial and district               training records of all              develop training;
improve managerial            management staff; fill                teams attending at least             staff & budget
& supervisory                 vacant management posts.              1 course/qtr. all                    allocation to
performance.                                                        following years;                     develop O/P
operations/procedural                manuals.
manuals (1 yr.).
OI
~UI



OBJECT./STRAT.         INTERVENTIONS                        INDICATORS                           DECISION(S)
C.  Improve           IC.    Planning, operations &        IC.    Procedures & systems          IC.    Level of
provincial &                 evaluation procedures                installed within 1 year;             decentralization;
district level               will be developed; also              procedures integrated                staff time and
managerial systems           use as basis for in-                 into in-service training.            budget allocated;
& procedures.                service training.                                                         computer equipment
procurement.
D. Improve &          ID.    Procedures will be            ID.    Supervisory procedures        ID.    Staff time and
operationalize               developed; supervisors               available within 9 mo.;              budget allocations
mgmt. &                      will be trained in                   supervision records;                 for procedure
supervisory system           procedures.                          TA/DA budget expenditure             development; which
for PHC                                                           annually.                            procedures need
facilities.                                                                                            modification.
E. Develop            IE.    Make OR a function of         IE.    R/E posts created and         IE.    What are managerial
operations                   PHDC; train staff in OR              staffed; training within             & operational
research (OR)                design & mgmt. skills;               9 mo.; some studies                  problems which need
capacity at                  contract most OR studies.            complete within 18 mo.;              OR study; study
provincial level                                                  results used in mgmt.                design & selection  X
decision making.                    criteria; OR
contracting
procedures.
F.  Increase          IF.    Create decision support       IF.    Design of expanded            IF.    Decision supports
resources for                systems with information             prov./dist. MIS                      priority needs;
management &                 bases & analysis                     operations (coordinated              information system
supervisory                  programs; add transport              w/other on-going                     design; best
functions.                   so managers can move to              efforts); purchase                   vehicle type for
PHC activities; ensure              requisite vehicles as                supervision for
TA/DA availability.                 districts phased into                varying district
program; TA/DA                      conditions;
allocations to meet                 realistic TA/DA
supervision/in-serv.                annual requirements
training schedules.                 by district.
OQ0



OBJECT. /STRAT.        INTERVENTIONS                        INDICATORS                           DECISION(S)
STAFF DEVELOPMENT
II. To increase
the training
capacity, improve
the training
performance, and
support of health
workers available
to realize project
goals/objectives.
A. Develop and        IIA.1  Develop a female staff        IIA.1  Training reflects the         IIA.1  Amalgamation of
strengthen pre-              plan to train adequate               projected staff                      LHV/FHT roles.
service training             numbers of female health             requirements.
capacity                     workers.
especially for
female health
workers.
IIA.2  Provide midwifery            IIA.2  Midwifery component of        IIA.2  Additional
training for FHTs.                  FHT training programs is             midwifery training
strengthened.                       to be a requirement
in programs.
IIA.3  Curricula review of pre-    IIA.3  Curricula reviewed for         IIA.3  Relationship of
service programs by study           PHC, especially MCH,                 study groups to
groups at PHDC.                     content, deficiencies                regulatory bodies.
identified, curricula
modules, educational
materials available to
tutors/trainers
Educational Center
established at PHDC.
0u



OBJECT. /STRAT.         INTERVENTIO                           INDICATORS                           DECISION(S
IIA.4  Provide technical             IIA.4  Expatriate and national        IIA.4  Selection of
assistance to PHDC for               expertise available to                experts.
curricula review and                 study groups.
development of curricula
modules, educational
materials.
IIA.5  Provide short-term            IIA.5  Nurse tutors trained and       IIA.5  Expected date for
training for nurse tutors            available.                            new schools to be
and tutors in LHV and FHT                                                  operational in
programs.                                                                  order to phase in
tutor training.
B.  Develop post-     IIB.1  Construct a post               IIB.1  College of Nursing
graduate training             certificate College of                operational with training
capacity.                     Nursing at Jamshoro.                  capacity for 40; one year
(Sindh)                                                       training available for
nurse tutors, ward
supervisors i the first
years, one year training
in specialty area, e.g.
OT offered in later
years.
IIB.2  Provide technical              IIB.2  Technical assistance used
assistance on a full-time            to develop curricula,
basis for one year                   educational materials.
followed by consultation
in subsequent years.
C.  Develop           IIC.1  Make functional and            IIC.1  Schools at Kohat Marden
training capacity.            enlarge schools of                    and D.I. Khan are
(N.W.F.P.)               nursing.                              functional (hostels,
classrooms, libraries,
and other teaching
equipment/materials,
vehicles.                                                  x



OUECT.STRAT.            INTERNION                                ICATORS                           DECISION(S)
IIC.2  Construct a school of         IIC.2  School is functional
nursing at Saidu Sarif,              (hostel, equipment,
Swat.                                space, vehicles,
educational materials).
IIC.3  Make functional 3 schools    IIC.3  Schools for LHV's               IIC.3  Assess hostels for
for training LHV's and               functioning at above SONs             LHVs at these 3
increase training                    at Harden.  Resources                 locations.
capacity.                            shared with SONs at these
locations, e.g. tutors,              Nurse, not a
libraries, classrooms,               medical officer, to
vehicles, one principal              be in charge of
(nurse) for both schools.            both training
programs.
Amalgamation of LHV
and FHT role and      I
training              X
facilities.
IIC.4  Minor upgrading at Saidu      IIC.4  Upgrading complete.            IIC.4  Distribution of
Sariff Paramedical                                                         seats among cadres
Institute.                                                                 of paramedical
technicians eg. OT,
X-Ray, lab, and
across training
institutions to
reflect projected
manpower needs.
D. Improve            IID.A  Develop a system for in-       IID.1  Cadre of master trainers       IID.A  Criteria for
performance and               service training that is              at the provincial level              selection of
support of all                geared to learning needs,             and a cadre of trainers              trainers.
cadres of health              is interactive,                       at the district level are                                 6 
workers.                      reinforced and supported              providing in-service                                     00
in the work situation.               training.                                                   N



OBJECT.,/STRAT.        IERVEN     S                        INDICATORS                         DECISION(S)
IID.2  Provide technical           IID.2  Curriculum modules and
assistance for curricula            educational materials
review, development of             based on review of pre-
educational materials and           service and in service
training of trainers.              education and training
and assessment of
learning needs of
trainers are available.
IID.3 Curricula review of pre-
service and in-service
educational training
programs.
0'X
OQ



OBJECT./STRAT.         INTERVENTIONS                        INDICATORS                           DECISION(S)
IID.4  Initiate in-service          IID.4  In-service training           IID.4  Phasing in of in-
training.  Provision of             provided for all cadres              service to coincide
trainers/resources at               of health workers,                   with development of
PHDC and DHDCs.                      initial workshops                   health services at
followed by workshops               district level.
every year to reinforce
training and assess
learning needs. Feedback
loops established between
work situation and
district/provincial
trainers. Educational
materials curricula
modules available.
refined and developed
further. In-service
training coordinated
through PHDC and provided
at district level through                               @
DHDC. On-going
evaluation of
effectiveness and most
appropriate method/
location.
E.  Improve career   IIE.1  Develop job descriptions       IIE.1  Job descriptions
paths and                    which reflect job                    acceptable to each cadre
incentives for all           expectations.                        of health worker in
health workers.                                                   place.
IIE.2  Provide midwifery            IIE.2  FHT's qualified in            IIE.2  Length of training
training for FHT's                  midwifery.                           and location.
IIE.3  Explore incentives for       IIE.3  Incentives in place.          IIE.3  Nature of
health workers,                                                          incentives.
particularly women, to                                                                       0 x
work in rural areas.                                                                          X
%ai



OBJECT, ISUAT,         INTELII                              INDICATORS                           DNCISION(S)
IIE.4  Provide fellowships for      IIE.4  Fellows selected and          11E.4  Criteria for
advanced preparation in             studying.                            selection.
PHC.
F.  Facilitate        IIF.1  Initiate a motivational       IIF.l  Girls schools visited        IIF.1  Coordination of
recruitment into             program.                             annually prior to matric             this activity by
female paramedical                                                exams, by tutors to speak            College of Nursing
training programs.                                                about nursing as a career            or manpower group
choice.  College of                 of PHDC.
Nursing prepares tutors
for motivational role.
Mass public campaign
through use of media-
radio, TV, newspaper.
An increase in the number
of female health workers                                 X
enrolling in training
programs and
accepting/retaining posts
in rural areas.
Incentives in place.
HEALTH EDUCATION
III.  Develop an             Create HEd sections in               Staffing, equipping and              Location of PHDC
expanded capacity            DHDC. Expand HEd at Prov.            budgeting of sections                section; who will
to deliver health            level by adding section              within 12 mo. for PHDC               be hired or
education programs           to PHDC.                             and with phasing for                 promoted into these
at prov. div. &                                                   DHDCs.                               posts.
dist. levels.



OBJECT./STRAT.         INTERVENTIONS                        INDICATORS                           DECISION(S)
IV.  Improve the             Provide training to staff            Training materials                   What REd tasks
performance of all           & make HEd tasks                     developed; training                  should be done by
health staff in              reinforced through                   conducted for all PHC                which cadre; how
HEd tasks.                   supervision.                         cadres within 6 years HEd            HEd can be
tasks integrated into               integrated with
supervision training.               other Technical
training.
V. Influence the             Mass media campaigns;                Surveys of health                    What are the
public's health              exhibitions at public                behavior; records on                 specific health
behavior through             events; community                    media use and budget                 behaviors which
dissemination of             presentations.                       expenditure on media                 should be
health related                                                    contracts; records of                influenced, in what
information.                                                      media                                order; what media
events/presentations.               are the most
effective to reach
the public; what
will various
programs cost; how  a
to pre-and post
test/survey
behavior change.
VI.  Change school           Develop and implement an             The existence of school              What programs
children's health            active school health                 health education                     should be first
behavior by                  education program                    materials; survey of                 priority in various
providing accurate           (particularly in Sindh               children's knowledge &               areas; how to train
information on the           where NOs are already                attitudes on health                  & motivate the MOs
consequences of              engaged to do this).                 practices specific to and            to actually carry
good and poor                                                     relevant for their                   out such a program;
health related                                                    geographic area and                  how and when to
action.                                                           environmental conditions.            survey the
children.
-0
out



OBJECT./STRAT.         INTERVENTIONS                       INDICATORS                           DECISION(S)
NUTRITION
Staffing, equipping and             Location of PHDC
VII.  Develop an             Create Nut. sections in             budgeting of sections                section; who will
expanded capacity            DHDC.  Expand Nut. at               within 12 mo. for PHDC &            be hired or
to deliver                   prov. level by adding               Phasing for DHDCs.                  promoted into these
Nutrition programs           section to PHDC.                                                        posts; how the
at prov. div. &                                                                                       supplies will be
Dist. levels.                                                                                        handled.
VIII.  Improve the           Provide nutritional                 Training materials                  What nutrition
performance of               training to staff & make            developed.  Training                 tasks should be
more health staff            tasks reinforced through            conducted for all PHC                done by which
in nutrition                 supervision.                        cadres within 6 years.              cadre; how
related tasks                                                    Nutrition tasks                     nutrition can be
(especially PHC                                                  integrated into                     integrated with
staff).                                                          supervision training.               other Technical
training.
IX. Influence the            Mass media campaigns;               Surveys of nutrition                What are the
public's nutrition           exhibitions at public               behavior to follow on                specific nutrition
behavior through             events; community                   work such as the National            behavior which
dissemination of             presentations &                     Nutrition Survey; growth            should be
nutrition related            demonstrations; and                 monitoring records.                  influenced--in what
information.                 growth monitoring.                                                      order; what media
are the most
effective to reach
the public; what
will various
programs cost; how
to pre-and post
test/survey
behavior change.
UV



OBJECT. /STRAT.        INTERVENTIONS                      INDICATORS                          DECISION(S)
X. Change the               Develop program for                 Amounts of supplement              What criteria and
health status of            nutritional supplements             distributed; changes in            measurement tools
selected groups in          provision.                          nutritional status among           should be used to
specific areas                                                  groups receiving                   determine needs;
through the                                                     supplements.                       how to design and
provision of food                                                                                  operate the
supplements for                                                                                    logistical system
those with                                                                                         to provide the
respective                                                                                         supplements.
deficiencies.
1U
'Cp
I-b



- 92 -
Annex 6
Page 1
PAKIST.^
FIA)LY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Public Health Administration & Project Organization
1.        After an introductory paragraph on the federal structure, this annex
focuses on the structure of the provincial level public health organizatlon and
on how the proposed project structure relatea to it.
Public Health Administration
Federal Level
2.        The Ministry of Health (MOH), in association with the Ministry of
Planning and Development and Ministry of Finance, is responsible for health
policy-making.   With the exception of the provision of health services for
government employees and the Federal District of Islamabad and containment of
communicable diseases (such as malaria), MOH is not responsible for providing
health services directly. It coordinates health service provision through the
provincial health departments and independent autonomous bodies such as the
National Health Institute.'  Organization charts for the health services at
federal and provincial levels are presented in Charts LA and 1B. The federal
government retains overall responsibility for the coordination and orderly
management and development of all health services. The main work of the MOH is
carried out through the Minister, Secretary and Director General of Health to
whom report a range of deputy director generals, deputy secretaries and project
directors.
Provincial Level
3.        Provincial health departments have responsibility for providing health
services. The provincial Secretary formulates health policy, exercises final
control over the budget and has direct control over teaching hospitals and
special institutions.   The provincial Director of Health Services (DHS) is
responsible for preventive and curative services; all District Health Officers
(DHO) and Superintendents of District Hospitals report to him as do all
provincial heads of 'priority programs' and vertical programs, e.g. nursing,
basic health services, maternal and child health headed by the Inspectress of
Health Services,  and malaria control.   Lack of coordination between the
Secretariat and the Directorate often hinders smooth implementation. Significant
decisions relating to districts, e.g., appointment of middle level and senior
t Other federal goverment organizations which provide basic health servioes include the &mad forces
md various public enterprisos.



93 -
Anelx 6
Page 2
staff and budget allocations, are made at the provincial level. Organizational
arrangements differ somewhat between provinces.
District Level
4.        District services include (a) a district health office headed by a
DHO reporting to the DHS; (b) a District Headquarters Hospital, headed by a
Medical Superintendent also reporting directly to the DHS; (c) tehsil hospitals,
Rural Health Centers, Basic Health Units, dispensaries, and Maternal and Child
Health Centers reporting to the DHO; (d) local management of vertical programs
reporting on technical matters to the respective provincial heads of each
program, e.g. immunization and malaria control and to the DHO on administrative
matters; (e) municipal health services (including environmental sanitation)
controlled by municipal authorities; and (f) population welfare, through a
District Population Welfare Officer, who has the same level as the DHO but
reports to the provincial Secretary/Director General population. Thus, there
are minimally four district level officers, who have to coordinate the provision
of health services.   In the larger towns and cities, a major part of the
establishment, maintenance and management of hospitals and health centers, and
environmental health and sanitation are assigned to municipal councils and
corporations; a few of these operate sizeable systems. (Proposals have been made
to establish District Health Boards in each district.   While their exact
functions have yet to be decided, it is likely that they will be advisory and
include representatives of the Health Department and of other departments and
authorities concerned, together with representatives of other interested
organisations including NGOs and elected officials.)
5.        DHOs have responsibility for overall health matters in their district.
However, in practice, DHOs lack the authority needed to appoint, dispose and
discipline staff; manage budgets and authorize repairs; and plan and coordinate
the activities of their districts. Moreover, their status compares unfavorably
with those of District Hospital Superintendents, creating serious disincentives
for preventive versus curative medical work.
Project Organization
6.        The proposed project has been designed to support and improve the
existing organization and structure of the two provincial Departments of Health.
The main text summarizes the proposed project management and implementation
arrangements, including the establishment of:
(a) a Project Steering Committee (senior level members);
(b) a Project Technical Committee (working level members);
(c) a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by the Project Director;
(d) a Provincial Health Development Centre and District Health Development
Centres mainly, but not exclusively, to facilitate the implementation
of the in-service and management development components.



- 94 -
Anne 6
Page 3
7.        The activities concerned with strengthening maternal health services
and improving the effectiveness of communicable disease control programs will
be implemented through the existing Deputy Directors concerned of the Department
of Health (DOH). Thus, it should be stressed that:
(a) the implementation of the project components will be largely through
and supportive of the existing channels within the provincial DOH.
Where no suitable channel exists, the project would of necessity create
one, but it would be firmly set within the existing DOH structure.
The project will not establish any new systems to parallel existing
structures.
(b)  the PIU would:    facilitate project implementation;  assist with
coordination; be responsible for project reporting, accounts, auditing,
etc.; supervise progress of the construction program; and conduct all
bidding, procurement and disbursement operations (see main text). It
would not, itself, implement the project.
A diagram summarizing these linkages is at Chart 2.  Further information on
Steering and Technical Committee membership and on PIU staffing is given in the
main text.
Provincial Health DevelORment Center (PHDC)
8.        As described in the main text, the PHDCs will comprise four units:
management development, staff development, health and nutrition education; and
research and monitoring. Each unit would have the following functions:
(a) The Management Development Unit would be responsible for supporting
provincial planning and relating it to management systems, management
information systems, logistics, communication, financing, and designing
and implementing provincial level management training. It would also
assist with district level management and supervisory training.
(b)  The Staff Development Unit would be responsible for in-service training
development, both technical and non-technical aspects. It would assist
with assessing training needs, design and develop course packages and
modules, train trainers at divisional and district levels, and conduct
some provincial level courses.
(c) The Health and Nutrition Education Unit would develop and provide pre-
service  and  in-service  training  to  health  professionals  in
communication skills. Training for these tasks would be an integral
part of most '.n-service technical training courses rather than separate
courses.   The program would also include:   assistance for and
coordination of the work of the district health/nutrition educators;
developing prototype health education materials; and coordination with
other related education activities such as those of the Department of
Population Welfare.



- 95 -
Page 4
(d) The Research and Monitoring Unit would promote field studies (mainly
through contracts), coordinate monitoring activities and systems and
facilitate operational research.
The proposed staffing is:
Management Development Unit:
1    program director/planner (Director of overall PHDC)
1    public health doctor/PHC management trainer
1    hospital administration trainer
2    computer operators/typists
Staff Development Unit:
1    program director/in-service training planner
3    in-service trainers (1 MO, 1 PHC & 1 clinical nurse)
1    training administrative assistant
2    computer operators/typists
Health and Nutrition Education Unit:
1    program director/health educator
1    health education planners/trainers
2    media research/design officers (1 male, 1 female)
3   media specialists/technicians
and for nutrition work:
1    program director
2    nutrition research and education officers
2    computer operators/typists
Research, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit
1    program director/health systems research specialist
2    evaluation officers
2    records olerk/computer operators
General PHDC Support Staff
2    drivers
5    Naib Qasids
1    sweeper
1    Chowkidar
Each unit would also have the necessary clerical, other support staff, and
drivers in accordance with standard Government regulations.



- 96 -
Page 5
It will not be necessary for all the professional staff positions to be
additional and for new staff to be recruited. A few of these functions are
already being carried out by individuals elsewhere within the DOH and they will
be transferred. A chart showing the structure and functions of the PHDC is
attached.
District Health DeveloRment Center (DHDC)
9.        A similar chart, showing the structure and functions of a DHDC is also
attached. A summary of the functions and staffing of the DHDCs is given in the
main text.



- 97 -
Annex 6
Chart 1
PROVINCIAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT CENTRE
PROVINCIAL
HEALTH
DEVELOPMENT
CENTRE
MNAGEMENT           STAFF         HEALTH EDUCATION        RESEARCH &
DEVELOPME      [ DEVELOPNM       & NUTRITION CELL         MONITORING    UNITS
|m v INRV          ANPOVER  |      PLAN CAMPAIGNS   |      L M ITORATE 
PROCEDURES        PLANNING        COORD. NUT. PLANS       MONITORING   FUNCTIONS
DESIGN & RUN      CURRICULUM       PRODUCE MATERIAL|S        DESIGN
TRAINING       DEVELOPMENT        COORD. NUT. ACT.       OPERATIONAL  FUNCTIONS
RESEARCH
HIS DESIGN &      IN-SERVICE |IN-SDVICE                    IN-SERVICE
PROGRAMIGING       TRAINING                                 TRAINING    FUNCTIONS



- 98 -
Annex 6
Chart 2
DISTRICT HEALTH DEVELO-PMENENTBR
DISTRICT
HEALTH
DEVELOPMENT
CENTR
F               I              I     I1
^MAGEMENT    [   STAFF          HEALTH EDUCATION        MONITORING
DEVELOPMENT   [ DEVELOPMENT]       & NUTRITION          RESEARCH/EVAL  UNITS
AS REQUIRED,       DEFINE   1      PLAN CAMPAIGNS &        INTEGRATE
ADAPT          TRAINING         LOCAL ACTIVITIES        MONITORING   FUNCTIONS
PROCEDURES        NEEDS
MIs          CURRICULUM        PRODUCE SIMPLE     *    DESIGN      *
COORDINATION      SELECT &            MATERIALS        *  OPERATIONAL  *FUNCTIONS
& OPERATION        MODIFY                              *   RESEARCH    *
*         FOR   *
*         THE
MODIFY[~  -     I- -           ED.     *  IN-S RVIC    *
NODIFY      | TECHNICAL         HEALTH/NUT. RD.        IN-SERVICE
& RUN       I IN-SERVICE |        IN-SERVICE     ] *   TRAINING    *FUNCTIONS
TRAINING        TRAINING            TRAINING      J  1               *
*******   **



Xf1ftt 7
P8010180                                    ~~~~~~~pap  I of 3
otmlLv~~~~~~~~~~~~?tf | ot
table I MAIN ttf0111t CUVOOPI
GINO" PMI0VG
0648*~ ~   ~    ~~zttlt stytt                          10tJU4 IIWWJ3¶OIC Intt tt lu C"infrtI
8. CIVIL 0040I
............ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ..  .........   ..   ...........    .........  .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....
I. 41tCH POOCVIOCIOL 41PVICtU
0"NoY  0Vt/St   CMittiitt                146l00              00    Io 10 l               s      *      040        .    10,         6,1    10164ft    OU.04             4.0' Ot O "               nt14
Rl010V  TA f0* SOSPII0oSS wall                          *    10    10    10    10        4             4          *    1106 C       0D.40       Ittt   10.10          0.               *      40010
.......................... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~..        ..........:;          ...........         ..
nI-olet 01101N P00VINOCIoL 008*0001.04                                                                                                 0004      0.107    100.014    10,10 19                 1,040,101
0. OuPooft^vlolw t3ut#"                    hhtR                             .0            .         .       .             ,n         non         11,00       coo'f      0.6             -     ;40,40
000 P1.11 CsINICS I0000009081I           ttlP           .                  1            .        ..               .          .cel        *          .o               .           .         .  1,0
NliOW 000*0t 0 It01 10005OcIII^           MaUltStt            0     0 .          .       .      -       4         .    10004      104,00 *004,5  *                                            3 1
S       tlO. 011150*1, HttRO             0tf                                                                                           4t0  .                                                    It
00165 t0tl1RtlCOP1 ClOTh                  *ol                tt   -t 0o                                                  0,40 'tO0 *  Dft  *                                                  10.0504ftts soOft §OsFt s   G   *f 
00f>5 zOIOPINtt40Ir*OO                    mtOO                o     O s    O    W *           O         C       o        *.o        10.00       cn          tt            t .     Df         t 04.047ll -Stt 
0.TlI  II  I0I06000
0.IOI0II                                                                                                             . gF.70    40.01    81.61    10.04    10.0                           *   .001a
I. 0110  PROV   INCIAL  PACILIS                                                                                                                                                               09
RHC 01H SC ;*    l                       r OOOOO  #0*        00  .0  tN    tOo          tott tt  34              -t    0.00        0604   *1.0   *1.0                 £100         t         400
as1IIIONT..*                                                10 to         0     0       o MU00I                   -     14.1:06     10.00        17.0     1170        $,04.370
01f40 1. m 0-P08 It.tr                                        0     0      .                   -       I S              0I.0       11O.00 Ft4.00
onTALKSt 000P 0001t0*1OU100                at.t.t       .           5      - .     .        .          t                       .O  *       ..... 0...0   *      *.. . .4
tOLAIS   IPPO   03                          0                10il1U InIttoe     IS II I                                              ft04  14,100  01.00 .O f44        10              -      70. 1
IALKftAt COP 106100                        010               tO  tO tO          O                     040 *S SI          4.401       4100    4C.VftO       1.0 -C                              0.401
CISET^tOICT15. OLsTRAO                     0.0ti  -t           0    0 *  3                             10 4.00                      4004                        -          .       .          cocalOSO*         iS
10H KIlOttC 11*100                                      -tV Ir  I          I     I       *       .               '4  -  ' '!:'!    ! '!0.000' 4.'40       5.4:         : ....  .: ftt . n
S   05-T1o6l  CIVIOL CONS SAYS   11            .C  ItN If I                         I11.C0 11.000      11. 10                                                 1,1  10.01      0 I  tt.*6t
I6IT0IICN SCALE                            WIl                W   100  1000  100,        0            00          -a004             1,10       0.0          104.4     .1               .      74a
31161t100 STte Il tS4                    n                  100   too    o                                        -        .1       t0,400     00,000          1                       - :   o.004
am1l0tl0   OFF   ICtN PSOtS                Of           ..I                                                       - .0.064 .  .                                            - .6 S0C
0013111060051100 OKIPt HONTP V             0t           *   1      100   I00   100    .10      .      10          .      01,7        6.4        0.45 *,    0S OttO  *0 It6 0 4
0*1401h  1  PROS  WlTt                     SC                                                                     .      c1o.        R .o       * 7O*0t
-  OAL1IeqOOUCip. 01.. tAll?                SCla ;                                                      4                 0..  .07*             I                                             3 5.14
1T0*1.11 1011f0.     / CISIC  1*0 luSU                  .    £      6      .     .       .      .                  -      1.        10 Is= .    G.                       .             .       1; 0Z
0--*06001 OOltROel P1tOLItN *00*                                                                                                ;      j   s;      j  b       j   0;§t|s
A P        C I                                                                   I                                                     .                                                      0...4C
NOW ,08*0 lmeo 'a                           er                     0t     i     Is            ,-        43                           10.40      1040Z0.0
DISTRICT OIP.......O........... S.                                                                                        gist           .                      .
xt010 Pt0N   LIHe    =091*.                                  it°   0t                                             - !010                 - :040 1       °to  1  ° o. It  D                    048lt34Of
1010a1 HDT  101    t1011                                . 0          I                   .                               0 SCt I       60        6 0                          .      -   * -100
10010 MITI   011010                        S                        0     4 *d                          0         .       ,  .1      5,44      fl,03        7,00                       .      07.64s
MILI .,,,  *10                             SC           -...................0.01
COiWOIICAIIO0  OUP.                         SC                                   - .           *        I .  .       . I1101t   .                               .           .          *01.1
51*T1610*5014 SCAISOWOLIT*N*00*                                          -no3101 4I 000                                                          14.101    141 0,0                           V.0.0
tx* -1t*t1 1 ft140007                                                                                                 -    610.000 t501.044    416,016S803.04t   110.61t                       3,g4 ,3 t
C. P00011001~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           TO 10          o    o                                                     I01
I. 011011 POOSINCIAL PACILIOISO ~ =41                                                                            111e       ":                                                        -
101STI00I01 OltSt6R00tf4                                     00    10   '0       0       5      .       S0               t001        6,64        ft70       0.400! !.1            -  -   --3--4-0
10ub  10  OOCs h1R0e64                                         10PtPLJ  0R                                                 .f 00t - 0. 4   1040   *0  .4                                         16.ft  *t47
TALKS IP ONRITALC50                                                                                                      4.04       V410        4.0 4a7 IN ti N;;
0. 9    0*011  OM ?"OO1I*  *018                                             ?      ?1                                                   .0?       860          .1.1
003:  KON J   CI4   SHIRT0S3O-                                                                          I          -     J. I         .s".11.                               .                    .0
111010091P006  000111.0SC                                 I           .              .      IT                         so       8.4         1 -41      .iaa         .104.
EXITRIING  COM1 ING  000011*1.5            00ISO 1                                       0             0           .      540-                   064--1.
1A101100  OIPO I*0I                       SC04-  a                                                    8          .          .      It. 104                                                        "I0 .13.-  ,
5*  ..7*10     CI3V,4 009OITI   a0*                                                                                                                                                             So.81.00 1073  010.*  33
HILH  OC                                                                                                                        70,00       0,14       0.04NI,01 0W00W00.0



Annex 7
Table I
Pope 2 of 3
diOl@, I 1600114 0401603  O4YCIOIU
1410411  rvcl 905001 OI4*
I 111611 90051101                                                                                                                                                          leo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~911101 ct NDA
00601  nan                 00    00    40                          tOG           .     10.424     00,402     02,445           -                       -    24oaisInold-;  Cmt emott
*w  no ICITWICs        na.r                so   to   in        o                    20           . ~~e1.01e    420,442    121,044        41.140           -                 4. .1046
2.1406 9*01 -CTIHO9 0.44                                                                                                             12.11 44        co      net                               .322.0
mUNA IS.l WACOr                                                     SO                                  2          -    21.44        2714                                               .      14.0107.67
4. 19420 94041                 401..-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0       1                           4            -.2.....12.... ......  ........
1*T*14I 56141-0161I                                                                                                      1,040.41  4.104.ISlso22sl2 4......                                    2,314.022
4  4060 N1040  1604119                                                                                                4,4* 4.4:4.14                .           .9      10. 181411
2- 101601101 10410116~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 43                                                                                         329
ell41o'l64A041S  10161144                  l0124                      4     0     *4                                        010        221         224         .4                                  .0 
(F1leeI NOLO- .h01010 11120494                                        4     4                                                  4          54         5                                             .o
U9.  0b011110  11                           orll                4     I     4                    I       *                  a0to        0154                         .......... .......  ..        .411
PP. 40v4c1111 6 IILCIA  40 r                                    t    2     2      e u                           1.0         022        102          .4         .04-.i
#9   4540114                              hO.;                       I     2             0      2       0                  0486       0,14       4.1241      1. 164     4.0se.e40.
CC,   00 I  1C""0.                                        4      2    40 30           f  140                    .       2,61lshp    00  0.4S   010"244               1.20-                   4.4
COVO t9820511101a 14010151.                                                                                                                     IS       4    003  020 2.00  10,004  22 .2  2.111  a.""
010 LO 4la)                                jLhP1 4                  0     3 0            -s  -0       20                  4.2017      6.45       0.10 S.tD   0.220     WAE        32 .1        2122
M0 04 lti)                               0000           -     4     4     4      I       4     I       0                   .5        4.1         101        1.h4P       .010       101         40.410
.82up,1 45044p/ON Ila,                                                                                                                ' 4 4 4.  0 .  .40 220  2.202  2.220
OlOWIt   101 10   .r                                          4     2                                   41411                        10".40      024-.so
TRAINI440N0  122/C                       k..                             II                                      -      100         1401       4 qfthp.124     --                             a4. n4
FP0TRANIN V#8 U140 A 16004444           001462                2      0    24                            4                   o         4.104      4,3S  .n
I,,: "I" IO4CIIWI 42121e21-                             .    4             -0                                             1114:         .3           . 31 
1611   6C.,iO.IItI6OS                    hPa        .           ..                                                   840                   10.012      ".6          ..W                   41.14
a, #2alf                         400.;                      4     0 120          5     26220 2?i                    633.11  4an40      200.044    21            00W       1.4          0.200
I015#410/)0*0.                                        I,    I                                                    424        440         401          .1           31      000         3.4
CDC:1100Pfl.400.40.y3f.                                        I        lie,3                                            0214        22.22       1.44       5.605.
100111400104. 4202            -~~~~~~~~~SNt nun     4           0     2              .        0                 404         04.0      S.00          02 I                     .       o .olo"
NW1010 #Lsw                               nu                  4      0     4     2        .            IS          .       .00         .0        1.001        0071                              0.el?
tott.tna,m t.eInts,                                           4                           4     4                        4.12        1.041      2.4        2.02        212        2.00         10.40
osn442sp.I                                                             4 2al$2l200                                                    ,5     1.1213      4.324      4.Se40a10
Itt001LOA  104NNG8010I"O                                                                                                                            S                                            1
IL 'T"FDCTOa NOf 0 I58L1...........                                  .      .      .      .      .      ......2.440......4.010.4.401                                   ...40             ......10.0
04140040      0£91a                                   3     4     4      5-                          14    40.501IING  02. 417    012.406    141.0311    g.  .                        -     i00as
2. ,19011011 0ei50LP051  .
..u.t..0 .0....104h013                                           33010                      toa. .. .. -ts    04       36.10      42 401    13.4402      41o?    14 ,350        44.39040    4102.0W
I'toollOCl  CIC       511464.0                                                                                            540       16440.21    2614.450    344.0M     40.004      40. 444    9146.45
11.ISAIII 64.00:*901001
1041030164-1111 flictS MINING00 10 40                                              00     0             .0                   0.410    0$.54       44.3214     416.6414   11s 1. 412               40. NO  01
TR1@  IN 1641411 . OCIOatff                                                                                                 4000        0.80.004I               42.W     00410.4
10101 1006510001 00111                                                                                        00.436  201  64.2 .0443 .0,2 Set,.2                       40.41     04361      2.401,04



* lot
ea  ~                     ~=
Pegs S of S
Vogel. santo  murznsuwweinu
elm.11141 Ca e 411,m,
~~~~~~~~~~~....... ...... s.e. .......    ......................*.  z.....                           ......................
11I                          0/a   o           so  wn   w  a           M/91 I1119                  Totals ceml l4hSCd2lllWl
........................    ......  ..   ......                                     ...    ..  . I  I I.  ..........  .....   ....                    .....   ..................
El.StCan I  SAMt
6                                         .flec§ .    30    30    40    S                  0        0 t,6                                415.043     41,06       10,006e  5, so;          mm;        4061;3
WA0 HSAtIN  041051*.ot                                         10    IS    so    40        to    40       0RS          .        .610      IS.913      16.440      31,025s     40,110      61I01 M      46,014
1c641  4LL06:5)                           so/v4 .               Ig                                                                                                                                          rg Ig I^ I@ In Ie 6§ e 8  0  .4  .4  3,U  6*1.   .01
TIAtIS W ON.a/                                           .     "I     I      1   10              I        I .  IS.1                         1       3.4 "1. 046             3,e'1  OnT l0 U.U     I
10 aTOIeI131  SVNIL$0                                                                                                          6.8.0W      10.0.61     110. 44     1,6.11    gonM            et          Sn
...........................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                                                                   ..........
SIIIIIMI                                   .10W           .                        If       II    II       46                  SAWl         130       11.04$       o a0.6S1  N08          n1.1e.1      U14.1t
.ItI I  SDCIALITIS                        a-Vow                                                                                                       t .  9                                           10  .  11  I .  4o   e   4  .  131,010
HUM6l                   Heyse                             *     4      6    to    33       32    as        *0                            . 1601          4 * ."'              39,05       14            1*4"
1401 5*1111613119*  5180.'  .  1    6     6      5        6     6       40          *       3.461       4*04        1.3W        1.464       1.66*       6.116       06.14$: .11  U  0  0  44.60
InICLIm    0c90l0                                                      ,    30    s        4      40      146                  4.o      *en*         e 18.43O    341.443      1.6432     40.61        0.461
....................... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~.. ......... ..........!                                      .... .. .....  !         ..
TAVLLLSAHICII                             sv.             .     I      I     i      i   *          I        9      ° .         4i1         9.0         6.11        5.1         6. §       a464  6,1    61."461
I1D-T0101 6*8601  501806. Alto 11*99                                                                                             314          1.1         4.039    141.411    n4eI41        114.1144      n. .
S. SIAl* I*OICAIs Ot 1A W
......... ....!.......
--OIICIAe                                                       4     4      6     5   101 0                                              A  '        e . co0 6. I ."o 4,0  4.0   10324.6S4    . W   * 9t.6
109151 31P~499                           eye.               O  6     O 6O  6       6        6     6       43                  4.no6       6,6         616     m   9.10  t 0.  
SUPPORT SLUII                               /~                                                                                15.23        10.010      1.44           To04     111        3.M110         s 15.40
no14 DIES)                                lw/W,                  I                           I     I        C16.1113$                     10.016      10.444      91.046      *1ZI        33.10       11.64
......................
tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                       "'O   11. M,                          MA A         .42          S"     *!!        ts ?    44FUS
sw~vola  fl"nMK                                                                                             .......  .....;:   .    .....   . !.... !  .....    ..   ! ....  ..o.... .... ....
10111ICUUI     tltl                                                                                                           .H  gW"^ o1,33   15.tt 4     316,611n    i; ioifl   1.13.041i;i; i44 *   6;;.31.6*1.
6. 81110*L   R16    if0 A1199t111104                                                                                                                                 s.            "1"       11.11        .414
_I.  _  L01 _ _ 1 1_ 1 _, _                                                                                                                                                                           M  on
.AMW1                 0    10 30           30 40         .0                   9.6        0.W        11.1         1.40       30144A.0                 .0.1
-°c i tMIII  $                                                 10te   30l     30fo   10    40    10°         11 re0   .           t      60.10       *iei         n.m       110. of      14.*        4 40.146
...- *t&   D ITO " O   =    M..P.S... .                                                                                     ..... ... .. . .. ...... .. ..                     . . .. ... . .. . . . .. .. .
tCUlIII  113061141 111                      v r.~         -    10    10    *0    10        30    10       1O0         .      46.167      40.110    10.6=        4106.41   O14t1         114681    O4.038
20-Tol   1110o4 9 60 53ISO 4V                                                                                                  134.9116    t 24.601    s 80.40      so         336.68  06,196 a 113.51    1.4 1.
10.10101  l00IIIUi*L H 01833*1011991161 t.lUC"tlA                                                                               16116    3        * ii3* iio.vI  sn14.63 xIle #Ote.m
CIlCIlIUNI. 14. 016*1  COIltC^tS ii;;ii;ii;;; ioi.i*oi,i
SWTta-wM    PRCUCAt                                                                                                     Cs ......                                                ...... ...;j jjj;;jj_  eX;j; U§     i  4; .....
2601A0U1                                        t               c s0        m    1 O AR9                               .      g741    10.400,*  11p9.00          31.$        31.104      40.U1      1.40.
4460161   -------1                         Yenf                              a 0 10 1  a    a     a       le           .       te         013        1.3           .          U.5H7    I0.1t I         43,6M
S. 6864043 60180lu 461*6.0,                                                                                                                                                                               24
UUImMI*                                   nno .a                                    a        a                                            *.          6.6S.3                    .1          .13         4.4
10-10181 648*04? 60180 *906                                                                                  2.9*        6,168                   6,111                    84.30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,2  t  Is  111  N
9133     vAIl/vt               3      6     9      6      10    10        40          .         S         1,011       0.044       1,106      1.301        3.3W         6.4k~~~~~~~~1.4  17 17  lo  is  19  IOOn  it
30,-Total Sf1605. "MI. op10"?. COS1S                                                                                   ....    110,01...  ......01.1.16                            4933         3.06 604.6
T0ta1 SOWmillI on'l                                                                                                                     40,13         m         SOtM      1.641.1608  36041.1061  1.13.314   1.614.644
Total..................................
"3.46   341.    1.06.11   3,10.41   .40.31   1,1                 .9*    .61      3,910
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........   ...
Stab 31. 1..........8...........................1.......1...................



944969  ?9919o4940                                          ~~~~~~paop  I of 2
9                *t tttttIN0  "mavi * to W ACS laws
9 91411964941 40891~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ikill                                        GT810 oo  bl                                 oel na 4 ltI olmemf
gm9 046,061, 689066                       to                  9     9      3     9                   8                  141.440    0129041     to98        10,109                            49490
9490196 101999061                          6            : 40  4     4                                             *   800,GO no   me010    91,1 IS.0A.4I8So
904IN0 9181961 9440916$%                  nvt56l                    4      8                                            09,148      OS .894     134"                                          is49.8
I410.0o9   1409 MALIN9 PaCILlIic                                                                             .......8163                            ....49    9.......  .....  .      ......,64
1  1996l99904o                                 10%                                               '                           6.90      1.81        1,4         9,6             *.                90,
SW-latel CIVIL vanl                                                                                                     *     42,071    407,1491   1041.40       9,1                               .9.
Oil 6900IN                                   t1t               19    2    31    39 82          19 8.90*                     4441       1191       96490       9904        011        9,9          411.14
I"9 048  99996 MA0GI40   1 0 ; Con    is; 60 0  ,10C                                                                         804        94s1       14,31      9.4          681       9,1           I 61.8
I0   6096   C991I94a                                                             I Its,944                                              4,44 I  I4                 .          .           .      99.0S
Gm99  60, Wm 90 O                            40646              0      40    to    so       00 60       6l68,99                        S164       61.44       816          14,41       H          4,
lftiL Il 411W11                             04018                      "0    90     0      *80I.    60.0                                          6909        8162..                              1.
6946444006                                   tvA*t              so    to    to    Is    96    69       140           .      019        42.026     61,36        4.41      40.8to      46.09      891.91 J
06644189I0499919   6IQ40                    p16k96              to    H      49     690                              *      9.91061    91,616    914,102      40.991                            a0,811l
660.69J6.0l99091, .116           0106DM               4     4                                9                  41,803    84,04 9,16.81 sea8
MONA?180  06911 T 6018 HOP6910                                          4     4                         9                   4,2        9093ea11                                                  46.8
009196 614196460                               69                   4      4        4     4            43                   4.4         409        0.40        0.040      081          .0         96
9419IC9C*119                                                    9      I I  mII                         4           *      8,89                     No93 8.   4,084                             93.716
"Im.,t IOC096.9.6910                           Wm               I46                                                       949,90            *                                                    94.
"SALIM96911949916060996 UNIT9                                                 9     9                        S,94                        .09W      N,96        9,9 0.                             4,49,
C. !T!T161
6169 a66Wm 44941011                         040009              10      I                                                              J .3  884.                                                  .4
Time', 9088011*6                            1119081        *    9.9,a9,09                                                              9891                                                      8,4
110099 9....                                                              .       .      .            ,          .                      . 
4.964,L060.461401 0009IGO69 .                              .       .       .       .        .       .       . .St  .0    to                                    *           ..
49694*61                                  tllt'              90    9       0    90go4so                                    IS!94  377,949    414.689     3190.                              .1.
964109 698.  61. 4-W4,86 ane                        *                            r*                                                 .          .    01.040S'. 41,0
8. 09464 0*609  941. .   .     .      .      .      .      . .             .    61.418       46.810     44.4*0      41MG            .           -     960,049~~~~........ :.......  ......
SW-lt I E L 069 661                                                                                                   .   97U.:9l1    411.S"40        61619   44490 "I                      1. 80  46,
9. 9804640 L466699 114819W  *998. . .   .      .      .     .      . 9         6.863                    -~~~~~~~~~~~..     . .... ..  ....... .......     6..
4090661. !6*96199T99.s20                  96809                         .     ..                      969                                                                                      .9
091069:100  461168.689                   6469T-               .     8      8     8     8     1       9                               .3         .9        6.680       4.034      4.*Workhop89.19?
la.09 16 469990work661.                                                                                                   4.89      8309        60;         "6.8;       9.034     9008 1"4.401
8. 1181101 1 496 61.0nshpo
990T61161TRAININ D9P                                            9           9      9           9          N96                           84        M           94         02          48        6.7
991694116 L.1V8, 4409)                  whom619             8     91    96    96     4      4      44689                          6.1         .69        4 4          a,n0      9.89       99.489
0P  11H668 L6983 (68198woksho                                Is         9, I   919 S                                                 944         M          948          0          *          .
69, 8461090*1, 6409  5596699*         9     9     9      9     9       I                               619        946         671        606         040       4.889~~~~0   a   s  4.N  G" 1,90  I'
961/004  I998199603698 *                                    4     4     4      4     4     4       8 IN)06                      1S"4         141164    4907o8.                44.96       84.3
Pta, Mo4 I ld/A ")9wor                                       90   so                   9              0                 a.8                     .9                     . . I.4
co41  9.6100   93                         0689                             4     4     4                                           " 9 * 01  ,4 " .099    6,39       ":,4"      '.0a         40,089
994:79111  43                           0069               6      8     4                  3      49                 9 i.489       1 9,49948.848        1,1        8.9         S.1        9891:
9944/404, 90609610IC9    640/0'        *     9     9      9     9     9             6        ~       ~ Is49        .63       606         4.6460     0.014        .*        810.40
96806913499 0060997*0104   08966890      9:     I            9                                             1491        664         MGt        al,99  44 I,01 SAO                 9v"
an: 4/480. TO  42V/1(00116809            v.610                6     6     6      0    9      0       4                   .6         .634.4                9,4         804       9860        6.
PM,/10 N  1g6  70d)                      609rh69             lo90    96    60    60    60    80     Ito                  ,09       0.8        98,19        .06       9,099la.400              64,8
9990/400.  C lad689)9919                                  90 90 96            6     8     0      089P                  91.4     89            148.1    4In6       67,092                  as14 81.
994/80  0860,96149.199 1199860         1969**                                  4                    90                                       .111      4.9049     3,8        8607?9940"
40.00909 8166V846 1*8911990                                                                            *     609,490    91.13'    88.4          6,60      8719        69.8        .8.4
U4V/94068493/066(90899009       505960*           80   Is       0                         9                   .10       0,04        0.40        .16        6069       4.89         6.9
796683                              194         .     9      9    60    6      0     40     96           *      6.0I,4                 4.744      90400      94,341      a6t,       a6.04:
0946690                                   4199h49       *     ? 90 00   s00   90    90    90        64                    go!.64  80,*            Os86      go.t    6091        19844           Ole04
0ll,I4*179497996961809 IV)W                             *     8     7      1                  *      $6         .       .49          4.10     661           lo          #          got         an
46-01   9.Loc. 67*088.                                                                                              4.4 6I9                4081!                                          U.61 6.0  6,4  9,8
6. O       TB916160/099                                                                  9     9                  *     91m 0.61    099        8,99       8.*         4.         4.4          1,4
so-To89,,as*  004801908                                                                                         6,891N   896,109   607,663    611,790    894,16         119.041   861.088   I.909.884



MOL'fhPss31
Kiel0IU        t     1
......   ...  A 6.    .       . A ....                           *400. 0 A                 goof4*4*4  .4440400 4444644404 444440000 44946404646 *4*00404040
0. P089*07, Dei LOIUNG  .
3. PO0I0Y POVLOHICYIggOT  ITA IA
PEIATb4  O 0flh IICIOAICO SSTNCII"06*                                                                          3,0            7       416,846    434416      03.643     44.366      44,60      me,6la
PRCC'JCIOH AUDI00.Y1I/903T05/11TC.             A.M.                                                                        6.40;      6,4S.4                  .25        606.                   0,
SCHOOL T0AC446 S40                                              035   Ili   IS;   Ili  415   436       640                 1,6         7N,43      7.644       7.6         .6        646         6,7
MAL*T" 603303                                 d.7          .   00   t70   40   Goo   600  6so   0.41                *      4,631       4,144    143.467     6336        84468:2        36062    6.
S,4-Total HEIALTH I O0CAICaOOO                                                                                                746        4.6         573        8,;         660       6.6          6.4
I   WI. T043 N40    COSTS
A. UALARIOS 6  LL, OO
P06*4,4N F4YICA41*74                                         4,    6    48,   481   03,  II         60          .      7.0        4.444      13.104     0373        6.          4,636      04.60
F44YIIClANI SY1OC ALOITS                 **.7          .     4     6                  6     6       44          .     14.30       M663                  so41  3,30  34.414                 el. oi6l04
663103                        *.2567~~~~~~~~~~~~~::a  -    4  34    70    as1430   030  464                2 0.41'    40.636      as64      40.46       4046        7746       60.I
4.A01 H4410,71 VISITORS.o*                                  60    s0    so   4t0   40   430        64.          .     3634   1, 06           4.4        6.66       4042       41.06        0736
OOIALf"TOOYC4SICIA4S                     576                 6    34     3      3    6      0      633l                   No10   3:,434      42 .61'     466         360        6  3       M6,165
loA.E  AL.OANOO4.Y                                           4           40   40      I      0       6          .      430         .06         .47        ,47         ,44       6,67?       4.6
90300417  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          4     0      4     4     4     4       6                  5.335      6,406      5.635       6.485      6,300       6.031      33,674~~~~~~~0"  ::40  .Sn" U ,  .'s
SWT*Ttal OIIALTH IA 103410  STAFF                                                                                                  ;;4646  3.410    ;3.44  4,0;?    64.66         3.466   3.106.040
3. O4IALTO4 900ATI0*78A 1FF
441p06   7F                               .07                                                       1                   ,6         .0         6.164      6.663       a,l43      7.464      $66,073
76640g. A4406440003                      s/.           .     4      4                                64004                                    4,033      4,0613     I0,03       4,4616      0,36
Pi4i00063                                A-/y.         .                        a     a     a                                       am36  ,3  3,047      0,to?       I.I6       6.7        0.6
Sub*T0lal 460AL7H EDUCATION STAOFF                                                                                       4,337    4l,a4         36,7*5     36,443      3044       3.48         456
140-Qotal U4A*30  6* ALLOVAN1003                                                                                           464.433    844.580    II6,633El   440.0t06    646.7I3    60.467   28".3566
6. £OOOIZ40OAL 068*0 6840 53604003~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1H)  11 Cs10  o  n f  i                                                               40111   MG
6am0                                        #807                0   4600   NO    M6   300   410   0.400            *    66.60       70,066    00.461         1.6       631       3064           5.4
WAUAL HIALITI 001016R                       rA40               40    6      40   60      5    65      340                                           'I.7  3.6  4.3  3.8366    60.ST  74.45    660.06
TONSIL HOSPITALS                           or. '          .     4     a    Is    of   so    33         go                IO0.66"    40,36       63,440     66M3       440,36     430.141,1    440.63
840-10461 AOOIYIOO0L 0380  AM4 SUPPLIOS                                                                                     so.;;;    466.674l    MY7.4      36M.1446    36.36      446. 60   4.476.34
C. I0464T   14  467   Ol
Sub-Total OOALIN I.370441                                                                                                                                  I  654  6  7   44.66 46.074    412.6146  467.463
3. WATotlH A10 410   ATIN 1*40
S   00b5704104 06110dNI  V04JyH.                                       6     6           6     6        5          .          .       7,40      060S4,64S4,34                      0.36       6663
336.73464 HEALTH 4313*71044                                                      .                 47,440~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ... ,7...  ... 4 330.3404      00.4
3807364163044. 044 OAOT.0313.                                                                                                            34,ST7      54,307    41.6"16  444.84    04.730           51i64
70Total    107  OT                                                                                                         . 3434           3.3        6604 73    6366; 741164403.3                  ,4,7
705*0                                                                            066.006  3.364.167  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.70.1   3.4.......  3.060...0 .........  4.70..4..6. ..06,
66745 37...........................................4360.                                                            ............................................



ff11HEALtH PEOCS
tale 2. HEALtH 11651040 EVoI 02650"
Deteailed cost table
A. VCI IL 5661    II                   mm                                                                        :0    1 i    T"!6   T
1011116 906 TIHOIL 1091111.5  5~~~~~~~~~~~~ffi.  -    .   .    -    .    g    ee.....l 6,....206..-... 1.....
SW6-Totel PATh HEALTH PACILI1IES                                                                               so01,23  102,016   41.65        -            29::7?*
2. 6OE6VISIOH  61.-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     ~~~~       ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.60    0.001  664  -    0.6
SS-1tOld CIVIL VOES                                                                                           -  0.1    0.20 tlS                  -       - 50.113
Om6CP KITS                            ma3:0a                       a    a     so 6        6             .4      1.61a02  1a6      3.71       1,31   .61    1296
ISA 11*04116 EOWP"ONN7               peoA"                    5     40  S?   -?  a?                      66         0      44                          t-o.4
T"t Liu""G KItS                      Poak*O            60   so   so0    s 00   0   60  460        -      a66      302      02      345      ett   1,015        .4
U1e0 sa  ctoNH m                     pategs            20s  to   so   so   to   t0   460               0.620    s.o4   0.1"SO   0.060    6.005   6. 0        2026
41345SuIE         .             pectas        -    -     1     9     *     -           S01002    5.415                           -        -               5.2
ml  SCP0met                                       -    I'   01:   la19    92   42   ta                91.66    13.102   13.0    14. 172   M4.62   10.220      USeG
OEEA?p 111. '09                soew        -                2,  2,N.91                                                                          -      0.91Z
OTHER SOVIPHENI                       o/e         -                                        S           I.644    '.662    9.1211       -                      '0.1
01110 use 19s ULIRASOLI60             mast        -           0     5           -     -                        22.0    600-                            -      060
IMALtH TEEUCATIUOP                                                                         4               -3   2.2S6   -000          -                         S.ao
00*-TOt4l 6001251W?                                                        -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20,024  63.305     203.2    271.44   26.103  ft.166O   420.222
TINS HOINIIS                         pehn         -           I                                   -               12        20      243-GAS02
645-10164 FUBRNITURE                                                                                 .    .124    3.060       12        *                         .594
0. VEI4CS
SVCIlS                            mas               1040    0                          6                 4.165 5.4    4.640                                1 44161
OsES                             mat              90    40-      -     -     -          -     -156a"   to16 ISO-                                        220an
AMCS                          mOt          -    2     9I                                        440    714 3.6    2 .645            ...  ....   .6.. 664
SO-Total HEALTH 5655t41 VEHICLES                                                                      ` 6.71    66.16    42.432  I050                        22004
6. SF161I PASTS                        40o-x547                                                                 5.5      424      2.66        -               2654
S. Total VSIOICOES                                                                                      1 04.667  64.661  41.'70   43.446         .            260.465S
PHI/COO: PARA10                     54-OIC-                                                                                                          - 
lSu-Total INSI5VICS TRAINOING
S. P6E9-1slVIoE 19A110110
011419                   1454~~~~~~~~wA/yrI       4           4     4     9    6       -  37.330  37.529   30.710I  39.60"  _41.333 4.           22046
So*4@tel PAESI5VICE 10*1101KB                                            -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31. 32    37.526  20.719   20.6661  44.223  42.942    220.464l
Sub-Total LOCAL T5AINIIOB                                                                                31.336  3`7.329   '010   2..666   41.22    4.22       22.6
22.la 6EC46510    COSTS                                                                                                                                 1,2    .7.
4. HECATHNOVCS STF
PHYSICIAN   IAS                    veI                    21  23    3    3                     - 49"175    3.603    3.64      566      0.0      .3       20.64
PHYSSICIAN SP6CIALISIS           a-year       -     4           2       2 2I                       3.560    7.20 1.260 TA     1.664    7.666    0.4117    40l.103
AimS                             eyear        -                0    4      0    20   14       - 350         121 4.6           360 2.2          722       6.1
LAO? HiALIN VISITORS              .Vt         -    90    4    s0   go   so   20 15            - 9.2         601    24.660   26.26266.22    2.662     93.91
HEALTH TICI6ICgIS                o*y6r        -           3    5     I    40   00   3              2.241    3.600    6.940O   6.645   42.494   423.626n    47.6"6
O5204130                         a-VWe                    a        5       5          24      -    4775   9.60       4.600    4740    4.O6     0.9        22.6O6
166151. ALLEWAICES                 sul        -  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   4 .1          -404                    .02     4.06     9.00     4.90      020
P560604                           s4          -02 0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   1.ODI06                          .5      4.30  9. 41    4.6         4.31      6.
SoS-Total HEALTH SEIVICIS STAFF                                                                         _76.1    47la1620 1.35    22.432  66.020    405.0461
oSu-Totld SALARIES A ALLOWANES                                                                          2661 4.2          6.20      064 5.43         602      45.6
B. AEDITIU0AL 061905 A2BS. EU7PP0   0.441L1SS8 40.0
am"                                 met          -    4  0        40   60    to     010           -    .3      0 4   20.7113  26.691   26.600   45626    946.660
sNAI. 6601.11 CONIS                 ms                 2   24    6    68   10  410  2400          -    9.60d   04.061   .24      6.1    11.020   44.4146    4.210
Stb-Total AOOITIONAL DALUS AND 1991261S                                                                  11.013   00.271   22.005   45.162  60.657  G66.127    230.039
npgm                            VAI/ve       -          10  420      -    -    -  420         -            2.004   61.054        -                       66.062
ANIU4AIUES                       v609/r       -     -     2    S    2      1    2                            .0      063 1.17 1.6               206      6.0
605-lotel HEALTH SORVICES-                                                                                - 590    762 9.57 4.6                    2.2       4.6
St-Total INCS6IUN. VIEH. OPERtAT. COSTS                                                                         -6.420   51.642   99.401?  44.56   12.026    149.664
,ot otl*BCIREI  COSTS                                                                                   -40.660   75.541 1916.2339  066.602  164.615  17.6152    166.660
Toutl                                                                                                    -  9266       24.6 5 62.16   201.511  23.1   24.644  19.66741



- 1OS 
ICSLvleLIN Pgg.tQT
Ost4e led Cost Tfll
Totals IRRIUSI Ccitt goq-eles
Unit~~~~~~~~t
Unit..   el/Ba ../02 .../U  ../fl ..... ../.. ST/u. Total   Ot/s2      2/N2     6/U4      4/101    flf       66      91/940   Total
I. INVEITRENT COSTS
JAMSHORO: IRJRSING COLLEOR                          -     '. -I.   ....
14*-Total REN40VATlOfS £ND EOTENSIENS                                                                 ....                                   ...... - . ....   ......1
2. SUPRRVISIEH                              IS...                                                                                          . 4.1.                           4.1I
SU*-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                    .......................    ..  .!
.EUIPET0.1                                                                                                                       .                  -        -       .     99060t
JIAMSCI  941111N0 COLLEGE                 packag                                            .-                          -4.1               -        .        .       -     4.1
C   _FRITRa                                                                                                               40.110                                          4.1
440I1H000 NURSING COLLEGE                 psakage      -      -     I     -     --                 I         -11.06?                                                         1.6
l.-Total0 FURNITURE                                                                                               .....        1 .......  ....   ....   ......6
0. VEHICLIS
J)ARSHIRO 94151IN0 COLLEGE-MINIRUS     MO",*                                                                  ~      -                                                  a  0
44*-TOtal LOCATION AND TYPE                                                                             8100                                                                `S  - -00 0
2. SPARE PARTS                              to-.60-                                                                                                 -                        .1
14*-TOIRI iVEHICLEIS                                                                                       41.1             .        -        -                 -       -        toi
6.0EUCATON MIATEIL
JIAIISHICO WROING COLLEGE                   4.                -     I     -     -                            -          -6311              -                               6.41
14*1-Total EOUECATION MATERIALS                                                                                             -6.4                                                34
F. TECPICALASSSTNC
NURlING EDUCATIONI                       -f             t1-              -     -     -        2                 0t.,o3         -                 -        -       -       1.9a
COPYRIONT 6 TRANSLATION                U.S/yr                    I     I     I     -     -                -          - 1256         3.7     144           -       -     441
14*-Total  PROJECT 5WPPORT FOREIGN V.A.                                                                      -     01.330   13.6160 4.1115  14.141           -        -    243.065
3. CAPACITY _IIILOINGI LOCAL T A
IN-SERVICE TRAINING                      -               I      I2    5      4     2     .    36          -     42.300   42.045   21.940   15.060    1.611         -    130.04
IN'STITUTIZONAL SUPPORT                et/r         I     2     I      I     -           -     5    100.08;    960-01  116.162  t1.86                     -        -    1330
14*-Total CAPACITY WIILDING LOCAL T.A.                                                                  10......  .1..                        ..1...11102? 5..6 1......  -......
S.*-Total TECIBICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                            10.01      41.2    12.246  IUOl0s   26.001    1.8411                 4.
0. TRAINING 
110: LEARNIFNG coOROENATORS                 -               3     30    30    30    90          ISO6         -     163.12   165.113  1441.118  114,603  161.030       -      4.016
Tao: MONITORING a SUPFERVISION              -          -    30    30    30    30    30      -   to           -       63.6     160.113    j Tit11   114.21603          - 8465
TRO: IN-SERVICE MANAOEMONT 0EV.            M-          -     3     t13         1     1            0          -     4.10SW.4    6.0    4.4    12.40                    -    3041's1
"4-Total TRAINING                                                                                               ----41-0-63--0141.0141.-1                                 - 2-.0-51-.-4-0
.1. OVERSEAS TRAINING
PISLI1C _HE1AL'TH                           -               3 4    34    13                       0          -      40.055   61.51!   41.562        -         -              10.1t
EPIOEMIOLIoT                                              -           -           -     - -                       !40.026                                                   460.03
OTHER                                       -                52          12                      24                  002               156.                            -    8.0
51*-Total OVERSEAS TRAINING                                                                                      -     6.1       1.5723 21                -----                234.900
Total INVESTM4ENT COSTS                                                                                       11.      I .114.105  mm161   6441.501 446.246  443.216        -  2.603636
A. TEACHINO MATERIALS £10 SUPPLIES
MMSING COLLEGE                             Ia                                              g                -        .400    2.429    3,491    2.6631   2,651   2.160      11.3H0
EXISTING SCHEOLS                           ma         -      I     I                                                 .0       .1        .4       .6       ,2      .0         .5
Slob-Totla TEACHING MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES                                                                             l .601    3.660    2.121    2.644    2.905   4.10      *3.666
R. ENSUESI. ROIl. OPEl. COSTS
RUSES                                    vatYr        3     B    i4   i6   1s   so   Is    GI           1.6         606 6.1           201 6.0            0310.4            6.1
SIC-Total ENCRSE. VOH. OPEL. COSTS                                                                         12.944     26.641   63.612   12.00     626 6.010.4                 6.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                          .2......46           1.63   6.......            0.650.R6          45.2
Total                                                                                                          t0.6    .....6.. 65.44.         2.0    3.6    55640.0    .3.
March 27. 1001 10:10



voSle S. STAFF OIV6LOPNIO
SUIH.RRS?l *Wb7ll PROVIMU
oSbuSi coot7l3
I. INVRSTRONT COIST
PARAMIO INST 1*100U (RgNeY                                                                               IT: *I . n,e                                    *      uno
ROHAT  N     OWOATR                  SUM        -                                         Ise.0.8
KCHAT: N 5. 141161. (4051            gum                                                  I143.8                       * "                                    J 11.I
NARRAN: NI. REWOVATION     ~~~~~sum          I                                   I        -       :",5                                                 0, " I
MAROAN: HRI. CLASSROOMSI3 )                                                               I              SiE                                                    1.283
MAROAN: NO.1. 141101. (609l          sma1                                                 I        *   05,13                                                  S         R.EEM
CIRHAN1; KS.1 RONOVATIRN4            sum             I11                                                  0.T:         .        .        .I.             .      08Z
0I64N: N4.   LASSROOI6OS(3       :,.m       I*                                                        *'29"33.                        .       .       .     s
DIR.1HANl: NO6. NORTEL  102          sme                                                                6iee5..                          .          
(CHAT: HG'J1IN4-9RINCIPALS(4)       e~flula                                                                                                                   1  40510    ,24      .WSlt
SKINT: HOeJ$INO-TUTORS (SI                            A     4                             5        .    ee4.136  110.44         .                .       .     30QfOa
K0140T: HOUJSING-INRTQ.LHVI1 (131   'sfeer            4     4     5                      la              so6.023   s0o3    44,391        .                    140,100
OAIR#J: 11-5. CLASSOMI2I.D6POT.     605.                                      .                                                    121.0         .       .    121,40
SAIOU: NS.' NOSTEL (4011             ste.Il .I                                            T ,fi,9490                                             .       .    esowo
2. A0PORVISIOR4                         05..*1.g5    eI,649    3.244   14.064                                                                               -     Go.04
Ret)-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                                                   . ,0.73244.4 a             102602                         ,9.4
P AAROG.INST.: 50A01U                   St...                                                1               559                            .38 52
K=T40  NURSING SCHOOL                   SUM                               3. gs                                                                                   221,563
MAROAN NURSING6 SCHOOL                  11Y.       -     I.                                                 22.103        .                                 -     2.15,,3
0.I.KKAN NRSINGOSCHOOL                  ama.e3:eO                                                                                                                  a       13
5*10(1 MISSIle 00001.  ma.e                                                ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~....... ..... ..... .......  ....  -... ........
Sub-Total OOUIPUNT                                                                                       -     7187                       20.611       .       .      lQe
C. PUONTUR
PARAM00.IN$.110StSr.                                                                .        I                ,8 .                                          -      5, 44
KOHATN NURSING SCHOOL                   eta                    I                             I               6 .14    002.;                 .       -       .         33
MASOAN 16555  0*0kNa-                                             SCHOOL                                               ,gaa        .                        -      0533
.IMKHAN tRSIKa 501403.                  Suae       -           I                                                 .      033        .                        -      0033
50100 NUISSINS SCHOOL.                   maeI                                                                                            .01        .         
Sub-Total FURNIIORO                                                                                             0,445   e41Co00            6.017       .       -     27.005
0. VEHICLES
WOOINU 5ARA001. RIJSST bs           I"Ier       2                 -4 7.200-   "29.7    40.40 AS.                                                              1ISO6
5fl. 53*i VINICLES                                                                               7620       1.42    40,46..  ..... .... ---- ....                  66,016
2. S'PARE PARST                         lox.1.620                                                            162      400          .        .       .        .     1.0
Sub-ToRal VEHICLES                                                                                  03.020     07.366   44.496                                      21  - f5,6112
E. itCIICIASITR6
I. CAPACITY RUILIN  P001041.0
IN-SERVICE TRAINING                                  ise   e2   IS                       Is               0.2    0.14244                                       1.2
Stb-TotaI CAPACITY BUILDINKG FOREIGN T.A.                                                                  20.020,4 20.40120
eSu-ToRal TECHNIICAL ASS101*A46                                                                               201.280  200,.044  20S.B46                            Gt-01.220
COPTRIGHT Ale TRANSLATION              Sum/..        .     . I       I    I      .     .     3                    . 1.00        124 1160                     -    3.0
LOCAL PROOUCTION                       se.r        .     e     I     I     I     .     .     4        .      183 2.I 269 3838                       -I8.4
OVERASEAS PROECT2ON                    ma/yr             e     I  0.6   0.5      .                            110    l20       073        09.                     3.1441
Sub-TotaI (OUCATION NATERIALS329                                                                                        4nI
TOtal INVESTROIIT COSTS                                                      63~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~.020. 1.........  553.. 1,.73.28.  ....   264074
Tota SNECITRRNT COSTS7
A.NTEACHINGS MAERAS   SIPL
(RIOTING SCHOOLS                      AMa                              I, 1     0     I1                     O's06    1.T0    1.12    ets    eae 12                .5
Sub-total TEACHING MATERIALSA SUPPLIES                                                                         2.102    2,217    2.205    2.3410  2.410   2.6a0     e2.915
S3. INCREMENTAL VON. OP. COSTS
$0100 PARAROO.IKST.(OU.)              v"l/ r      I                                               .0         .6       ,1      2,88     8.64   2.150   2.6 O"       9la21i
NISSING S0H01.5 (bums,)               sayr        3    3      4    4      4    4    A    25    A4.0         7.86 10 160   10.4   10,04  1108    e462             65.M
Sua-Total INCRIMONTAL VON. OP. COSTS                                                                7.0         .60 i.6          2,880   1.1 3. 793i :    14.328    64,21
Tolee RICURRENT COSTS                                                                                   7 a0     317 14oO 1.2    iA.67  1.20   eceS7    8.163
Total                                                                                                  ';;0;2  1.463,883  570.270;  382.047  381.88   1.20  16.637  .604.267
MAt's 27, eel  10:60 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ..........   .... .............. ....   .....



PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table 6. STAFF DEVELOPMENT
F.A.T.A.
Detailed Cost Table
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity                                                (USS)
…________________________________ ___
Unit  91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 Total  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98 Total
= = = = = =   S   ===    =====  e=     ====    a===    =====       =====  ===
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TRAINING
t. OVERSEAS TRAINING
PUBLIC HEALTH         -         -    6                  - 6   6     -    18       - 20.014      - 20.781       -  22.059     - 62.854
Sub-Total OVERSEAS TRAINING                                                          - 20.014       - 20.781      - 22.059      - 62.854
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                      -  20.014      - 20.781      - 22.059      - 62.854
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                        20.014         20.781        22.059        62.854
Total                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~- 20.014  - 20.78t  - 22.059     - 62.854         
Total========================   ===
-20.014     -20.78t           22.059     -62.8540
=========  =C=C= C======  ===CC =======  ======                  _*
Narch 27. 1991  15:50
a x
o
X. 



- 108 
FAMILY IOaLIN 900.JICT
10010 T. OWA0NOIUIT OIVELIOTmm
hiaelted 0009 Toble
A.CII005
PIll KARACHI                                    .I                                                        1.4                                                                      04
MEAD004  PRaV IDC (91001                   I00s                                                    S                410                       -         .        -        -         lea11
OIVISIOaN HEOAUAOT9 1on1                                         3    2                                              14.312    I11.042           .        - 22-                   21.30
DISTRICT II0gQ".IJATES                         s.               4     4                             t4- o 1    .     2.140      22.000     32.071   2.2            -        -         "00.2
0100: KEALTM OgVgL0IOIET ClOThO              000009       -     I     0     3     -            -    10         - 4.71   1,2363.022    01.2304            -                      .1 6.030
01CC: GECTER 101lgl           1500           10s                                                    Is              1229        2.00       0.072                                 403.490
atm    P nsAuigOC HitOh                       Boost            10   10      5           .           2               10.24    247.240       04.70?-47.0
0.6b-T0101 00IIOVATIOkS AMO IXTEOSIMS                                                                        101.34?  1.2911.9Th1,007        74.0       336                        ,7.2
2. SwIEOVIS am0%                                                                                               01        4.4       04.0 so       00     119                          0.0
SUb-lotsl CIVIL VMS0                                                                                            19.2014  I.:3062,10  '.0,0       3.42 3.0                            4.I71.flO,
Fl U 02040                                       tO .               .            ..                     I    20.0082         .                     -         -                       3:08G2
010104040 FROVt OE.CTO.IPMCCI                     Itla       -.so*.4a                                                                   .          .                                 0.43
DiGIONRC  20.00  1,01PeROS                                         -     0                  -          I*               N         11.10       00,7,02;.                              0.0
SYb-Total 000190007                                                                                             30.002    411.073    203.027    203.003  141.720                        0.1
C. P0nITIJOC
10I00ll0 FROGV. GIV.CTO.(I9ICI                     u                                  I'.. .  .     .I                  29.709          .          -        -                        231.79
DIVISION HAO AIIQ                                 3YN3                         -     -      -                            01.172     0.0:33                  -                         3. 700
CIST ICT HIACQUARTERS                                        4           -     -    1          .                 1.7        1.307   1.34           .              34 000
ISTRC   0.70   0I at.g                                                        5     3     -           1          .                 3.000    in0.4    03.30                         a  7.4
SIS-lTOIS  FIJ5OIT40E                                                                                            0.200     29.943    00.6000   144.000   03.007ol                      340.700
0. WH ICLE
9. LOCATION AND2 TYPE
Flu KARACHII - 510493                       Ftle          I     I ~  I                              G     213        1.0                                      01                  20.013
Fl U KAO4CIII,4-0..ICITY TIFES              VImat,.        .            .     .           .      .                                                                                ' 210    - . .  2
0120040A  0A C PO.50DA404                    XHoOr        I-             -    -           -     -         12. 102    12.700                                                       24.000
HYDOEOA4  F :4-9.D.ltCAVY OUT111             -bdl                 I....                                              47,00           -          -        -         .        -     47.00
1000: 'SPI:FROV. LEVEL 144. 10401 COUTV      V0)                I                       I           3         -     4.0                                       at                  cn
700SFN9-01ST  10V11 Idod CITY TYFES       Aer                      4           4t                          -      0.0213     01.777     52.71B   04.102        -        -    209.077
DISTOI CT HIOALtII 01.00C. -VANISO                        2     4     0     A                       15   40.040      04.790    I120.443    07.0          .                        404
tab-Total LOCATION 41ND TYPE.3                                                                                          0004      10.3       140.:740   04.102   00.04         -   016.433
2. SF401 0407$                                   10%-4.0                                                                30.000     16.122     94.074    0.410    0.0 -6                 61 042
S.S-TotOl VEHICLES                                                                                              7100      2003    100.341    904.04   00.0         73.22          -   0.070
1. 5011T*7100 RT RIALS
012TR2CT 007.070. (OweC)                          H-         -                       6     3      -    lo         .                           3.4    01.202       1.020        -    102.320
0'sb-Total 0011CATI0N MATERIALS                                                                                      -3  1.142   01.250   10.020                                       10.3.20
F. lEaICA   0ISAC
IODSU30PO00                                  s.cyr        -           I     I     I                 0           -     0307       0.407      0.0510    0.0 Be     4       .74      2.0
tab-Total  P004g07 24PP007 F0R1I00 T.A.                                                                           -      5.307      6.407      0.010    0.00     0.04     0.074      3.4
tab-Total TECNI ICL ASSISTANICE                                                                                              .0        0.4-0-7    0.010    0.000    0.649    0.074      33.004
HEOALTH ECONOMICS                                 -          -    12     0     -    -             -    o                40.03B     30.303          .                           .     00421
HOSFITAL R45ASA009NT                              -                2    20   24    12                  SE 7       -      00 02   1.073        03.130   42.000         -             24 S.0
HEOALTHI 23001002 04410000T                       -                0     5                             l    a     -...0 ?14        3023       2.70           -                        9.
tab-Total OVERtSEAS FELLOWSHIPS                                                                                      -    100.000    123.300   _000        2.40                        300.000
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                            13.2    .0.0    .3.3    .4611.7943021 0.0                       .740.07.0
it. OECIJROEIT COTS
A. IICAOOOOAL FP9RSON1EL
I. SALARE  32ALWNE
"I0  LVEL STAFF                             -Ya-T.            20   20   30    30    30    30  ;70             -     30.0                                                 No04 0.5  030  000 7.3  333.042
010 LEVEL STAFF             a-yar        -   ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~20   30   40    40   400 0 30 -     22.007      30.034     4091   20.003   02.400   04.003      20,4
MIDNLe T STAFF                            Zs- SPOT    FY.,r  - 20    30   40    20    00    20   240          -     14. 702    22.029     20.0009  30.002   40.098   42.0 5 1007
DRIVERS                                    a-e.                     10   30    20    30    30   I25                  S.00       7.00      10.2    3270        4.0    1.40       10.0
tab-Total SALARIES AND2 ALLOWANICES                                                                              -     77.000    102.000    920.43?  120.131f 100.070  104.160,   099.250
2. TRAVEL EXPEND2ITURES
INTERNAL ;R,AVOL L----I                                                          I                                   2t0         .02       22        :.217    .0        .40      9.4
FEE 01002                     sic              t     I     I      I     I     1    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  -  BE0    2.202      2."     2 2.317    2.404    2.0       9304
S.c-Total TRAVEL EXFEND2ITURES                                                                             12...420                 .0        4.00   4.030        .000    4.!!0    194.409
taSU-Total IOCRIENIOTAL FERSONNEL                                                                             129.700     09.007    100.009    104.030  104.700  101.603  100.104  1.040.000
SDAN                                          o.tly        2     4     4     4     4     0     01   28      4.1        000       1.00        024 1004 9793   14.226                74.060
4-bWL.D0IYE                                    Vl/r         -    7     I     tO     o    20     0    52          -    24.40        0.0       09    70.040    723 0.3                s.o
BUSES                                          ToIl/PP      3     6    14   la   to   10   16   07    12.00            301.0406    03.073S    63.001   00.30    Is. 309 0.4         0.
tab-Total 140900. YEIN. OPER. COSTS          .17.700                                                                      70. 302    113.222    940.729  107T.001  180.418  t97.4I2    000.130
C. PR04C01 OAN   UMCT
SALAaIE.H/L STAFF                             a-yea         4           0     4     4:,I2I.00                           7.         7.249      7.400    7.0190   7.0    9.306        00.390
SALARIES SPOT STOOP                           V-..e        04     5                                   2    2  0::'70    7.126      7.240      7.400    7.010    7.000    ao0s       02.200
TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                                 I                                       1      I    7      4.774      4.000      5.03       0.143   0.201    0.40 1..0            26.303
TECHNIICAL ASSISTANCE                          s/y.         I     t     I     I     I      S    1    7    90.000       10.021     20.920     20.571    1.104     S 9.42   22700    140.037
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS                        Toll/p       2     2     2     2     2     2     2    tS      0.00       0.037      7.047      1.200    7.407    7.0G0    7.070      so0Real
OF FICE OFEDATINO costs                          I'               t           S      I     S    I    7       0.7'20     0.046      60.00      9.171    0.340    0.002     0.30      42.000
VIYEW EVALAASON 0 4AUDI7                      s./y         -     I     t     2     I      I     I    7          -     0.0        0.371    U1.12       0.01   00340         I"00   404.209
sEO"TAL OFFIE                                  Z.cY,        I     t     t     I      I     I     I    7        50          9 C     1.00        I.=3      .0       .        ,4         .7
laO-TotAl PROGICT 9A44AogEOST0.0                                                                                          0.2        0.2         0.0    9.0    1.2    3.0              0.0
Total 90C0009501 COSTS                                                                                            1021       200.621    226.00      7.2    0.7   491.03    1.10279.0
70101                                                                                 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31.044 .21.1 .4.0   1.04.02    000700.2   010.20n .0.0
…~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ..........   ..
00,011    27-- - - --        - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -- - - - ---1-- -     --0. . . ..   . . . .. .  . .. . .    .. . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . .



- 109 -                                        Annex 7
Table a
P66 111AM
fAMILY HEALER PROJECT
Table e NA4IeRRME6E OEVESoPilEII
mNOt*emuS PRoNIOIIE  Pecovimce
Octai led Coll labia                Totalsi               10541611C
INVESIRIIlE COIlS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~(UI
!!I  PAOINfCIAs  FCIIE
P0114014 HTAOO6A IEc                                                                                                                                                                 la6 ad.I I.41..     
0111510  'EI0AEO                          A-3                                                            1 4 4       16.311      11.042      0.041                                      ale
6151110  0EA46cERSI21.149                                                                                                       12.040      lode-                                       o.2e
DEVI CIO   P60V  HO  IP.DSI             6000.1         -                        .                                    1.11.                       .-                    .         .     140  6
IESCI    11IO   06.              300.f                                                                                                                                            1         4I    1.41 1192  4,7 1N02.    2.e
061161.5 (hoC C16OHDCRI          500004I         -                  4      4                 16               41.2        49.0       4161        4121            -         . 11306
SW1T1.11 PR00V14C110  4CILITIES....    . cn                                                                             441.23010   9 : 624.064 wino       ecct .                        .4  ,
2SIIPERVISIOI                               0%.Ol10                                                                      24       2.92       14344474 ...                         .      12.E 1
SOD-bItd  CIVIL W066Rlea ....                                                                                               2 ......  1.0......  .24. 4_74   1161                           104.
P60010010L REA0OIiA6EER (P161  I.I                                       10,002           -          .           .~~~~~~~~~~~~4   . ...... ....      20.061S
01115164 REAEOI.IARE6AS  pin  -      1     3     3                         4          .      12.103     22.040      21.000                                      67.111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10264 76216 730449 73.67   7368
OlISEIIICI IIAOO6AREEAS                      pi                              1                        el                00.281     90.18       2.00             .                         19:0.1
060   I    P           NGIIIL  1 (P.00 I      00                I.I                                              -      41.537           .           ..                                    410.011
0il', CIA   DIScIcE 11 1610MDp                            .           4      4     4      1     .     9                              7.1.072   1140        28307104.                      10.11
00F01N1 YUE IIPIOT1.002    119.013    110.070                                                                                                     00.101      26.040   211014                41.4
PROVINCIAL VEAO00ARIIR IPIUI                 pie.                                                                                        .           . 10 
01115164 IIA VOIAICAEEe HQn                                       IP..DC                                                 ca43       6.640       213.                      .         -
O0VT191T:  SEA4IAT6                          A-                 I     0                         .    I                  16.143     1000        1014.                                        1.3460
061C D ISAC  11c 0 IVIOCI              pA..                     4                               '5                     .      1  I        2.610s    21.244   18.004           -       4.1
FCTELS 1191100 0 1606611  509   .     4      4     4     4      .      .    16  ...0.....10                           13.40...!:     . 3..    1 .                  3.!!4
SAO-Total FURNITURE                                                                                             0.250      00.046S    64.614      40'.101     17.139   16.094                21.0
0  VEHICLES                                                                                                                                                                                  245
VI.VNCL6IS
POVISNCTIAL   C (4dodnl,                              I                            1                     12. 101     1.0  124                                                           31.044
DISRICT IOC l4c."IIEV, 04T11            'oac,         4     6    12      4      3     .           II   214.110    290.91       6E1.:401    107.016    152.414 !406
C 0 9 5VP69V111014 14,0)      nfl~.,        0     0      0     .            .           '       90640     41030       6412             .           -                         109 230
Sut-ToIol 06601.6$                                                                                         171.00?    162.113   440.101    197.016    102.414                           t  .744.016
2  SPAA6 P49R0                               loSgti                                                                      0.1a?        9.010     011*pe                                     1.4
11*40101l VEHICLES                                                                                           40604  ..6..MM          118. II      1.0        1763                          .1.4
E. TECHNiICAL ASSISTANCE002                                                                                               W          1617         t.07       f746
I_ APACT  64?11.0Q0 P6109 ?.A.
I8PL6kENTATION 0 EVALUATION                           -     4      4     4     6      4      -    20         -      67.071     64.049      69.640      71.407   13.931 !.0
CAPAC064T  0061                        - LO                   II      . F          .E6 1N.T00                  10110......44                . :.....   ....  .....  ....2
21*ToAl CAPACIT  6IJILNQ.OII  P0.T 0*A.                                                                   192,959    381,207    213.102       00.648      11.401   73.912          .     949,138
IWL6R0NTATI06060.61N                                                              & EVALU2ATION26a10                                       20,26       30.120   31.:243               141.407
COMPU1TERP0661                                = A1$1 E                                2      .               .      2119        1425        106         700       701           -      0.3
5Ub-1otoT CAPACITY 6611.011* LOCAL T.A.                                                                                   so930     2.4       0.4         11...83 0   3001         -      0.
51*-TolA1 TOCIOIICAL ASSISTANcCE                                                                              191.950    117.60?7   316.237    106.210    109.146  112.960                 $ .155.316
P. TRAINI NO
I. LOCAL.TRAINIIIO
SR OIVSIONA01                              aI                                                  PHC48,641                        0.18       11.279      13.331   T6.00   78.698        418.011
SROIRCT P14                                                                            I                       ofI6    1.0  6 .164    00.64        6465   91.711?   95.257       SU8.474
MANAGEMENT 13901051                    Ko0clixg,o                  3     3 1                 3    tOi4964s1                                   .4         .3        .41     002         1.0
RAIAARIL4NT                  vclSs.op~~~WIN   4FN        4     2         2         2     6          .     1466        1.60         764         .0       605      6400        6.1
4N1T641N6 6 SIIPRRVISIOII               Pa           .                  I      I     I     I     6                   .401      0.0637      0. 60?      0.920    6.024    6.2          34.7313
S.bT.tola  LOCAL IRAINING                                                                                             116.499    "119.20    110.646    190.606  107.295  104.000   1.693.013
2. 00660661_TRAIN!INA
P1.61.10 600LTH                            .    lB~~~~~~1   24    IS    1  10         102                60.042     61.573      61.044      00.3011      81.1l0            355.461
HCALTII 0001N491C5                         -a I                         2I      .6                            -     40.026      30.101     41.641                2200           -     I2.4
COSPITAL 9A*609I4NT                        -12    12                     6      6     .           364.05                        4016         076        1.1                           124.049
Sia-lolol 1061141110                                                                           316.616~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3    o  911.0441    200.241  217.310  27.1212.4     1 216.1
S,T1.1SALARIES AO ALLWACE
2S. TRAVELN COSTS
H1*184   TRAVEL  COSTS                                            It.71 2126                                                    1101         3.00       1370    2.00 2504 28.4
MlTOR   INCERIcAF PE5IIE                                                                                   0.40       4.26        7.20        0.06       14.1:131  1040111 151.301      70.641
PRVICIL    STAC 642 e/P                                                            ad 2     *e    2        .41        49I IGO        6       7.79        19       031        .01         1.4
FITET 10   44                             O/r                I    2      5     I     21    31   III      1444        0.326      90.311      12.013      271.4    00.01    06.S4414.19
R"TIOIALNCOERNTAL 5069. OP. COSS                                                                           6.60      0404        9.0100.2470.00 9179    9.41                            8240
SALMTIES.A9/1. EST ADALOA NCES                 r        0                  0     o                          f.004      0.9020     90.76         .5 .14 7263 10    19.674  127.042        60o.41
TRAVEL  ALLOWANCES                       GlIm/r        I        I      I               I     1     1      414         400        0.004      10.123       0.0 as    .480    0t.69        36.011
PEIRT/RALIiTII 0ACI                      aa1rI                     I        I' ,I1    I                               490       0.1         1.12        0.     40.34:       260         0.0
GEIAA   116                               lP           I                                                   .1         0.04       6,040      62.111       4.149    6.W    64.9194        743,609
60b1106 OPERATINS COSTS                   SllC          I      I     I     I      1                            0          0         .01        100         108      1.6        .4           .7
S,lb;TotOI IN9R460TA RAOaSONOcTcoo L.0                                                                                              10:2612      951.09     1214.20   1114.486  121.091     79.607
Totl RCORgEINTALCOSTS   PCST
Total      CIA                                                                                                601.498  3,9.2 2on       0.01  1.791       7.20    .8012  19.411 069.       104 4,0
.d)2 5 096  5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dty                                                                                                                                                  .         47
DIE   S 1.TRIT   HC(  16.:51,                                                               3,    .1    '36. O 6.10                                                                 84        3  



PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table 9. MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT
F.A.T A.
Detailed Cost Table         Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity                                                    (USS)
Unit   91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 Total  91/92  92/93   93/94    94/95   95/96   96/97  97/98  Total
..       ...  ...... se.ms amass asses mesas am...  sc...  asse  ma=ce  a   …      5 =====  m== = = =         =
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EQUIPMENT
DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS       su./yr       -     3     3     t     -     -      -     7      - 33.230   33.839  11.500                  -     -  78.569
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT                                                                           - 33.230   33,839  11.500         -       -      -   78.569
B. FURNITURE
DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS        sum         -     3     3     I     -     -      -     7      -  9.806    9.960   3.392         -       -      -  23,158
Sub-Total FURNITURE                                                                           -  9.806    9,960   3.392                            23.158
C. TRAINING
1. LOCAL TRAINING
NDs DIVISION PHC          sum         -     -                 I -  1  -   -      2      -            69.768       - 73.333        -      -  143.101            0
Sub-Total LOCAL TRAINING                                                                   -       -  69.768         -  73.333       -      -  143.101
2. OVERSEAS TRAINING
HEALTH ECONOMICS           -          -     -    6      -    6      -      -    12      -            20.393       - 21.333         -         41.726
HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT         m         -     -     -    6      -    6      -    12        -                - 20.781        - 22.059       -  42.841
Sub-Total OVERSEAS TRAINING                                                                -        -  20.393  20.781  21.333  22.059       -  84.567
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                                                     -  90.161  20.781  94.666  22.059       - 227.668
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                            - 43.035  133.SuO  35.674  94.666  22.059       - 329.395
Total                                                                                              - 43.035  133.960  35.674  94.666  22.059       -  329.395
=.=== ==== .......= =.=======   ========           =======
March 27. 1991  15:51
C'D
m x
'0 -



PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table 10 FEDERAL StclOR SlJPPORT
Detailed Cost Table
Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity                                                (us$)
Unit  91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 Total   91/92   92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. CAPACITY BUILDING FOREIGN T.A.
ORGAN.& MANAGEMENT                 sum        -     -     -     -     -            _     _     20. 354                                   -   20.354
Sub-Total CAPACITY BUILDING FOREIGN T.A.                                                          20.354     '            - '     '         -  20.354
2. CAPACITY BUILDING LOCAL T.A.
ORGAN. & MANAGEMENT                sum                                                          4.999                                         4.999
Sub-Total CAPACITY BUILDING LOCAL T.A.                                                             4.999     -     -      -     -     -     -   4.999
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                       25.353                        -               25.353
B. PROJECT PREPARATION
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY          sum        -                                               200,000            -     -     -              200.000                   -
Sub-Total PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                       200.000                                       200.000
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                 225.353      -           -     -     -     - 225.353
Total                                                                                                   225.353      -    ;      ;     -     ;     - 225.353
March 27. 1991  15:51
i.3a:
0-,
(5)D
-J
0



- 112 -
ANNEX 8
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT - STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
IUS$ Mililonsi
Accumulated             Undisbureed
Disbursementc           Disbur ements              Balanoe
Fel" Year/ 
SemesterdIn        Amount                  Amount                  Amount
FY 1992
December 1901           0.2        0.4          0.2        0.4          44.8       99.0
June 1902               1.8        4.0          2.0        4.4          43.0       96.6
FY103S
December 1992           0.0        0.0          2.0        4.4          43.0       96.6
June 1993               0.7        1.O          2.7        0.0          42.3       94.0
FY 194
December 1993           1.8        4.0          4.5       10.0          40.5       90.0
June 1904               3.7        8.2          8.2       18.2          30.8       $1.8
FY1iO
December 1994           4.5       10.0         12.7       282           32.3       71.6
June 1996               5.5       12.2         18.2       40.4          16.8       9.6
FY IM0
DOcember 19             6.4       14.2         24.6       54.7          20.4       46.3
June 19M                3.7        8.2         28.3       62.0          16.7       37.1
FY 197
DOecember 199           3.6        8.0         31.9       70.0          13.1       20.1
June 167                3.2        7.1         35.1       78.0           9.9       22.0
FY 1W8
December 1007           3.2        7.1         38.3       65.1           0.7       14.9
June 1996               2.7        6.0         41.0       01.1           4.0        8.9
FY 1
December196             2.1        4.7         43.1       06.8           1.0        42
June 19                 1.0        4.2         45.0      100.0           0.0        0.0
Not: Based on PaFstan Educalon Stor profle. April 10.
First yer dlsbursement reflect repayment of the
PPF and the Special Acunt Deposit



- 113 -
AMEX 9
PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Summary Implementation Chart
Years
Activities                                        1     2     3     4     5     6     7
1. Strengthening Health Services
Training of TBAs                           x    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Community health workers                         x      xx    xxx  xxxx   xxxxxxxxxx
Implementation maternal
health (inc. f.p.) package               x   xx    xxx   xxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Implementation CDC package                  x   xx    xxx   xxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Purchase and distribute
medicines and equipment                       x     x      x     x      x     x
Communication and transport system       x       xx    xxx   xxxx  xxxx   xxxx  xxxx
Upgrading tehsil hospitals                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Upgrading BHU & MCH Centres                      xxx   xxx   xxx
Health education activities               x     xx    xxx   xxx   xxxx   xxxx  xxxx
Involvement of communities                  x    xx    xx    xx    xx      xx    xx
Urban experiments                                 x     xx    xxx   xxx    xxx   xxx
2. Staff Development
Training of trainers                       xx   xxx    x      x     x     x     x
Review of curriculum                      xxx   xxx    x      x     x     x     x
Rehabilitation/construction of schools           xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Recruitment of students                          xx     x     x     x     x     x
Pre-service Training                               xx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx
In-service training                         x      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Job enhancement                                  x      xx    xx    xx    xx    xx
Evaluation                                          xx   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx3xxxxxxxxxxx
3. Management and Organizational Development
Creation of supervision and
training teams                         x  x     x      x     x      x     x
Management training                         x    xxxxxx
Civil works at provincial and
district level                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
MIS                                         x   xx
Decentralization of management                  x      x     x     x      x     x
Project management                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx       xxxxxxxxx



- 114 -
Anex 10
Page1            b
PAKSTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents Available on Proiect File
A. Project ProRosals and SupRorting Documents
1. Sindh, Health Systems Development Project - Government of Sindh, 1990
(various drafts);
2. NWFP, Family Health Project - Government of NWFP, 1990 (various
drafts);
3. Health Services in Sind - Director Health Services Sind, 1989;
4. Health Situation in Sindh, Problems, Possible Solutions - Director
Health Services Sindh, 1989;
5. Training and Supervision Programme for Village/Community Health
Workers in Sindh - Director Health Services Sindh, 1990;
6.  Report of DHO's Workshop on the Sindh Health Systems Development
Project - Government of Sindh, 1989.
B. World Bank ReRorts
1. Pakistan Population Project, Staff Appraisal Report, April 1983;
2. Pakistan Health Sector Report, September 1983;
3. Pakistan Health and Population Sector Report, June 1988;
4. Pakistan - Rapid Population Growth in Pakistan, Concerns and
Consequences, March 1989;
5. Pakistan - Women in Pakistan, An Economic and Social Strategy,
December 1989;
6. Pakistan - Population Project, Project Completion Report, December
1990.
C. Government ReRorts
1. National Nutrition Survey 1985-87 - Pakistan National Institute of
Health, 1988;
1...



- 115 -
Annex 10
Page 2
2. Evaluation of the Training of Traditional Birth Attendants (Dais) in
Pakistan - Planning and Development Division, 1989;
3. Health Sector in Pakistan: A Financing and Expenditure Study -
Ministry of Planning and Development (confidential), 1988;
4. The State of Population in Pakistan - National Institute of Population
Studies, 1988;
5. PC-1, Child Survival in Primary Health Care, Pakistan, 1989-1994 -
Ministry of Health, 1989;
6. Basic Nursing Curriculum - Pakistan Nursing Council, 1990.
D.  Other Reports
1. Situation Analysis of Women and Children in Pakistan - UNICEF, 1988;
2. Second and Third Health and Population Projects - Asian Development
Bank, 1984 and 1987;
3.  Fourth Health and Population (Manpower Development) Project, draft
proposal - A3ian Development Bank, 1990;
4. Health Manpower and Training Plan for Pakistan (unpublished) - 1990;
5. 'Safe Motherhood in South Asia' and other papers - Safe Motherhood
South Asia Conference, Lahore, 1990;
6. Working papers including:
(a) Health Manpower Development: Nurses and Paramedics;
(b) Civil Works Programmes, Sindh and NWFP;
(c) The Development of Health Education in Sindh and NWFP.



PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Chart IA: ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Minister of Statr
(SoHeita re)
J   e ocial Wetfare             Hy  eth    D                                            Attachment Dedartments
De n  A  ing             P          Sea retary                                          1. Jiegah Post-graduate  redicao Ctr., Karachi
2. Directorate of Nataria Control Program
3. Di netorate of Tuberulosis  Control Program
4. Direntorate of Ceatrat Heatth b_
Project Director            D.G. Heatlth/Additionat         Project Director          5. Other Subordinate Offices (e.g.. tMICEF_
IsCamabadHosplex t             Secre                    Wortd FosdP       m          Stord  , Karachi; Centrat Heatth Organization)
AutonomDus Bodies
r                   ~~~~~~Pakistar, Nursing Councit, Islamabad
JointDSee y. ScyJoint SecGy.          D.D.G./Dy. See                 E    e D.D.G.                  Pakistan Nedicai  and Dental Counytem, Isamhr
B c H       S      inistration        Publ ic Health   o er             ADevelo pent                 College  of Physicians and Surgeons. Karachi
Nationat Institute of Cardiovascutar Diseases, 
KarachiI
|     W                   |                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~ationat Institute of Heatth, Istaaa
|   E   | W  E      |   |       l   _   |  |        X      {               ~~~~~~~~~~~Board of Homeopathic System, Karachi
D. D.G./Dy. Sec' y.      |D-G./Dy. Sec y.|   D.D.G./Drugs ||Engineering  |Board of Uniani ard Ayurvedic System. Lahore
Basic Health Servcs           Suppties                Controller            Advisor                  Tibb Council, Islamabad 
Pharmacy Council, Islamabad
3'1
rt



PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Chart IB: ORGANIZATION OF PROVINCIAL HEALTH DEPARTMENTS. 1/
|Secretary of Heatth       l
A nAdditionaltaon                                  Director  of     Heathedica Src                      Specia S        Ctatutorol
|TSecretary                                                    B  A. HeaTth Services  Cotleges (5)1  Ilstitutions (41     Bodies
FT ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                             I-   
Director          Deputy Secretary             Chief, Malaria                   Deputy Director of D                    Statistics/Phatning
Planning            (Establishments)                Control                        Priority ProgramI                   -  Medc
- Immunization                       -  Nursing
Deputy Secretary             Deputy Secretary
(Administration)               (Technicat)                                   - Basic Heatth Services                 N edicat Stores/Drug Controt
- T. B. A. Traininkg                    Intspectress of Heatth Services          
- Diarrheat Diseases                    R eatth Eduication                               ^
-wortd Food Program                ... PHDC 
Dep. Director                       Deputy Director                     D eputy Director                   Deputy Director
Karachi Division                      Hyderabad Division                  Sukkur Division                    Larkana Division
|Technicat Officers 2J|
DHDC
I/ This applies to Sindh and is illustrative. The organization in other provinces differs somewdhat.
2/   Also report to Deputy Directors.
Io  :
=  To be established. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ P



PAKISTAN
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Chart 2: ORGANIZATION OF THE PROJECT AND ITS RELATIONSHIP TO THE REMAINDER OF THE PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
Advisory Grosups                             Line Decision Makers                             Project Support, Trainirg
ar Ss4ervisien
Project                                        Secretary                                       Project Director
Steerirng                                          of                                                 and
Comrtittee                                        Health                                         r     PIU  1/
*
ProJect                                         Direc !cor                                        Provinciat
Technical                .                          of                                               Health
Ct mni ttee                                   Health Services                                   Devetqonent Center
Deputy Directors of               *
Priority Programs
*   FOR THE FUTURE     *                             District Health                  *                        *
*                      *                                 Officer-                  **
*      District        *                                                                                 District Health
*       HeaLth     *                                       and                                              Development
*                      * Board                                                                                 Center
*                      *                             tistr.ct Health
*                      *                             Ya>gen- nt Tean                                           *
*                      *                           .       _*
*                      *                                                                                       *
| Union Council      *                             Health Facility,                                   Health Facility
*       Health      *                                Medical Officer                                         Technical
Comnittee        *                                in Charge                                              Staff
*                      *                                    I*
: |   Village          *                                 Viltage                                             Village
*       Health       **********************   Representatives -                                              Health
Comnittee        *                                                                             I      Workers
************ ************
I/ Also liaises with other Departments, particularly Conmmnications and Works and Industries.
=  tine management
-      -  =  reporting
=   advisory/technical



lBRD 22863
_~~~~~j    3                                ,,                                7x        &,7'                           '
3~~                                                                                           6-  104it;<$  
35,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
>Ar A(I ;HAThSIN                                                                                                                   3
t                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTH- W8    
S                                    PAKISTAN                                                    FRO
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT                                                                       Apoid i fCn
PROJECT PRCMNCES
t PRalfCT PRChlhCfS ~~~~~~~~~~JAMMU At
PMNaCE BARBS
l @   KlNATKP CAPITAL                     *       r       r        
TOllAL OOUNaAY(                              )        u         >     D lu J           W
MM HTW4fOAL SOUNDMES                                3\1
To KoKandshv;$<7rVi  PUar o
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ay jugmen  nth  ealsau
TOaBas    bour
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR 1991 
2.W                                                      J<acobab          _       / 
REP5  O F                                                                                                      I        ;rutNDiA1
IRAN  gX                                          
_R~~~~~ J BITIZA %( \_ *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 40 6 l10 8O 1ff0D
( <              t           )  a  5 )>SI~~~7NDH
}!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TJh 11 C 14Thsmp has been prepared by
t ~~~~ { _)HyrtXad t ~~~~~~~~~~~Th- World ff=nk  t*aff ..clu-i-lr
.                              _      / aA                     a         10r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O th. con-n i-n cof the
KFR                          ]        ~~~~~~~~~~~Internal u.. of Th. Woldl fornth
S   j   {  I              w      ~~~~~~~and the International financ.
X    J  D Bodin       J I?    ~~Corporation. Th. d-nomin-tions
.  .                          '}  r                     bq  1 1t       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~used and the boundaries show.
Xe , f ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on this map do not imply, on che
Ambicin Se                                                                  Int,erpartiona TSWFinan-e Corporation, 2
.                                    -XL  <7                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ny judg...nt on th- I-g-l status
^ .   .                                                 ~~~~~~      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rann of  of any territory or any
.                                              -,        ~~~~~       ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kufch  *do-seme.c or *c-pt-nce of
\                      s~~~~~~~u1ch boundaries.
< \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~74 1
FEBRUARY 1991



