Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2240 PAK
                      (Family Health Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 8, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2240 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1991, between  ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project (with the exception of Part C (2)
thereof) will be carried out by the Province of Sindh
(Sindh) and the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) (both
referred to collectively as the Provinces) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Provinces  the
proceeds of the Credit (except the amount allocated for
Part C (2) of the Project) as provided in this Agreement;
Page  2
      (C)   the Borrower intends to make arrangements with
the Save the Children Fund (UK), an international non-
governmental organization based in London, and the
Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to provide
technical support in the carrying out of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Provinces;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and the Provinces of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "Sindh Special Account" means the account to be
opened pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement, to meet expenditures incurred by Sindh
under the Project;
      (d)   "NWFP Special Account" means the account to be
opened, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement, to meet expenditures incurred by NWFP
under the Project;
      (e)   "Special Accounts" means the Sindh Special
Account and the NWFP Special Account;
      (f)   "Project Area" means the two Provinces of Sindh
and NWFP;
      (g)   "PIUs" mean the Project implementation units to
be established pursuant to the provisions of Part B of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
      (h)   "Steering Committee" means the Committee to be
established by each of Sindh and NWFP pursuant to the
provisions of Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement;
      (i)   "Project Director" means the head of the PIU in
each of the Provinces;
      (j)   "PHDCs" mean the Provincial Health Development
Centers to be established under Part C (1) (a) of the
Page  3
Project;
      (k)   "BHU" means a Basic Health Unit established in
each of the Provinces;
      (l)   "MCHC" means a Maternal and Child Health Center
established in each of the Provinces;
      (m)   "DHDC" means a District Health Development
Center to be established under Part C (1) (a) of the
Project;
      (n)   "RHC" means a Rural Health Center established
in each of the Provinces;
      (o)   "Tehsil/Taluka" means an administrative unit
below the district level; and
      (p)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the
Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March
7, 1990 and March 22, 1990 between the Borrower and the
Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 31,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars, two special
deposit accounts (the Sindh Special Account and the NWFP
Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount
required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1999 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
Page  4
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in
each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2001 and
ending May 1, 2026. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2011 shall be one and one-
fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
Page  5
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, (i)
shall carry out Part C (2) of the Project through MOH in
accordance with implementation arrangements, including
time-schedules, satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
shall cause the Provinces to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of the Provinces therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit (except the amount allocated for Part C (2) of the
Project) available to the Provinces.
      (c)   The Borrower shall review with the Association,
by March 31 in each year, the levels of funds required
for activities to be carried out under the Project during
the following fiscal year, and shall ensure, based on
such review, the availability of such funds for purposes
of the Project.
      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for Parts A, B and C (1)
and (3) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      (b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, pro- curement of consultants' services required
for Part C (2) of the Project and to be financed from the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A, B and C (1) and (3) of the Project
shall be carried out by the Provinces pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOH to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part
C (2) of the Project.
Page  6
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause MOH to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
     (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
            available, but in any case not later than nine
            months after the end of each such year, the
            report of such audit by said auditors, of such
            scope and in such detail as the Association
            shall have reasonably requested; and
       (iii)furnish to the Association such other
            information concerning said records and
            accounts and the audit thereof as the
            Association shall from time to time reasonably
            request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting
                  practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least
                  one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Credit Account was made;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to
                  in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                  the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   Either of the Provinces shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that either of the Provinces will be
Page  7
able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council of the Borrower has approved the PC-1
document with respect to the Project; and
      (b)   the Provinces have concluded, under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association, agreements
for obtaining the technical support in the carrying out
of the Project, referred to in paragraph C.3 of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Provinces, and is legally
binding upon the Provinces in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section
Officer in the Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad, Pakistan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMIC                  ECDIV-05-634
                  Islamabad
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  8
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works                                      90%
     (a)     Sindh             3,880,000
     (b)     NWFP              3,670,000
(2)  Goods                                      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
     (a)     Sindh:                             100% of local
                                                expenditures
         (i) equipment,        4,230,000        (ex-factory
             furniture                          cost) and 50%
             and vehicles                       of local expen-
                                                ditures for other
        (ii) drugs and         1,560,000        items procured
             materials                          locally
     (b)     NWFP:
         (i)    equipment,     3,530,000
             furniture
 and vehicles
        (ii) drugs and           990,000
Page  9
             materials
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                               100%
     services and
     training
     (a)     Sindh             4,020,000
     (b)     NWFP              1,840,000
(4)  Project Management                         100%
     (a)     Sindh               500,000
     (b)     NWFP                500,000
(5)  Incremental staff         4,660,000        80% until
     salaries and incre-                        amounts dis-
     mental Project                             bursed from the
     operating cost                             Credit under this
                                                Category reach
                                                SDR 2,120,000
                                                equivalent, 60%
                                                until amounts
                                                disbursed from the
                                                Credit under this
                                                Category reach
                                                SDR 3,530,000
                                                equivalent, and
                                                40% until full
                                                disbursement from
                                                the Credit under
                                                this Category
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Refunding of                150,000        Amounts due
     Project Pre-                               pursuant to
     paration Advance                           Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of the Agreement
(7)  Unallocated               2,270,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                31,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
      (c)   (i) the term "incremental staff salaries" means
the salaries of health workers employed and assigned in
the Provinces under Part B (4) of the Project; and (ii)
Page  10
the term "incremental Project operating cost" means
administrative costs under the Project, including fuel,
vehicle and equipment maintenance, office materials and
local travel costs, as determined by the PIUs.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to improve the
health conditions in the Project Area and to strengthen
the institutional effectiveness and capacity for the
delivery of health services therein.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:     Strengthening Health Services
      The carrying out of activities designed to introduce
an enhanced package of maternal health services and to
integrate and expand communicable disease control
activities, including:
1.    Rehabilitation or extension of about 80 BHUs and
MCHCs,  construction of 2 urban filter clinics and of 4
urban BHUs and upgrading of emergency facilities at about
56 Tehsil/Taluka hospitals.
2.    Provision of: (a) kits and training for traditional
birth attendants and for community health workers; (b)
equipment and furniture for about 1,000 BHUs and MCHCs;
(c) communications equipment for about 300 BHUs and RHCs;
(d) radiological equipment and furniture for about 17
RHCs; (e) equipment for about 19 urban health facilities;
(f) emergency equipment and furniture for about 56
Tehsil/Taluka hospitals; (g) specialized pregnancy
monitoring equipment for about 25 District hospitals; and
(h) transport equipment, including four-wheel drive
vehicles, ambulances, motorcycles and bicycles.
Part B:     Staff Development
      The carrying out of activities designed to increase
the output, and improve the quality, of paramedical staff
and to introduce systematic in-service training to
improve the skills of primary health care staff,
including:
      (1)   the establishment of a nursing college in Sindh
to increase the numbers, and improve the quality, of
nurse tutors and head nurses, the construction in NWFP of
a nursing/lady health visitor school and the upgrading
and expansion of 3 nursing/lady health visitor schools in
NWFP, (2) the introduction of systematic in-service
training for all primary health care staff, particularly
for female staff in the areas of maternal health and
child care, and the provision of necessary equipment,
teaching materials and manuals and transportation
vehicles, (3) the improvement of incentives to encourage
and facilitate the retention of, and service by, primary
health care staff particularly in the rural areas, and
(4) the assignment to the Project Area of new health care
workers, including nurses and female paramedical staff.
Part C:     Management and Organizational Development
Page  11
1.    The carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of primary health care,
through: (a) the construction of PHDCs and DHDCs; (b) the
establishment of a systematic in-service training system
to facilitate the development of management and
supervisory skills; (c) an examination of ways of further
decentralizing authority; and (d) the development of
monitoring, information and financial systems.
2.    The preparation of plans to improve health
management and to stimulate health and population
research at the federal level.
3.    Provision of training fellowships for health care
staff.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in
respect of Sindh, an amount equivalent to $900,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Sindh Special Account, or in respect of NWFP, an amount
equivalent to $900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the NWFP Special Account, all
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that a Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the relevant Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of any Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association requests for deposits into
                  the relevant Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
Page  12
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Association the documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which
                  replenishment is requested. On the basis
                  of each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and
                  deposit into the relevant Special Account
                  such amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of such Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the relevant
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Page  13
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in any Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 4
       Consultants' Services under Part C (2) of the Project
      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of Part C (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
