Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22435
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-30130)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 71 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL
FOR THE JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3013-BR)
June 29, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Brazilian Crmzado (Cz$) (At Appraisal)
Cz$288.55 = US$ $1.00
US$ 0.00347 = Cz$1.00
Rate at Completion R$1.822 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A,O&M               - Administration, Operation and Maintenance
ATER                - Agricultural Development and Rural Extension
CETEC               - Technological Center of Minas Gerais
COPAM               - Minas Gerais Environmental Policy-Making Commission
CODEVASF            - Sio Francisco Valley Development Company
DU                  - Jaiba Irrigation District
EPAMIG              - Agricultural Research Agency of Minas Gerais
INCRA               - National Agraran Reform Institute
JBIC                - Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
MA                  - Ministry of Agriculture
Ml                  - Ministry of National Integration
MMA                 - Ministry of Environment
MST                 - Landless Agricultural Workers' Association
PRONI               - National Irrigation Program
RIMA                - Environmental Impacts Assessment
RURALMINAS          - Colonization and Rural Development Foundation of the State of
Minas Gerais
SEPRE               - Special Secretiat of Regional Policy
SENIR               - National Secretariat for Irrigation
SIH                 - Secretariat of Hydraulic Works
SIR                 - Secretariat of Irrigation
USBR                - United States Bureau of Reclamation
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Luiz Gabriel Azevedo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
Northeast Irrigation Jaiba
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               2
5. Major Factors Affecting Inplementation and Outcome                                11
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   16
9. Partner Comments                                                                  19
10. Additional Information                                                           19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                39
Annex 8. Partner Comments                                                            40
Annex 9. Social Data                                                                 44
Annex 10. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                               46
Map                                                                        47
This ICR was prepared based on the findings of two ICR missions that visited the project during the second
semester of 2000, as well as various contributions from the Borrower and the executing agencies. The ICR
missions were led by Luiz Gabriel T. de Azevedo (LCSEN), and consisted of Robert Schneider (LCSEN), Alvaro
Soler, Peter Wittenberg, Maria Angelica Sotomayor, Manuel Rego, Alexandre Baltar (Consultants) and Kenia
Parsons (LCSRF). Part of the second ICR mnission and the beneficiary consultation workshop of Montes
Claros-MG (December/2000) were financed by a grant from the Bank-Netherlands Water Partnership Program -
BNWPP.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006370                                       Project Name: Northeast Irrigation Jaiba
Team Leader: Luiz Gabriel Azevedo                         TL UTnit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Northeast Irrigation Jaiba                     L/C/TFNumber: CPL-30130
Countrv,'Department: BRAZIL                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; Al - Irrigation &
Drainage; AR - Research; PD - Distribution &
Transmission; TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/01/87                                Effective:                    08/26/89
Appraisal:  01/25/88                                 MT?R:
Approval:  12/22/88                                Closing: 06/30/97            06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL/CODEVASF
Other Partners:  State of Minas Gerais
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Jlice President:     David de Ferranti                         Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                         Phillis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:      Maria Teresa Serra                        NA
Team Leader at ICR:   Luiz Gabriel T. de Azevedo               Jean-Louis Ginnsz
ICR Primary Author:   Peter Wittenberg and Alvaro
Soler
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance: S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Qualitv at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project developmnent objective was to increase agricultural production, incomes and employment in the
northeastern areas of Minas Gerais, the poorest region of the State, and one of the poorest areas of Brazil's
Northeast serni-arid region. Related, specific objectives were to: (i) develop and improve irrigation in the
project area; and (ii) facilitate the future expansion of the irrigation sub-sector through the institutional
development of the Jaiba Irrigation District (DIJ).
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions of the project objectives, which remained clear and unchanged throughout the life
of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following five components: (i) construction of a sprinkler irrigation system
covering about 23,600 ha, including electrification and access roads; (ii) establishment and initial operation
of the Jaiba Irrigation District (DIJ), including settling farmers and providing them with extension services,
training, marketing and social services; (iii) operation and maintenance of the irrigation system; (iv) applied
agricultural research; and (v) provision of technical assistance and training to CODEVASF, DIJ and
R11RALMINAS staff, and preparation of studies to facilitate project implementation and to contribute to
its long-termn sustainability.
3.4 Revised Components:
Only minor revisions were made.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project predates the introduction of the QAG process at the World Bank. However, it is clear that in
general the project objectives responded to urgent needs in the Northeast, and were fully consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil. Project strategy and components were in full concordance with the
Government's policy regarding a new National Irrigation Program (PRONI), set forth in February 1986.
This program aimed at accelerating private sector investment, rationalizing and expanding public sector
agency activities, particularly in the Northeast, and securing support for an integrated national irrigation
development effort.  As was customary at the time of project preparation and appraisal, project
documentation focused mainly on physical schedules and targets. Overall, Quality at Entry is assessed as
satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of the project in terms of its contribution to the Government's goals to increase agricultural
production in drought-prone areas, and institutional strengthening and beneficiary participation through the
creation and training of the irrigation district is rated satisfactory.
This was the first public sector irrigation project which was conceived to allow its beneficiaries and the
private sector to have increased responsibilities in project implementation as well as in the administration,
operation and maintenance (A,O&M) of the new infrastructure. This was a radical departure from the
previously implemented public irrigation projects which were based on a paternalistic approach where
public agencies used to plan, prepare, build and operate the projects, and provide all the required services.
Since most such projects remained troubled by low yields, inadequate O&M of irrigation works, and lack
of participation by the beneficiaries, the Government decided to create a new environment where project
-2 -



beneficiaries would ultimately be the real "owners" of the project. Moreover, it was agreed that a mixture
of small farmers and entrepreneurial entities would be beneficial to both parts, ensuring employment
opportunities and joint marketing options to the small farmers, ancl farm labor to the larger farmers. Even
with a relatively small portion of the overall project in full operation, the results achieved so far are
impressive: the irrigation district has successfully assumed full responsibility for the O&M of the irrigation
infrastructure, it is involved in the technical assistance program, and it provides assistance to small farmers
in obtaining agricultural credits and in the marketing of products. These services are already partially
financed from the collection of water charges, with a tendency towards full autonomy.
The mix of small, medium and large farmers within the same irrigation district also proved to be a positive
output of the project. Small farmers benefit from technology, markets, and employment opportunities for
family members while larger farmers benefit from the availability of workers within the project area, many
of whom have acquired experience in irrigated agriculture, and the possibility for augmenting their
production to secure preferential markets through partnerships with smaller farmers.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Assessments of the physical and institutional performances of the project are given below:
4.2.1 Construction of Irrigation Schemes
The output of civil works is rated satisfactory. The SAR and the Loan Agreement envisaged the
construction of the Jaiba sprinkler irrigation scheme, encompassing a gross area of some 32,800 ha. This
represents the first stage in the construction of an envisaged 100,000 ha gross, or about 70,000 ha net
project, for which major basic infrastructure works were constructed in the late 1970s. To complement the
existing basic infrastructure works, the project built a network of about 200 km of irrigation canals, 22 km
of drains, 21 km of pressurized pipes, and 11 pumping stations. Moreover, the project made improvements
to the existing main canal and installed electrical panels at the main pumping station. The total irrigable
area is about 24,000 ha, including 9,400 ha divided into 5 ha plots for low-income families, and about
8,100 ha divided into 20 ha and 50 ha modules sold to the private sector entrepreneurs. The remaining area
includes existing private farms, which receive irrigation water through the Jaiba network. The project
financed the rehabilitation of an existing area (Mocambinho) of about 1,000 ha settled by small farmers,
and converted it from flood to sprinkler irrigation. Additionally, the project reinforced the existing electric
power system, constructed 16 km transmission lines and erected two sub-stations, and built 270 km electric
lines equipped with 11 sub-stations. A 484 km feeder road network provides access to each plot and links
with the existing road network
At loan closing an area of about 9,800 ha is in operation, which includes approximately 1,370 small farms,
63 entrepreneurial farms and two private enterprises. The total area ready for irrigation is expected to reach
about 17,000 ha by the end of the year 2001, with the scheduled initiation of production in the
approximately 150 mid-size farms that, so far, were unable to secure agricultural credits to be provided by
JBIC and BNB to initiate their development. Additionally, macroeconomic instability during the period
(1998-2000) following the sale by CODEVASF of areas for private development contributed to higher
interest rates for agriculture credit and to substantial increases in the cost of irrigation equipment that
include a larger proportion of imported components. The bidding process for an additional area of 2,600
ha slated for entrepreneurial farming was suspended in mid-1998 as a consequence of a legal decision.
This ruling was triggered by a petition by the Landless Movement Union (MST) to set aside about 1,100
ha of an area earmarked for entrepreneurial farmers to be distributed among 212 landless families. Had
this plan been implemented, CODEVASF would have had to comrpletely revise the layout of the plots, and
therefore the design of the irrigation and drainage networks, to meet this requirement. This would have also
resulted in an additional investment of about US$4.0 million and the redistribution of the remaining
mid-size farms. Moreover, the settlement of small farmers inexperienced with irrigation technology in an
- 3 -



area settled by entrepreneurial farmers could have triggered social tension. CODEVASF negotiated this
matter diligently, offering an altemative settlement of the families in an area earmarked for small farmers
and reached a court-sanctioned agreement on this matter. This allowed for the re-initiation of the
settlement of small farmers in 1999. It is expected that a final settlement will be reached during 2001.
Nevertheless, since INCRA, the agency that selected the families, did not follow a selection criteria similar
to the method used by CODEVASF, the prospects for their successful settlement, the management of the
area, and their relationship with the district remain uncertain. Families to be settled in this area will have to
pay irrigation water fees like any other family in the project area.
4.2.2 Initial Operation of the Jaiba Irrigation District
The output of this component is rated satisfactory. This component comprises the creation and training of
the personnel of the Jaiba Irrigation District (DIJ), a private, non-profit organization, which, currently still
in cooperation with the public sector (CODEVASF), provides A,O&M to the entire common infrastructure
within the project. The development and subsequent performance of the District is one of the most
successful experiences in the transfer of public sector responsibilities to the private sector in Brazil. It
represented a pioneering endeavor, introducing a new model of irrigation project management in Brazil,
later adopted all over the country as the most efficient alternative for the A,O&M of this type of
undertaking. The District, which operates with a small staff of professionals, has been able to perform
adequate A,O&M of the irrigation system, and was instrumental in the selection process of the small
farmers and their subsequent settlement. The District provides technical assistance and agricultural
extension services to the small farmers, and it was through the District that the farmers managed to receive
agricultural credits during a period when the access to banks in the region was extremely difficult. Within
the Agricultural Development and Rural Extension (ATER) activities, new cropping methods have been
introduced to foster the production of marketable high-value crops, mainly fruit cultivation. Currently
about 75% of the area cultivated by small farmers is planted with fruit trees and vegetables, of which
almost 60% are banana plantations. Nevertheless, the DIJ, which a few years ago was considered a
role-model for other irrigation districts, became a target of criticism by some Jaiba farmers, many of whom
feel that it should focus on A,O&M and let the farmers' organizations deal with ATER, credits, marketing
and social issues. Since the DIJ has been involved in many aspects concerning farmers' livelihoods, from
securing short- and long-term credits to providing health services, education and potable water supply, it
has always been associated with any faults in the adequate provision of these services, rather than with the
benefits. Moreover, most farmers consider water charges too high, and blame the District for cutting the
water supply when they are unable to pay accumulated water charges. Some farmers blame low
production (hence inadequate ATER) and unsatisfactory marketing efforts for their inability to pay water
charges. The District's involvement in initiating and organizing all the above-mentioned activities was
essential to guarantee their speedy and proper initiation as well as fair chances for long-term success.
However, once adequately running, it should have gradually removed itself from being in charge and
encouraged the creation of strong farmers' associations to take over. There are indications that continued
DU involvement in activities such as securing credit insulated small farmers from the real efforts,
obligations and risks involved in accessing financing. There are signs that the system's weakness led to
lower- cropping intensity and yields during the late 90s aggravated by the general situation of the
agricultural sector in Brazil. At that time project implementation coincided with a period of declining
agricultural prices and mounting farmers' debts, and it became evident that many small farmers lacked the
financial strength and management skills to overcome the financial and technical challenges facing them.
Compounding this problem are indications that a substantial part of ATER efforts were lately directed to
provide assistance in accessing financing rather than providing technological support and organizational
advice. This may have left small farmers ill-equipped to face some of the technical and managerial
decisions they face in order to become profitable again, and achieve long-term sustainability for their
operations.
-4 -



Cultivated Area
High Value x Low Value Crops
1989 - 1999
100- 
90- ',E
70 [°fii=              l     t      
C0
50.
1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
Year
High Value '-Low Value
Number of Cultivated Crops
1988- 1999
N 34°lX
30 f
C2
C 0 S j10 0
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
Year
laLow    'High
There are 41 farmers' organizations within the project area. Most of these organizations, however, were
created with the soThere are 41 farners' organizations within the project area.  Most of these
organizations, however, were created with the sole objective of accessing funds to purchase a tractor, build
a shed, or implement rural electrification and thus lack a strong basis for consolidation and growth. The
average number of members in an association is 18, but some have only 8-15 members. These
organizations became highly indebted, some even unable to operate. The two cooperatives that were
organized have only 82 members, which denotes the still relatively low level of organization of the farmers.
CODEVASF understands the importance of strengthening farmers' associations and, at the beginning of
2000, initiated a study to review all the aspects of farmers' associations, including the DIJ, and propose
recommendations to improve the situation. Experience shows that strong and well-organized associations
are an important requirement for long-term project sustainability.le objective of accessing funds to
purchase a tractor, build a shed, or implement rural electrification and, thus, lack a strong basis for
consolidation and grow. The average number of members in an association is 18, but some have only 8-15
members. These organizations became highly indebted, some even unable to operate. The two
cooperatives that were organized have only 82 members, which denotes the yet relative low level of
organization of the farmers.   CODEVASF understands the importance of strengthening farmers
associations and, at the beginning of 2000, initiated a study to review all the aspects of farmers'
associations, including the DIJ, and propose recommendations to improve the situation. Experience shows
that strong and well organized associations are an important requirement for long-term project
sustainability.
-5 -



Small Farmers* Participating in Associations
1990- 1999
80
E60 
40 40
L  20-
0
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Year
^ Farmers settled for more than 3 years
The project, specifically by the actions of the DIU, had a major role in improving the quality of life of the
population. The project not only provided direct employment in irrigated agriculture to the beneficiaries,
but the DIJ was active in providing education and health services to the beneficiaries and their families.
The project constructed seven schools and four health centers within the area, which were operated initially
by the DIJ, and gradually taken over by the State and the municipalities. The implementation of health
posts and schools was supported by the State Government.
Access to Education improved considerably during the project life. There are a total of seven schools
operating in the project area, with a total of 2,842 students. The cycle starts in pre-school and ends in
technical training for young adults. Elementary/middle school is divided into 3 series: Basic (lst to 3rd
grade) with 933 students, intermediate (4th to 6th grade) with 978, and advanced (7th and 8th grades) with
414 students. High school is provided to 461 students and preschool to 56. In the municipality of Matias
Cardoso, which grew as a result of the irrigation district, there are an additional 1,505 students enrolled
from preschool to 8th grade; and 96 students enrolled in the adult education program (see Annex 9. Social
Data, Table 1).
In addition to basic and middle education, the Project benefits from the CODEVASF-created "Projeto
Amanha" which provides technical education to youth, most of them children of the direct beneficiaries of
the project.  The courses provide training in activities related to irrigated agriculture such as:
electromechanics; operation and maintenance of agricultural machinery; electric pump maintenance; water
and soil management; basic rural management; and micro-agribusiness, among others, with a total of 280
students trained in agricultural-related activities. After completing the courses most of the students are
employed by farmers, local businesses, or the DIJ, to provide services in the project area. Other courses
are related to health services such as: preventive medicine (40 trained); nutrition (12); and child and
adolescent health (12). The third set of training programs is related to production of basic goods to the
community and include: bakery; embroidery; handcrafts with fibers; and dressmaking. A total of 525
students have been trained by the Amanhd Project (see Annex 9. Social Data, Table 2).
Health services have also improved during the project's life. Before the irrigation district was created there
where no health centers. Currently within the project area there are four health centers with two doctors,
one nurse, seven health agents, and nine health assistants. In addition there are two dentistry facilities with
two dentists and two pharmacists who provide daily ambulatory services. The two municipalities in the
area of influence of the project - Jaiba and Matias Cardoso - also provide health services. The Hospital of
- 6-



Jaiba (constructed during the project implementation period)has with 30 beds and a staff of ten physicians,
and provides specialized services such as X-rays, laboratory, ultra-sound, electrocardiogram, and minor
surgeries. In Matias Cardoso there are four health centers and four ambulances, with two physicians, one
dentist and one physiotherapist (see Annex 9, Social Data, Table 1).
Social services, provided to the community are another important factor that contributes to the
improvement of quality of life. Access to childcare centers allows mothers to work, thus contributes to
increase household income. Within the District there are four childcare centers that provide services to 357
infants. In Matias Cardoso there are also four nurseries benefiting 300 children. Police services for the
community are provided within the project area and in the two neighboring municipalities by the State
Police. The crime rate in the area is very low. Additionally, four community centers were created and a
water treatmnent plant that provides potable water to part of the population within the project area was built
with financing from SUDENE and is operated by the DIJ.
The existence of a growing commercial activity within the project area serves as a catalyst for economic
development. Without the possibility of spending income in the area, the direct beneficiaries would buy
goods and services in other municipalities that would receive most of the gains from the increase in income.
The creation of "small service areas" within the Jaiba area allows farmers to purchase goods and services
locally, thus generating demand for goods and services and generating employment. The Amanha Project
has been key for these commercial activities to grow. Currently there are seventy-eight private commercial
establishments in the area, including: pharmacies, supermarkets, bars, bakeries, restaurants, shoe and
clothing stores, beauty salons, agricultural supply shops, construction material stores, motorcycle and
bicycle stores, furniture and appliance shops, cellular phone stores, gas station, a branch office of a bank,
and even a computer school.
4.2.3 Operation and Maintenance of the Irrigation System and Water Charge
This component is rated satisfactory. A specialized unit of the DIJ carries out O&M activities. O&M
activities cover all common infrastructure, including irrigation canals and related structures, pumping
stations, electric sub-stations, feeder roads and drains. This unit has a staff of 87, uses a fleet of 34
vehicles and operates two dredgelines. The level of maintenance is very high, based on USBR criteria, with
periodic preventive maintenance activities rigorously implemented.
The relatively high cost of O&M could be attributed to several factors: (i) the main infrastructure has been
built to serve an area of up to 100,000 ha, out of which the first-stage project would cover only about
32,000 ha; (ii) currently only about 9,800 ha are cultivated, while the whole first-stage network of canals,
roads and drains, and all the relevant pumping stations must be operated and maintained; and (iii) the cost
of energy represents about 51% of the total O&M cost. All the pumping stations are operating during the
day, although the rates for night pumping are significantly lower: 90% for the main pumping stations, and
about 73% for the others. The cost of energy is proportionally higher in the State of Minas Gerais due to
higher taxation of energy service companies. Night pumping could be introduced only when the majority of
the farmers would agree to irrigate during the night, but this would require additional investments to
convert or adapt existing on-farm irrigation equipment accordingly. Another factor, which makes night
operation difficult, is the low level of automation of the Project. Most pumping stations are operated
manually and are demand-driven. Moreover, some farmers are questioning if the conventional sprinkler
irrigation system was indeed the best option for them. Since soils are sandy, the irrigation lines need to be
moved at short intervals, which makes night operation difficult, since small farmers do not have the means
to pay for a night operator. Additionally, drip or mini-sprinkler systems could have been easily operated
unattended during the night and would have reduced water consumption significantly. However, this
technology was expensive and not so readily available at the time of project preparation. Nonetheless, a
-7 -



growing number of farmers have been able to convert their systems to micro-sprinklers and to achieve some
level of automation for night irrigation at individual plots.
One of the major achievements of the Jaiba project is the general acceptance by its farmers that they need
to pay water charges to cover the O&M expenses. Farmers complain that the cost of energy is too high but
recognize that under relatively normal conditions of high yields and adequate prices, the cost of energy is
acceptable. In June 1990 the irrigation district started to impose water charges on users who have been
operational for at least two years. These charges, albeit only about 15% of the actual O&M costs, were
only paid by a fraction of the farmers. In May 1999 an agreement was reached with the farmers regarding
the payment of water charges. According to this agreement, outstanding water charges for the June 1990 to
May 1998 period were negotiated with each farmer. From June 1998 onwards, new settlers would start
paying charges after a one-year grace period, while farmers already irrigating would start paying 20% of
the charges, increasing the percentage gradually and reaching full value in June 2000. Currently all
farmers are paying full water charges of R$17.82/1,000m3, without any subsidies. Farmers with three
unpaid water charge bills had their water supply cut. Currently 289 plots have no water supply, which
represents about 21% of the settled small farmers. From May to October 2000 bills for water charges
amounted to about R$1.64 million. Farmers paid R$1.25 million, with unpaid bills representing 29.7% of
the total. Cutting the water supply had a drastic effect on non-payment of water charges. While in 1997
70% of the bills remained unpaid, this was reduced to 55% in 1998 and to 5% in 1999. The increase that
occurred in 2000 is mainly due to the fall in banana prices and to inadequate marketing efforts.
In the past newly-settled small farmers received free irrigation water during the first year, after which they
started paying water charges, which increased gradually during the following two years, from 20% to full
payment. In the future, newly-settled farmers will only receive free water during the first year, and will
have to pay full water charges as of the second year and onwards.
4.2.4 Applied Agricultural Research
The output of this component is rated highly satisfactory. A program for applied agricultural research was
established in 1992, and a contract for carrying out this program was signed in 1995 with the Agricultural
Research Agency of Minas Gerais (EPAMIG). DIJ, with inputs from farmers and the Rural Extension
Service, had a key role in the formulation of research proposals. Research activities were mainly focused
on enhancing fruit cultivation practices, and in particular banana cultivation. In a joint program between
EPAMIG and 157 small farmers, an area of 100 ha was cultivated with 12 different types of fruits.
Additionally, EPAMIG expanded existing research lines and initiated new lines of applied research in pest
control, transfer of technology, management of irrigated agriculture of selected crops, optimum use of
fertilizers, and soil and water management in the irrigated agriculture of the sandy soils, typical for the
Jaiba Project. The research component fully achieved its objective to provide practical recommendations to
the farmers regarding sustainable irrigated agriculture practices, linked with adequate soil and water
management. The US$3.2 million earmarked for research were fully used during 1995-97. This included
about US$900,000 spent on machinery, equipment and accessories, which continued to be used in
follow-up research activities financed by the State of Minas Gerais.
As a complement to the applied research program, the Project embarked on a program to study intensive
fish cultivation in the irrigation canals. Following two experimental stages, this program recently entered
into its operational stage, when five farmers were selected to start large-scale fish cultivation.
Finally, a cattle-breeding incentive for milk production has been recently sponsored by CODEVASF. A 20
ha plot has been allocated for this purpose, with 25 heads of cattle.
-8 -



4.2.5 Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (ATER) Service
Since 1988 DIJ contracted a private consulting company, PLENTA Consultoria de Engenharia Agricola
Ltda., to provide ATER services to the small farmers. The continuous provision of these services by
PLENA is considered satisfactory. The rendering of ATER services underwent several slight modifications
with regard to the role of DIJ and the consultants, respectively. At the time of the loan closing date,
production management, including negotiations of agricultural credits and marketing, was conducted by
DIJ, while ATER services were rendered by PLENA, with support from EPAMIG and the Agricultural
Research Agency of Brazil (EMBRAPA), which provide information on new technologies. The consultants
were employing a staff of three agricultural engineers and fifteen agricultural technicians, whose work is
exclusively dedicated to the Jaiba small farmers. The average number of farmers receiving assistance from
one technician rose from an initial 27 in 1988 to 85 by the loan closing date. This was justified by budget
cuts. Following initial provision of services, the technical assistance became "demand driven," and the
services are adequate. One of the most significant benefits derived from the continued ATER effort is an
excellent database which provides a wealth of information regarding the project, its fanner families,
production, income, etc. Nevertheless, many farmers were dissatisfied with the assistance. It is not
realistic to expect that the vast majority of the farmers, who have modest levels of education and limited or
no prior experience in irrigated agriculture, would became successful fruit growers in a matter of just a few
years. Another important aspect pointed out by many as a pitfall is the fact that the agricultural engineers
were dedicating a substantial portion of their time to bureaucratic chores, thus being forced to minimize
their field visits and technical support to the technicians. Nevertheless, it is considered that the ATER
services had a significant impact on production. This is illustrated by the increase of average annual family
income, which rose from US$1,000/family/year in 1990, to about US$5,400/family/year in 1996. This
figure decreased in 1998 to about US$3,300/family/year, due primarily to the fact that a large number of
small farmers had been settled in the project over a period of 18 months preceding the evaluation. Another
important indicator of growth is the increase in the percentages of areas planted with fruits and vegetables
compared to traditional crops: while in 1992 16% of the areas was occupied by fruit trees, and 9% with
vegetables, in 1999 the area planted with fruits reached 43%, and vegetables occupied 17%.
Annual Average Net Income
1994-1999
6000   -     -F- ''' ........  ... . . ... ....  . .... .........   .. ... .     ..-.........
5000-
4000!
E   3000     
!!   2000
1000-
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
Year
Agricultural credits were foreseen at appraisal as a potential major risk, and it proved to be a major
bottleneck. Small farmers are eligible to receive US$8,300 equivalent as long-term investment credits,
repayable in eight years, and US$2,800 equivalent as short-teim credits, repayable in one to two years.
Initial interest rates were reasonable but became very high during the late 90s, and many farmers were
unable to renegotiate their debts.  Credit limits and repayrnent terms are not compatible with the
requirements of prevailing cropping patterns within the project area, and many farmers became indebted
and unable to continue producing. The situation of some farmers has gradually deteriorated, resulting in
cutting their power supply and irrigation water, since they failed to pay the charges. On the other hand,
entrepreneurial farmners have to offer extremely high guarantees in order to receive agricultural credits and
-9-



are similarly facing very high interest rates. This became a major problem that has seriously slowed down
the implementation of irrigation in the areas for entrepreneurial farmers, which a few years back were
successfully auctioned by CODEVASF for reasonable prices.
Although the Project Agreement signed between the Bank and CODEVASF on August 31, 1989 stipulated
that by December 31, 1990 CODEVASF should enter into a Coordinating Agreement with the
Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM) for carrying out a campaign against waterbome
diseases within the project area, this has not been implemented. Although SUCAM was later dismantled,
the Borrower did not initiate any action to find an alternative solution, and the Bank did not insist that they
follow through with the plan. Finally, in 2000, the DIJ, with support from CODEVASF, organized a
six-month campaign of awareness of waterbome diseases in the project area. Moreover, DIJ has organized
water quality control campaigns twice each year.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was estimated at appraisal as 14%. This estimate was
based on the analysis of five representative farm models, three depicting small farmer production each
under a different type of soil, and one for each size of entrepreneurial farm under a set combination of two
different soil types. This rate was calculated excluding the costs of the studies and applied research
activities from the cost stream and is equivalent to a 12% rate when those costs are considered. The
economic rate of return was re-estimated based on the net incremental benefits derived from a combination
of the actual types of production systems detected in the field and a projection, based on recent changes, of
the transformations they will likely undergo in the near future. The re-estimated rate of return, keeping a
25-year period of analysis (1988-2012) as in the appraisal document, is 19% and the Net Present Value
(NPV) is US$28.3 million (base 1988=0 and an 11% discount rate as used during appraisal). This rate
was calculated considering all project costs in the cost stream and thus compares favorably to the
equivalent 12% rate estimated during appraisal. The NPV is approximately 8 times larger than that
calculated during appraisal (US$3.7 million). The estimated return takes into consideration only direct
benefits derived from increased agricultural production and does not account for other (spillover) benefits
derived from project involvement in educational, health and environmental activities.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No estimate of aggregate financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal, but financial rates of return
for the models ranged from 16% to 36% for small family units (FU), and averaged 20% for entrepreneur
farm units (EU). The expected annual net value of production per unit at full development was estimated
at an average US$3,848 for FU, and US$23,170 and US$56,800 for the 20 ha and 50 ha EU, respectively.
It was expected that these values would be achieved by the eighth year of the project, at which time the
aggregate annual value of incremental production was estimated at US$36 million. The re-estimate at
completion indicates that full development will most likely be achieved eleven years later than envisioned
during appraisal (year 2007). At that time, an annual value of incremental production of US$72.9 million
is expected (base 1988=0), slightly more than twice as much as initially forecasted. The corresponding
aggregate financial rate of return is 17%, with a NPV of US$31.4 million (base 1988=0). The estimated
financial rate of return (in constant prices) compares favorably with the borrowing rates for irrigated
agriculture for the period established at a real rate of 6%. The average market borrowing rate for FU at
completion was 10% and for EU 18.6%.
This positive portrayal contrasts with the real financial situation of farrners at project completion, when due
to external factors farm gate prices for the most representative products in the area had fallen sharply.
Available records (2000, Annual Inplementation Report) indicate that net value of production per family
for small farmers had reached an average of US$4,550 for the period 1995-1997 (US$3,440 base 1988=0),
- 10 -



only 11% lower than the value at full development expected at appraisal. However, by 1999 the value had
fallen to US$2,390 (US$1,680 base 1988=0), or 56% below the appraisal estimate, due to a large extent to
a sharp decline in the prices of the main products after 1997, mounting farmers' debts and subsequent
decline in cropping intensity.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a positive institutional development impact on the creation and operation of the Jaiba
Irrigation District, and CODEVASF training became an important element in its development. "
On-the-job" training programs were organized, with the assistance of the United States Bureau of
Reclamation (USBR) team in Brazil. O&M personnel of the irrigation district received training at
CODEVASF's Regional Center in Montes Claros, and the training facilities under the youth training
program (Projeto Amanhd) have been successful in mobilizing a large number of youth from the project
area. These youth training facilities are focused on irrigated agriculture and agro-industries, but also teach
a variety of practical skills, such as equipment repair, carpentry, sewing, cooking, tree nurseries, etc.
Horticultural efforts are in place, where students are taught to use advanced technologies. The latter is
intended to create revenues by selling the products, and, for the long term, to create a knowledgeable group
of next-generation farmers, and an attempt to achieve transfer of technology to the older farmers through
the youth.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation was at times adversely affected by lack of prior harmonization between the Government's
policies and procedures for procurement and bidding, and those of the World Bank. A severe drought in
the Northeast, which lasted from 1991 to 1993, forced the government to shift priorities from the irrigation
projects to emergency operations. Additionally, project execution during its first two years was severely
disrupted by macroeconomic and fiscal crises. Adding to the project's start-up difficulties, a series of
administrative reforms which followed the introduction of a new Federal Constitution in 1988, dismantled
or overhauled many federal agencies, creating confusion and insecurity in the public sector. In January
1989 the post of Special Minister for Irrigation Affairs was abolished, and an Executive Secretariat for the
National Irrigation Program (PRONI), linked to the Ministry of Agriculture (MA), was established. In
March 1990 a National Secretariat for Irrigation (SENIR) was created within MA. In 1992 this structure
was again changed, as SENIR was renamed the Secretariat for Inigation (SIR) and transferred from MA to
the newly-created Ministry of Regional Integration (MIR). I'his period, between 1991 and 1994, of
significant political, economic and social change in Brazil, worsened by hyperinflation and economic
instability, largely overshadowed the concerns of individual projects.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Throughout most of the project execution period (from 1989 to, 1996, and during the last six months of
project execution in 2000) the inadequate allocation of counterpart funds, and the untimely release of
budgetary resources, seriously affected the pace of implementation. In some instances, for political
reasons, funds were approved, but not released. The Congress was often late in approving national
budgets, resulting in the release of funds by mid-year; this seriously undermined CODEVASF's ability to
achieve its implementation plans. Institutional changes at the f-ederal level continued throughout project
execution; each modification required new political, administrative and budgetary arrangements, which
resulted in severe disruption of the implementation process. In 1995 MIR and SIR were transformed into
the Ministry of Environment, Water Resources and the Amazon (MMA), and its Secretariat for Water
Resources, respectively. In January 1999 the project management was transferred briefly to the Special
- 11 -



Secretariat of Regional Policy (SEPRE), linked to the Presidency, and in September 1999 to the Secretariat
of Hydraulic Works (SIH) within the newly-created Ministry of National Integration (MI).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The strong commitment and sincere efforts of CODEVASF, unshaken by all the hierarchical changes at the
federal level, were among the most important factors in the successful implementation of the project. It
provided the necessary staff and resources and installed a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that
consistently exercised effective management of the implementation of civil works and institutional
strengthening, and had a good coordination with DIJ regarding the settlement of farmers, development of
ATER services, and application of water charges. CODEVASF efficiently handled the crises created by
the requirement for unexpectedly severe and broad environmental mitigation actions, and the settlement of
212 landless families, both imposed by court orders.
The performance of the State of Minas Gerais was less than optimal, especially during the first years of
implementation. In 1988 the State signed an agreement with the Federal Government and CODEVASF,
setting forth its obligations with regard to project implementation and making land available for the project.
From 1996 onwards, with the increased settlement of small farmers, the pressure was mounting on State
institutions to provide the necessary support. Areas which were particularly sensitive included health,
education and transportation. Additionally, it was the State's responsibility to pave a 54 Km road leading
from the project area to the town of Jaiba. This was essential to allow year-round marketing of products.
The State was requested in 1998 by the settled farmers, represented by DIJ, to increase its support in social
services, basically in financing the construction of urgently-needed additional health, education and water
treatment facilities and providing funds for their ongoing operation. The performance of the State of Minas
Gerais improved towards the end of the implementation period, although it still remained far from
satisfactory. Nevertheless, the State took control of the implementation of the JBIC-financed second phase
(Jaiba II) project, which is progressing very satisfactorily. In addition, following an ICR workshop
organized in the city of Montes Claros, MG, the State Government has taken a leading role in coordinating
task teams to find alternative solutions to the challenges that the project currently faces.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project cost was estimated at US$158.0 million during appraisal. Estimated final cost was US$151.1
million, not including the approximately US$ 2.0 million approved in the Federal budget of CY2001 for
CODEVASF, to finance the settlement of small farmers, to support the DLJ in its activities, and to complete
various minor works. This would be supplemented by about US$300,000 from CODEVASF's own
budget. Additionally CODEVASF received about US$450,000 to finance studies related to a future third
stage project. These refer to technical, economic, social and environmental feasibility studies regarding a
potential 17,000 ha. The loan of US$71.0 million was fully disbursed. During implementation, cost
allocations among components were adjusted in light of accumulated implementation experience.
Allocations for civil works were increased by 30%, while funds for consultants' services were reduced by
43%, and recurrent costs of the DIT were increased by 130% to assure that sufficient funding would be
provided to the district, in order to facilitate the transition towards full self-management. Due to
cumulative delays, mostly the result of lack of adequate flow of counterpart funds, and court decisions
related to environmental mitigation activities, outside the control of the implementing agency, the loan
closing date was extended twice, initially for two years, and later for one additional year.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated "likely." The basic condition for overall sustainability is a firm
- 12 -



Borrower commitment to allocate adequate funds for the complete settlement of small farmers, and to
support the DIJ until it gradually becomes self-sufficient. With respect to long-term sustainability, the
second-phase project should become operational in 2002; hoNvever, there is still no firm Borrower
commitment for the future development of a third-phase project. It is imperative to lower overall O&M
costs, which could be achieved if the main infrastructure, built with the objective of serving up to 100,000
ha, could serve larger areas (economies of scale). The second-phase project, of about 35,000 ha gross area,
together with the first-phase gross area of about 33,000 ha, will cover about two-thirds of the total area of
Jaiba, with a good potential to develop a third-phase project which would undoubtedly contribute to
lowering O&M costs.
The performance of the DIJ is outstanding. This was the furst highly successful transfer of the government'
s responsibility to the private sector in the Brazilian public irrigation sector. The interchange of experience
and best practices at peer level has been highly successful in other countries and should produce similar
benefits within this project.
The project has successfully promoted innovative participatory approaches by launching several activities
such as:  (a) developing youth vocational training programs.  This program  provides diversified,
well-designed and carefully-conducted training to the 14 to 21 year-old children of small farmers,
encompassing several activities, from irrigated agriculture to equipment repair. Over 500 young people
have already graduated from these occupational training courses, many of whom were absorbed in the
private sector or became qualified to become small entrepreneurs. This program will enhance the capacity
of future irrigation users and enable future farmers to better use modern technology; (b) attracting
agribusiness firms (e.g., tomatoes, peppers, etc) to settle in the area and promote agreements with small
farmers for the provision of technical assistance services and high quality seeds; (c) providing irrigation
water at full cost to three private firms operating in the project vicinity, thus lowering overall O&M costs
and providing employment opportunities to small farmers; (d) opening a center in the State capital, Belo
Horizonte, for the commercialization of products. The Jaiba trademark has been increasingly associated
with quality products, especially bananas, around the region and beyond; and (e) implementing a
comprehensive environmental management plan during project imnplementation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is expected to make transition arrangements to regular operation through the following actions:
(a) completion of a few still outstanding minor works, including on-farm development equipment for the
small farmers not yet settled; (b) implementation of the canal automation system. This would allow a more
rational distribution of water, aiming at maximizing night-time pumping, when rates are up to
approximately 90% lower, thus significantly reducing the cost of electricity bills; (c) selection and
settlement of all small farmers to occupy remaining plots; (d) selection of entrepreneurial farrners to occupy
remaining plots and assurances that they would have access to financing for land clearing and purchasing
of irrigation equipment; (e) completion of titling for small and entrepreneurial farmers, to facilitate credit
allocations; (f) provision of gradually declining financial support to the irrigation district, until full
emancipation is reached; (g) provision of ATER services during the first two years of operation of each
small farm, including technical assistance, support to production, demonstration farms, agricultural credits
and commercialization; (h) continued provision of guidance to small farmers with respect to irrigated
agriculture, and in particular fruit cultivation and high-value crop selection; (i) promotion of community
empowerment, including collective marketing arrangements; and (j) extended guidance on irrigation district
management, including the collection of water charges, and other physical and administrative aspects of
irrigation management. A list of key performance indicators by which the project may be monitored in the
future is shown in Annex 1.
- 13-



Another relevant aspect that may contribute to successful transition and long-term sustainability are the
partnerships being established among CODEVASF, the State of Minas Gerais, municipalities, the DIJ,
farmers' associations and NGOs with the objective of seeking alternative solutions to the challenges facing
small farmers in the project area. This effort receives full support from the Bank through its Brasilia
office. On December 12, 2000, the Bank, through a Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program (BNWPP),
and CODEVASF financed a consultation workshop in the town of Montes Claros in Minas Gerais. This
was a result of a request by local NGOs that the Bank look at several key project issues that were
negatively affecting small farmers in the project area. These include, among others, agricultural credit
limits, markets and technical assistance. The seminar's main objective was to seek inputs and information
for the preparation of the ICR. It resulted, however, in an agreement among all parties (including massive
representation of small farmers and their respective associations) to create working groups with clearly
assigned tasks and responsibilities to resolve priority issues identified during the meeting. This agreement
has been followed up by two meetings and many of the working groups are making considerable progress
towards finding solutions for many of the issues identified as bottlenecks for small and poor farmers.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During identification the Bank took account of the project's consistency with the Government's
development strategy and priorities for the Northeast, and the Bank's country assistance strategy. Several
missions visited Belo Horizonte and the project area during the preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal
phases, complemented by several missions by the Borrower to Bank headquarters in Washington D.C. A
high-quality multidisciplinary team, consisting of an irrigation engineer, an agriculturalist, and an
organizational expert, conducted the appraisal. There were no major issues at appraisal and the loan
became effective three months after the signing of the Loan Agreement. The Bank's lending performance is
rated satisfactory.
7.2 Supeivision:
Bank supervision was considered by the Borrower to be particularly effective. Supervision missions
provided the skills needed at the right times, as well as staffing continuity, and were proactive in resolving
the serious obstacles to implementation that occurred over time. They played a creative role in devising
solutions with the Borrower, and provided advocacy in securing their approval by senior Government
decision-makers.
The Bank supervised the project regularly, with 24 supervision missions from May 1989 to April 2000.
Supervision missions were thorough and usually managed to focus on real issues jeopardizing
implementation. Supervision reports gave accurate assessments of progress and constraints. During the
initial stages of implementation Bank actions were mostly concerned with procurement and administrative
issues, and lesser efforts were devoted to monitor the implementation of the institutional development of the
irrigation district. The monitoring system was not properly set up to monitor other critical elements besides
the physical and financial progress of the project.
The quality of supervision benefited substantially from decentralization of the project's task manager to the
Brasilia office in late 1996. This significantly contributed to a constant and proactive dialogue among
CODEVASF, the Bank and other key partners such as the State of Minas Gerais and the DIJ, among
others. Field-based supervision allows for the early identification of issues prior to their development into
fUll-blown problems. This changed the focus of supervision from a more reactive mode to a preventive and
proactive supervision phase. The increased dialogue and cooperation between the Bank and its clients
- 14 -



directly contributed to the attainment of creative and effective solutions to many unforeseen challenges
encountered during project implementation.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the above considerations, the overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory. The Bank was
very flexible in administering the loan and assisted the Borrower in making exceptional adjustments in the
financing percentages of certain categories, raising them to 100% of foreign expenditures for civil works
and for the applied research contract. In a keen attempt to facilitate project execution, the Loan Agreement
was amended five times, the Loan closing date extended twice (by a total of three years), and loan proceeds
reallocated five times. However, one of the most important contributions by the Bank was in the technical
assistance area, as recognized by the implementing agency. Bank supervision missions were instrumental
in assisting the client with the identification of potential problems (e.g., environmental management,
marketing and commercialization, operation of the irrigation systems, lack of applied agricultural research,
etc.) and the definition of alternatives to resolve them.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was undertaken by CODEVASF, jointly with RURALMINAS. It was one of the first
cases of federal-state cooperation in irrigation development. Preparation activities were followed up by
four Bank missions during 1986 and 1987 and, although slightly delayed, were considered adequate.
Nevertheless, certain preparation activities, such as completion of detailed designs, institutional
development, and adequate progress in land acquisition, were not accomplished as agreed.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance during the initial years of implementation, and later on during 1995-96, is not
considered satisfactory with regard to the availability of counterpart funds and approval of budgets. The
situation improved thereafter, but recurrent delays in the effective release of funds caused slowdowns in
implementation. This situation worsened again during the last semester of implementation, in 2000.
Administrative/legal and financial burdens, causing an almost complete stagnation in implementation,
plagued the first three years of implementation. Following complaints filed by environmental NGOs, a
federal court issued a court order in May 1990, banning all further land clearing operations in the project
area. This, combined with lack of counterpart funds, virtually paralyzed execution until 1993, when
construction activities started to progress well.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
That the project, although delayed, eventually reached its objectives may be attributed largely to the good
management and stable and competent staffing of CODEVASF. Despite the numerous changes at higher
levels, there were few changes in CODEVASF, and key members of the implementation team remained
involved from project preparation until closure. They were consistently committed to, and creative in,
overcoming obstacles and keeping actions moving. CODEVASF had some difficulties in complying with
Bank procurement procedures during the first year of implementation, but these obstacles were soon
overcome, only to be followed by the unexpected and harsh court order banning land clearing. The federal
court order issued in May 1990 was a result of complaints filed by environmental NGOs, alleging that
CODEVASF had failed to implement recommendations of the RIMA.
Although there were no major environmental issues related to the implementation of the project, it was the
first irrigation project in Brazil for which the Bank requested an environmental impact statement. Brazil
introduced new, more rigorous environmental protection standards after the loan agreement became
- 15-



effective, and the State of Minas tGerais insisted on implementing an environmental mitigation program,
which required large budgetary allocations, initially not contemplated. CODEVASF contracted the
Technological Center of Minas Gerais (CETEC) to monitor the implementation of environmental activities,
which included the creation of a forestry reserve of 7,500 ha, and an ecological corridor of about 3,000 ha.
In addition to the Environental Impact Statement (RIMA), required by law, CODEVASF also agreed to
implement all the recommendations of the State of Minas Gerais Environmental Council (COPAM), even
though these were extremely broad in scope, and many of the 42 environmental actions required were
beyond the scope of environmental issues. These included genuine environmental issues, such as:
monitoring of ground and surface water quality; planting of native tree varieties; protection of flora and
fauna in the project area, including the monitoring of movements of fauna; studying and protecting animals
that fled from other areas; removing snails, etc. Further topics referred to various aspects of application
and storage of agrochemicals and the disposal of their packaging. Other requirements referred to public
health issues, such as: establishing a medical assistance program; health control of people settled from
outside areas; medical guidance for settlers; and construction of new health posts. Additional topics
referred to education and water supply matters, and miscellaneous issues regarding a master plan for the
greater Jaiba project; optimal use of the Sao Francisco R,iver's water; a pilot project for basic living
standards; energy alternatives for domestic use, etc. Due to severe shortage of funds and administrative
problem, the implementation of these activities was progressing slowly, resulting in the complaint filled by
NGOs, and the subsequent banning of land clearing. An out-of-court settlement reached by the Borrower
with the NGOs resulted in the liffing of the ban. Nevertheless, the State Environmental Agencies did not
authorize CODEVASF to proceed with the land clearing until mid-1991, which remained partially in effect
until November 1993, hindering the implementation of infrastructure and thus slowing down the pace of
settlement. CODEVASF spent US$4.0 million to implement environmental mitigation activities, which
resulted in an impressive array of actions, ranging from the establishment of a 17,000 ha ecological
reserve, monitoring fauna and flora, re-vegetation, environmental education, and an exemplary collection of
all agro-toxic material within the project area. CODEVASF recently signed an agreement with a university
regarding research of native tree species to be planted in the forestry reserve, and another agreement with
the Military Police for the establishment of a forest police unit within the project area.
Throughout project implementation CODEVASF has maintained adequate and well-organized records of
financial and physical execution by the project. The performance of the implementing agency is rated as
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance, considering its performance during preparation and implementation, and
the implementing agency's performance, is rated satisfactory. Once the counterpart shortage and banning
of land clearing problems were solved, implementation pace became satisfactory, thanks to good project
coordination and strong commitment by CODEVASF, which managed to develop effective linkages with
the DIJ and with Minas Gerais State agencies.
8. Lessons Learned
The project provided various lessons which are widely applicable to similar irrigation projects, and other
infrastructure projects in Brazil.
*   The project-financing plan should carefully evaluate the Government's ability to meet counterpart
funding requirements, and macroeconomic factors and conditions must be taken into consideration
during preparation.
- 16 -



*   External financing usually pays more attention to infrastructure and environmental mitigation
over agricultural development. Execution of the physical project features, the development of the
irrigation district and implementation of environmental mitigation activities were considered as
priorities, while more attention could have been directed to the quality and efficiency of ATER
services.
*   Delays in project implementation could have been avoided or shortened. The main causes for
delays were the following: (a) financial (lack of adequate counterpart funding, and uneven allocation of
budgets throughout the fiscal year); and (b) legal (court rulings), and to a lesser extent: (c) institutional
(lack of standard bidding documents in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines); and (d)
political (changes in Government policies and in the overall coordination entity). These challenges and
bottlenecks should be clearly identified during project preparation and alternatives to mitigate their
impact should be identified.
*   Risks should be properly identified, and mitigating measures adopted. Risks, especially those not
within Borrower or implementing agency control, should be identified and addressed up-front, at
appraisal and at mid-term review, and realistic targets should be set accordingly. Although some key
risks were identified up-front, others were not, and the mitigation measures for an identified risk did not
go far enough. Difficulties in supply and demand for agricultural credits were identified as a major
project risk, but an ongoing Agricultural Credit Project, and the Government's macroeconomic
stabilization plan, were not effective in the long run, and there were no effective measures taken to
correct the situation. The Borrower's financial capacity to provide sufficient counterpart funds in a
timely manner became the major problem during implementation, but was not identified as a risk
up-front.
=   An independent and self-sustaining entity for project administration, operation and maintenance
is essential to ensure long-term sustainability. The establishment and adequately running-in of the
DIJ was a key factor in achieving efficient O&M of infrastructure and initial provision of proper
ATER services, thus gaining the confidence of the future farmers, which led to the implementation of
water charges.
*   Good baseline data and an early implementation of effective monitoring system are essential. The
availability of a comprehensive database and of a well-functioning monitoring system is essential for
the early identification of the problems that can prevent the achievement of the envisioned development
impact, and would contribute to the difficulties and limitations to the impact evaluation.
*   Successful diversification of crop production depends on obtaining small farmers' confidence.
Diversification and introduction of high-value crops, such as fruits, should be made carefully, when the
new crops are accepted through demonstration plots and adequate extension support to avoid the risk of
rejection by farmers due to cultural background or lack of experience.
*   Agricultural credits are always a decisive factor in becoming a successful farmer. The limits of
credit lines, their terms and the farrners' facility to access credits would greatly influence the farmers'
ability to adopt new technologies, increase production and income. The Bank should pay more attention
to this issue when preparing irrigation projects and always look into the possibility of including credit
components into its irrigation loans.
- 17 -



*   Selection of beneficiaries is an important element in assuring long-term sustainability. The project
adopted innovative ways to select both small and large farmers, through an elaborate bidding process.
A sound selection process is essential to increase the chances of successful project implementation and,
more importantly, long-term sustainability. This is an area that warrants further study and analytical
work by he Bank and clients alike.
*   SmaWmedium  farmers mix.  It is extremely important to maintain a well-balanced mix of
beneficiaries to maximize the development impact of irrigation projects. While medium-/large-scale
farms could most easily achieve higher levels of efficiency, they tend to spend their income outside of
the project area. On the other hand these farms have better access to technology focusing on the
production of high-value crops besides providing employment opportunities. Small farmers provide
labor to larger farms while benefiting from technologies and market development from medium to
larger farmers. Small farmers tend to spend the majority of their income in the project area, generating
demand for other goods and services and thus contributing to the maximization of the development
impact of irrigation.
*   Rules should be thoroughly thought out and then applied equitably to avoid unnecessary tensions
and inequities. The application of different selection criteria for different types of settlers, and
different terms for applying full water charges, can only create inequities within the community, that in
the end may conspire against the achievements that may be reached by other activities, such as those
related to the establishment and successful operation of the DIJ.
*   Facilitating access to credit is an important ATER activity. Nevertheless, it should be an element
within a holistic approach which should involve, among others, training towards improving managerial
capabilities of farmers and not just a stand-alone credit service, or else run the risk of having a negative
effect on those assisted.
*   Farmers are keen observers and experimenters; they can, with appropriate training, be trusted to
make their own decisions on how and when to adopt modern, complex technologies.
* Financing the subsistence of small producers. A lesson learned from the past is the crucial need to
finance the subsistence of small producers during the first two to three years needed, until the
production system is fully implemented and stabilized. Special attention should be given to
decapitalized and unskilled resettled farmers.
*   Bank support and supervision, including sufficient funding for supervision, should continue until the
end of the project. The lower-cost institutional components are generally implemented towards the end
of an irrigation project, and this is the time that Bank assistance and supervision should be greatest if
sustainability is to occur.
*   Decentralization of supervision indeed proves to be very imnportant to the construction of a proactive
and open dialogue between the Bank and its client. The opportunity for frequent site visits and
meetings with clients and project beneficiaries alike was essential to provide a clear and transparent
view of the Bank's role and to consolidate its technical assistance capabilities that were highly
appreciated by clients.
*   Dealing with sunk-cost issues offers many challenges. When dealing with projects designed to make
better use of existing infrastructure, there are obvious investment cost savings. However, the issue of
- 18 -



over-designed infrastructure could have a significant impact on the overall cost of O&M and affect the
project's financial viability. This is a n issue that needs to be carefully evaluated during project
preparation.
* Competitiveness. Issues related to the challenge of globalization in agriculture (internal versus
external market focus) need to receive more attention in the preparation of future irrigation projects,
most notably for very large projects.
* Project Objectives. The objectives of irrigation projects should be clear from the outset. The focus
on poverty alleviation versus other objectives, and the resulting trade-offs, should be evaluated and
explicitly factored into project design.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Bank has received written comments on the draft ICR from the main implementing agency,
CODEVASF, as well as from the State of Minas Gerais Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN/MG). Both
agencies approved the ICR and had valuable suggestions These comments have been translated and are
presented in Annex 8. Both CODEVASF and SEPLAN/MG actively participated in the preparation of the
ICR, providing data and information as needed and leading the Montes Claros beneficiary consultation
workshop as well as the follow-up actions resulting from the recommendations of this workshop.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicatori/Log Frame Matrix
Performance Indicators
Aclivitv                                                           Year                                                          Total
198   1989    1990       1991    1992      1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999         2000
8
Settlement of.
Estimate    0     190      280      360      500      140
Actual    0      0       57        0        0        0        0       126     130     343      137      2         29        824
Estimnate  20020
Actual   159     0        0        0        0        0         1       0       3       0        4       34        1         202
Estimate  170    170                                                                                                          340
Actual  202    53        28        26       14       0        0        0       3       -3      -1       4         1         327
Estimate          30       80       110      120       10
Actual    0      0        0        0        0        0        0        0      62       2       81        0        0         145
go                                                                                                                         I
Estimate  370    390       360      470      620      150
Actual  361      53      85        26       14       0         1      126     198     342      221      40        31       1,498
Estimate-   370    760      1,120    1,590   2,210    2,360                                                                    2,360
cumulative
Actual-  361    414        499      525      539      539      540     666      864    1,206   1,427    1,467     1,498      1,498
cumulative
Irrigted area
Estimate          950     1,400    1,800    2,500     730                                                                    7,380
Actual    0      0        0        0       250       0        44      664    5,683   -3,275    506    2,783       0        6,655
500      500                                                                    1,000
Actual  705      0        0        0        0        0         4      -2      341    -347       0      337        0        1,038
Estimate  860    850
Actual    0      0        0        0      1,661      0        -12      0      62      -66      -6       71        0        1710
Estimate          700     1,900    2,800    3,200     500
Actual    0      0        0        0        0         0        0       0       0      412    -412    8,043        0        8,043
Estimate  860   2,500    3,300    4,600    6,200    1,730                                                                    19,190
Actual   705     0        0        0      1,911      0        36      662    6,086   -3,276    88    11,234       0        17,446
Estimate -   860            6,660                      19,190                                                                  19,190
cumulative         3,360             11,26   17,460
0
Actual-  705    705        705      705     2,616    2,616    2,652   3,314   9,400   6,124   6,212   17,446    17,446      17,446
cumulative
- 20 -



Incoming and Production Control of the Irrigation District of Jaiba - 1994-1999
Enterpreneurs Cultivated Area
Year      Cultivated Area (ha)      Production (Kg)                Incoming (R$)
Net               R$Jha
1994                       157.50            768.900              240,340.00         1,525.97
1995                       190.00          3,846.554            1,870,273.00         9,843.54
1996                       335.00          7,617.054            3,120,861.00         9,316.00
1997                       412.34          12,722.890           2,046,266.00         4,962.57
1998                       465.86          9,064.080            2,447,055.00         5,252.77
1999                       808.22         14,923.940            3,651,468.00         4,517.91
TOTAL                       2,368.92          48,943.418          13,376,263.00         35,418.76
Distribution of the Irrigated Area by Irrigation Method and Sector - 1999
Sectors                   Irrigated Area                                     Total
ASPERSAO             MICRO-ASPERADO
CONVENCIONAL
Mocambinho              683,50                    18,00                           701,50
Area-F           1.438,23                   206,00                         1.644,23
Area-C3            269,40                     24,50                          293,90
1.676,84                   40,00                          1.716,84
Area-A            1.981,12                   79,60                          2.060,72
Area-B
TOTAL             6.049,09                   368,10                         6.417,19
- 21 -



Evolution of the Cultivated Area and Crops 1992-1999
Crops and Cultivated Area on the Jaiba Project
Crops                        1992     1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Cotton                       42.00    3.50      2.20      0.30      i.00      4.30      475.40    93.15     11.50
Peanuts                     .0.70     0.70      2.00      2.05      2.95      52.50     49.98     10.25     9.85
.Rice                         587.51   320.95    242.58    163.65    197.09    93.38    442.26    166.25    144.54
Sugar Cane                   9.20     8.70      10.84     7.84      0.25                                    1.50
Beans                        1,329.96 2,100.72  2,138.46  1,294.41   949.87    2,051.97   1,162.64  748.58    424.02
Vigna Beans                           8.60      8.00      28.78     7.00      15.30     80.03     216.41    54.82
Mamona                                                                                  65.44     9.90      41.30
.Manioc                       1.85     0.55      2.15      1.15     4.22      6.97       5.60     7.32      17.65
.Corn                         198.00   258.40    483.18    539.61    386.29    415.89    645.72    536.10    557.30
Grazing Land                 2.50      15.75    39.20     62.56     63.80     64.75               148.69
Sorghum                                                   0.40      0.10      0.30      4.80      3.30      3.00
Forage.. ,                                                                                  .               5.50
sUBTOTAL- Traditional Crops                                -           - -            - ..   - . .   ---    - --- - -
,plus Grazing Land            2,171.72  2,717.87  2,928.61  2,100.75   1,612.57  2,705.36  2,931.87   1,939.95  1,270.98
: ......  .. ......   .......... .........  .....- .. ......  ..  .........  ..  ........ ..  ..........  ...  ......  .. .. ... - .............................  ....  .......  .................... .....................  ............ ........................... ..........
Pumpkin          .4.50                          2.15      19.03     6.50      12.92     28.66     52.21     14.45
.Pumpkin Seeds               .86.46                        44.15     16.00     3.60      10.68    54.50     44.45
Lettuce Seeds               .7.20     0.40                          0.50      4.10      2.90      8.90      14.45
Garlic                                                    0.15      0.25      0.40      0.10      1.12      0.50
Sweet Potato                 0.50     1.00      1.00      0.10      0.10                1.90      9.69      35.09
iBeetroot                     0.10     0.10      0.60      0.10      1.95     0.35       1.08      1.39     0.80
Onion                       .5.30     1.60      1.36      19.91     57.04     51.66     120.31    174.09    214.21
Carrot                      .0.35     0.35      11.37     60.02     3.53      9.45      18.92     11.54     8.36
Coriander                                                 3.40                          1.50      13.08     27.20
Cauliflower                                                                             1.40      0.17      0.00
Green Beans Seeds            .15.62                       17.00                         2.00      0.50      2.50
1Gherkin                                                                       3.35     2.95      3.62      1.14
Watermelon                    39.83    24.80     29.75     157.91    192.13    157.12    305.89    194.77    104.67
Watermelon Seeds             2.30                                                       1.10      8.27      16.76
Melon                        .1.50    1.50                                              0.20      2.25      1.00
Melon Seeds                                                                             0.25      3.10      5.20
Winter Squash Hybrid                            1.02      9.90      10.38     11.30     27.52     46.60     3.70
Industrial Cucumber                                                           0.15       0.50     0.87      5.25
Cucumber Seeds               3.00                         12.65                                   5.10      30.20
.Pepper Seeds                                                                  1.35               2.00      0.00
;Capsicum                     1.68     1.68      0.05      1.87     2.18      4.04       3.00     4.27      2.57
jIndustrial Capsicum                                                                     6.10      80.30    56.30
*Capsicum Seeds                                                                                             2.40
,Okra                                                      1.72      6.87      5.30      10.52     11.03    13.12
Okra Seeds                  -38.70    19.50               9.20      34.20     35.40     29.09     49.80     15.17
'Cabbage                                                   0.20     0.10      0.70       2.20     0.42      0.00
*Tomato                                          0.64      3.98     3.54       5.25      9.20      11.54    5.46
.Ground Tomato                43.10    92.90     70.15     0.50               39.07      60.45    89.20     38.00
Tomato Seeds                                                                                                6.46
SUBTOTAL - Olericola          250.14   143.83  118.09    361.?9      35.27    345.51    648.42    840.33    669.41
Pineapple                                                                               5.45      9.90      14.80
*Acerola                               3.80      8.30     5.00      4.45      3.50      3.35       1.85     1.80
.Atem6la                                                                                3.50      7.10      9.10
.Banana                      '444.12   575.88    603.83    1,078.02   1,778.22   1,882.26  1,540.92  1,628.96  1,509.91
.Cashew                                                                                 0.50      0.50      0.50
Coconut                      1.30     1.30      3.43      19.23     23.54     30.79     45.74     111.19    159.86
Fig                                                                                     0.50
'Guava                                 0.25      2.75     4.95      7.55      8.05       16.90     19.80    22.70
Orange                       1.80     1.80      2.87      2.72      3.76      3.69      4.62      3.92      7.02
Lemon                                           3.50      20.50     28.35     55.70     94.60     113.70    129.82
Papaya                       1.00     0.20      0.20      5.75      13.20     23.75     53.85     71.64     109.21
Mango                                           17.00     17.00     31.10     53.95     81.20     98.27     99.77
Passion Fruit                                             5.50      7.70      2.20      0.18      3.44      10.69
Pine Nut                    .0.50     0.50      2.00      2.00      1.80      7.20      14.20     17.05     22.20
'Mandarin                                                                               4.00       7.60     15.67
.Grapes                      2.80     3.50       .50      8.00      8.50      8.00      9.50      9.00
'SUBTOTAL - FruW(cola        451.52   587.23    651.38    1,168.67   1,908.17   2,079.09   1,879.01  2,103.92  2,118.05
TOTAL                         2,873.38  3,448.93   3,b98.08.3,631.21   3,856.01.5,129.96  5,459.30   4,884.2   4,058.44
Source: DIJ - Distrito de Inigacio de Jaiba
PLENA Consuftoria de Engenharia Ltda
OBS.: Traditional Crops and vegetable data refer to the each year's production
Fruit crops data refer to the cultivated area on December of each year.
- 22 -



Evolution of the Production - Jaiba Project
.Crops @t)
Crops             ~~~~~    ~~1992  1993  19        195       1996       197        1998       1999      2000
Cotton                  2.5       3.90       0.90                             5.25'      59'6.35    84.62     9.44
Peanuts                                                 2.83       6.97       68.69      61.39      14.73     11.68
.Rice                    1,1 15.28  560.65    681.07     411.22     658.44    244.79     1,247.79    507.45    459.95
:Sugar Cane                                              256.00    420.00                                     50.00
Beans                   :1,398.54  2,484.28    3,125.87    1,597.84   1,379.40   2,290.81   1,456.23    991.33    630.76
.Vigna Beans                                  3.92       18.39     4.59        12.17     51.44      121.76    33.62
:Mamona                                                                                  36.69      5.25      35.08
:Manioc                           5.48        6.00       19.2       40.19     55.50      66.46      67.30     286.18
:Corn                   484.36    643.28      1,448.30   1,361.82   730.88     1,121.30   1,590.15    1,630.29   1,766.88
Sorghum                                                            5.00                  156.28
Forage                                                                                                        197.00
:sUBTOTAL- Traditiion"a'l
:Crops plus Grazing Land  .3,026.73  3,697.59    5,266.06   3,667.30   3,245.47   3,798.51   5,262.78    3,422.73  3,480.59
Pumpkin                :26.85                9.5         101.41    37.00      66.54      203.88     45 1.31    60.70
:Pumpkin Seeds           18.80                           9.47       8.93      0.54       1.14        13.12     10.58
Lettuce Seeds           :2.11     0.18                                        0.90       1.30       3.14       7.55
Garlic                                    ~~~~~     ~~~~~      ~~~~~      ~~~1.20  2.20  1.20  0.50  3.50  3.00
Sweet Potato           :4.00                                       14.00                 13.80      100.36    402.23
Beetroot                                                            12.18     0.90       9.85       30.24     16.30
Onion                   :94.50    40.00       16.00     568.48      1,522.20)  1,442.16   2,917.01    5,810.01  6,441.20
Carrot                                        129.80     523.94     123.72    96.1       168.50     143.95    174.95
Coriander                                                3.04      0.85                  1.79       13.05      13.56
.Green Beans Seeds       17.97                           9.39       3.90                            0.48       1.59
Gherkin                                                                       5.37       10.14      2.96      8.60
Watermnelon             ;461.74    326.69    425.78     2,045.85   2,714.80   1,776.07   5,195.09    3,797.99  2,297.65
Watermelon Seeds        :0.49                                                            0.08       1.74      2.62
Melon                                                                                               0.15      0
:Melon Seeds                                                                                        0.56      0.50
Winter Squash Hybrid                                     45.75      50.06      35.92     194.35     218.98    23.00
*Industrial Cucumiber                                                         0.24       1.40       6.20      47.00
Cucumber Seeds         0O.52                             2.51       1.10                             1.68      5.18
Pepper Seeds                                                                  0.67                  1.15      0
:Capsicum                                                22.26      21.21     27.59      15.99       19.10     8.72
Jndustrial Capsicumn                                                                     7.92        195.54    143.33
Capsicum Seeds                    11.11                                                                       0.73
'Okra                                                    4.36       36.61     35.41      25.24      47.67      66.52
'Okra Seeds            .39.20     20.93                  4.62       30.02     29.34      27.26       52.30     13.92
:Cabbage                                                 1.20                  1,50      4.50       2.45       0
:Tomato                                                  76.08      54.66     90.11      147.15      104.15    123.05
Ground Tomato          .1,288.37  3,321.06    2,646.00                        1,552.98   873.4      2,825.09   1,344.45
Tomnato Seeds                                                                                                  0.92
Subtotl-Olercolas 1,954.55  3,719.97    3,227.33   3,419.56   4,633.44   5,163.54   9,820.29    13,846.871,278
Pneapple                                                                                0.40       5.92      0.50
Acerola                                                  2.75      4.48       2.90       1.35       0.50      0.03
Banana                  .582.30    3,018.47    2,608.83   4,299.97   9,557.66   13.902.17  11,050.76   1,3076.02 12,657.84
Coconut                                                                       1.86       23.74      100.29    618.79
Guava                                                              9.58       17.00      28.17      17.43     7.60
Orange                                                   5.15      3.00       7.18       2.00       1.33      6.72
~Lemon                                                              14.10     49.10      105.67     331.53    705.85
.Papaya                                                             56.63     293.93    570.17       1,064.23   1,169.43
'Mango                                                                         24.12     8.58        100.85    19.65
'Passion Fruit                                                      28.00      7.83                  2.00      45.87
Pine Nut                                                                                                      1.28
Mandarin                                                                                            3.08      3.00
Grape                                        3.52        26.44     58.06      50.20      66.85      15.73     1.80
:Subtotal -Fruticolas  ;582.30    3,018.47    2,612.35   4,334.31   9,731.5'1   14,356.29  11,857.69   14,71.91 15,238.36
:TOTAL                  5563.58  10,436.03   11,105.74  '11,421.17  17,610.42  23,318.34  26,940.76   31,988.51 29,936.80
Sources: DIJ - Distrito de 1rrigaoo de Jaiba
PLFiNA Consultria de EngenhariA Ltda
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project-                 0 5        ;  Comunen  ApprlssalQ   Acua /LMesti;u-  PcrcetRge
L4- JAfat 1x;ptionSdien                                  71.0                 120.4                169.8
2i.2.Jm g0 Ja0-a lirigation District2¢ 3zi;40.2                                19.7                 49.0
;03. App1iedAgritigtura1esearh: ;#S;i ;0:                 4.2                   2.3                 57.5
L Technical AksistanoS Trainjn e & Studies               10.4                   8.9                 85.6
Total Baseline Cost              ~~~125.8
C n e B. ;0;    00;; t00   :  iiSi. 0Eiii X   002 '   000032.2
T:TAL                                   158.0                151.3                  95.9
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (US$ million equivalent)
Expen--diditurhe                                .2 .    PF;remeutMethogXdy
tit'',t  i -( 00 i00t'SS;  t00tAp,prai t::m si I Ethrn; te t           Acua/ati :       .slm jtt
civi0 ili00Xi4; i47.8    7.2        -        -    55.0    0.1         n/a     n/a       n/a     0.1
Goodsy:||:j   & Eipm, entSi   30.8  6.4  1.0        -    38.2   28.8         n/a      n/a      n/a    28.8
C - 0 i ;:Othr           -        -     53.1        -    53.1      9.1       n/a      n/a      n/a      9.1
- 000j0 0j40ig   '  l    k  Ser$=-  vices 
(Cos.-. yl;|i/jJj-y;t:Xt;.s  -  -      -    11.7    11.7         -       n/a      n/a      n/a
78.6    13.6      54.1    11.7   158.0   38.0          n/a     n/a       n/a    38.0
- 24 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Proiect Component    Appraisal Estimate                         Actual [Latest               Percentage of
Estimate                    Appraisal
IBRD   Federal   Total   IBRID   Federal   Total   IBRD    Federal  Total
Govt.                       Govt.                   _     Govt.
1. Jaiba Irrigation Scheme            n/a        n/a     70.9      n/a       n/a    120.4       n/a        n/a   169.8
2. Jaiba Irrigation District           n/a       n/a     40.2      n/a        n/a     19.7       n/a       n/a    49.0
3. Applied Agricultural Research       n/a       n/a      4.0      n/a        n/a      2.3       n/a       n/a    57.5
4. Technical Assistance, Training &    n/a       n/a      10.4     nla        n/a      8.9       n/a       n/a    85.6
Studies
Contingencies                          n/a       nla     32.3
TOTAL                   71.0       87.0    157.8    71.0        80.3    151.3    100.0       92.3    95.9
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
SAR estimates
The economic rate of return of the project was estimated at appraisal as 14%, based on the analysis of five
representative farm models. Three of those models depicted 5 ha small farms, each endowed with one of
the three main types of soils (Latosolic, Podzolic and Alluvial) that may be found in the area. The other
two models represented 20 ha and 50 ha entrepreneur farms, each endowed with a set combination of the
main soil types available in the area earmarked for the settlement of those types of farms (78% Latosolic
and 22% Podzolic). This rate was calculated excluding the costs of the studies and applied research
activities from the cost stream and it is equivalent to a 12% rate when those costs are considered.
Financial rates of return for the models ranged from 16% to 36% for small family units (FU), and averaged
20% for entrepreneur farm units (EU). The expected annual net value of production per unit at full
development was estimated at an average US$3,848 for FU, and US$23,170 and US$56,800 for the 20 ha
and 50 ha EU respectively. It was expected that those values would be achieved by the eighth year of the
project, at which time the aggregate annual value of incremental production was estimated at US$36
million.
Revised estimates at completion
Methodology and assumDtions
Drawing from the ex-post analysis included in the Borrower's Completion Report, the economic rate of
return was re-estimated using aggregate production patterns based on a combination of the major crops
being produced, the actual types of crop rotations and production systems detected in the field during
project implementation, and a projection of the transformations those systems will likely undergo in the
future based on changes detected in the near past.
Net incremental project benefits were calculated based on the difference between net benefits from an
imputed "without project" (WO) situation, and net benefits projected at full development for production
models in the "with project" (WP) situation. Net benefits for the WO-situation were estimated at a level of
WP net benefits (approximately 4% in this case) comparable to those of a similar project implemented by
CODEVASF.
The WP production patterns used summarize actual data for the 1989-1999 period and production trend
forecasts thereafter. The patterns portray a different evolution of production systems in FUs (5 ha lots)
than in EUs (20 and 50 ha lots). While EUs could be represented by just two production systems (both
focused on fruit production), FUs had to be portrayed by four different production systems that depict the
transition of those farmers from traditional rainfed agriculture to irrigated agriculture. In the case of
entrepreneurs, the two basic production systems, one for each farn size, are focused on fruit production.
Within each farm size, two different variations of the basic production system were used, differing among
themselves in the amount of concentration in banana production as opposed to other permanent fruit
production.
-26 -



Incremental production
Table III- I shows the rates of adoption of the different cropping patterns considered, by the different types
of producers. Tables 111-2, and III-Al through III-A3 in the Appendix, show more details on the evolution,
by farm type, of the settlement process, the net area under cultivation, the type of irrigation system and
total area occupied by each production system, as well as the specific crop rotations considered within
each. The crops comprised in the analysis are the most representative raised during the period up to project
closing. With the exception of cotton and garlic, they cover all those included (corn, beans, onions,
bananas, mangoes, papayas), or considered as viable options (watermelon, tomatoes, citrus, passion fruit)
in the SAR analysis.
TABLE III-1 :Adoption rates of different production systems,
by period and type of unit
Period    Family units      Entrepreneur units
System  Adopters System  Size (ha) Adopters
'88- '91  THFt    100%
'92 - '96  BHFtT    100%
'97 -'100 BOH      20%   BFplFtH     20     30 %
BHFpl     60 %   BFplBeH           70 %
HTFpI     20 %   BFpFpl     50     85 %
BFpFpl             15 %
T - Traditional rainfed crops  H - Horticultural crops
Ft - Fruit trees (temporary)  Fp - Fruit trees (permanent)
B -Banana             0 -Onion
I - Interstitial crop  Be - Beans
As shown in the above table, the evolution of the production systems for FUs is assumed to take place over
three distinct stages, displaying a progressive degree of specialization in irrigated crops. The process
evolves from common production systems with the inclusion of traditional rainfed crops for all units in the
first two stages of development, to three different systems in the last stage. At this stage, most of the units
are considered as adopting more diversified and specialized crop rotations, and only 20% of the units still
producing some proportion of traditional rainfed crops. This assumed evolution implies an improved
performance by the technical assistance services, enhanced entrepreneurial and irrigated production
abilities by small farmers, as well as improved access to financing of production and investment costs
which was an ongoing problem at the time of project completion.
The assumed evolution of the settlement process shown in Table III-2 is based on actual data until project
closing, and projected thereafter. The projected settlement may differ from the actual settlement due to
problems encountered by entrepreneurs in accessing financing for the required productive investments. As
indicated in the table, the analysis assumes an average 5% of idle land, and by the time the area under
cultivation stabilizes in 2007, 62% (14,737 ha) would be cultivated by family units, 25% (5,937 ha) by
small entrepreneurs and 13% (3,081 ha) by medium entrepreneurs. At full development, the total net
cultivated area of 23,755 ha could yield an overall annual production of some half million tons of produce
by 2007, 67% of which would be contributed by the family units. Achieving this level of production would
- 27 -



require a 1.45 cropping intensity, a value higher than what could actually be observed in many of the
project areas at the time of project completion.
Table III-2 Evolution of the settlement process
Year              Units                         Area
(cumulative amount)      (net cum. irrigated bectares)
Family Entrepreneurs  Total Family Entrepreneurs  Total
Units  20 ha  50 ha          Units  20 ha  50 ha
1988     361                   361   482                     482
1989     412                   412  1,903                  1,903
1990     499                   499  2,719                  2,719
1991     525 __      =_     X  525  3.253                  3,253
1992     555           -       555  3,287               _3287
1993     555           -       555  3,939                  3,939
1994     555           -       555  4,194 -                4,194
1995     681                   681  4,092                  4,092-
1996     802      51     37    890  4,382                  4,382
1997    1,184    180     46  1,410  8,550    147    226  8,923
1998    1,284    180     46  1,510  9,272    220    340  9,832
1999    1,352    180     46  1,578  9,758  1,037    563  11,358
2000    1,423    217     53  1,693  10,275  2,487  1,460  14,222
2001    1,499    217     53  1,769 10,822  3,884  2,335  17,041
2002    1,578    217     53  1,848 11,392  4,933  2,736  19,062
2003    1,661    217     53  1,931  11,993  5,592  2,990 20,574
2004    1,749    217     53  2,019  12,631  5,884  3,060 21,575
2005    1,841    217     53  2,111  13,292  5,937  3,081  22,311
2006    1,939    217     53  2,209  13,999  5,937  3,081 23,018
2007-12  2,041    217      53  2,311  14,737  5,937  3,081  23,755
Notes:
a) Family lots: a 5% idle coefficient applied (non-settled lots).
b) Entrepreneur lots: varying idle coefficients applied
Economic rate of return
Aside from the above-mentioned assumptions regarding production systems and the settlement process, the
main parameters utilized in the analysis to re-estimate the ERR The economic and financial analyses were
conducted at completion and reflect prices as of December 31, 2000. include:
*    Length of period of base analysis: 25 years
*    Replacement period for on-farm irrigation equipment: 12 years.
*    Replacement period for groves: 13 years for perennial fruit-trees; 6 years for banana; 3 years
for papaya and passionfruit.
*    Farm-gate prices: ten-year average values expressed in constant 12/98 US$, taken from  the
average monthly prices quoted by CEASA-MG for fruits, and the SIMA system of the
Ministry of Agriculture as well as local prices reported by the Technical Assistance provider
PLENA.
*    Crop budgets: as supplied by the TA provider.
*    Price of water (K2): US$ 0,005 /m 3as provided by DIJ.
*    Off-farm   annual maintenance  costs  (K2, common  irrigation  infrastructure): US$50/ha.
Replacement not considered.
*    On-farm   annual maintenance  costs: 3.0  %   of total irrigation  investments estimated  at
US$2,000/ha. Complete replacement of on-farm irrigation systems after the 12th year.
- 28 -



* Conversion factors for economic prices: (a) labor = .750; (b) equipment = .677; (c) equipment
installation; (d) maintenance and repair costs = .570; (e) civil works = .621; (f) on-farm
investments = .647; and (g) production costs =.722
Results
As shown in Table 111-3, the re-estimated ERR, keeping a 25-year period of analysis (1988-2012) as in the
appraisal document, is 19% and the NPV for an 11% discount rate is US$28.3 million (base 1988=0); both
were calculated considering all project costs in the cost stream. The ERR compares favorably to both the
14% rate estimated during appraisal, which excluded the costs of the studies and applied research activities
from the cost stream in the calculation, and the 12% equivalent rate resulting when those costs are
considered. The estimated NPV is almost 8 times larger than that projected at appraisal (US$3.7 million).
As in the appraisal document, the economic measures only take into consideration benefits derived from
increased agricultural production, and do not account for other (spillover) benefits derived from activities
linked to educational, health and environmental areas. Table III-A6 in the Appendix shows the amounts of
Gross Incremental Benefits involved along with Total Incremental Costs and Net Incremental Benefits.
The corresponding financial rate of return is 17%, with an NPV of US$31.4 million (base 1988=0); no
financial rate of return and NPV were calculated at appraisal. By and large, despite a poorer actual
physical and financial implementation performance and development profile, differences in relative prices
and a smaller share of lower profit crops in the production mix considered at full project development
should account for the better overall results portrayed by the economic measures.
Table III-3: Cost Benefit Analysis
(values in million US$, 1988=0)
Present Value of flows
Economic Analysis    Financial Analysis
.   Appraisal    Latest    Appraisal    Latest
. ________  Estimate               Estimate
Benefits           n/a       104.1  _     na       144.2
Costs              n/a       76.3         n/a      110.0
IRR(%)           11.59"      19.0         n/a       16.8
NPV               0.9w1)     28.3         n/a       31.4
Length of period of analysis: 25 years (1988-2012)
Discount rate: 11%
") IRR and NPV in SAR are 13.6% and US$3.7 million. Those presented
in the chart have bee adjusted to account for full project costs.
A serisitivity analysis was carried out to compare how stable project results could turn out to be under this
base scenario in comparison to appraisal estimates. It was calculated that estimated project results are
more stable than appraisal estimates, with switching values of 40%  for gross incremental benefits, and
66% for total incremental costs, compared to appraisal values of -23% and 29% respectively. A mapping
of the sensitivity was also carried out (Table III-4) and the results indicate that, although slightly more
sensitive to drops in benefits, the re-estimated rate of return remains stable up to a simultaneous 17%
increase in project costs and drop in benefits (43% for costs alone; and -30% for benefits alone).
- 29 -



Table III-4: Project Sensitivity Analysis: ERRs (el)
Benefits
+20% | +10%  Same  -10%  -20%
+20%   20   17   15   12   10
+10% -    r23   20   17   14   12
Same   26   23   19   17   14
J  -tO%;  31   27   23   20   17
-20%   38   32   28   24   20
However, two issues must be borne in mind when analyzing these results. First, additional simulations
show that if the projected increases in yields and cropping intensity do not materialize, and cropping
intensity stays at the low value recorded at the time of project closing, the rate of return may fall as low as
16% (with a NPV of US$13.7 million). On the other hand, the rate of return may reach as high as 21%
(with a NPV of US$47.7 million) if cropping intensity steadily rises from its low at the time of project
closing to a maximum of 1.5 by the time of full project development in 2007. Second, beyond the
comparison between appraisal estimates and latest estimates following similar methodologies, attention
should be given to estimates carried out under other assumptions.  For example, given that the
infrastructure investments considered are largely on-farm investments, prior off-farm general infrastructure
investments were considered as sunk costs and not included in the analysis, it can be argued that the period
of analysis covered in the SAR may not be considered the most adequate. From this point of view, a
shorter 20-year period of analysis may be considered more appropriate. Following this approach, and
using a customary 12% rate of discount, the rate of return for the base-case scenario would fall slightly
below 16% and NPV would only amount to US$8.3 million.
The economic and financial analyses were conducted at completion and reflect prices as of December 31, 2000.
- 30 -



Appendix - Annex 3
Table III -Al: Evolution of the prevalent irrigation systems
by t;ype offarm
Year    Family Units()  Entrepreneurs(1'
F I CS  MS  F   CS MS
1988        401   60            =    _=
1989        20     80
1990        101   90 -          __ -          ___
1991        10     90_
1992        10     90   -                  _
i993              100
1994              loo
1995              100
1996              100     _              -
1997              lo_  0                  90      10
1998               95       5             50     50
1999               90      10             30     70
2000        _      85      15         _          lo
2001   _           80      20                    100
2002               70      30                    100
2003               60      40   -                1oo
2004               50      50                    100
2005               4S      55   -                100
2006               40      60                    100
2007-12                                           inn30  70  __  100
of adoption in %
F - furrow irrig.; CS - conv. Sprinklers; MS - micro-
sprinkler/drip
Table III -A2: Production systems by type of unit and stage
Farm                System                  Crop types                Specific Crops
Type        Summary   Sequence    Summer              Winter       Summer         Winter
5 ha         THFt          T H            T            H            Corn         Onions
'88- '91                     H Ft           H             Ft         Onions    Watermelon
5 ha         BHFtT          B                 Banana                      Banana
'92 - '96                    H Ft           H           Ft           Onions    Watermelon
T            T               .--------- Corn        -
5 ha         BHFpl          B                 Banana                      Banana
'97- '12                     H H            H       [     H        Ind. Tomato]   Onions
Fp I                Fp, I               Mango/Lime, Beans
BOH           B                 Banana                      Banana
0 H           H           Onicons    Ind. Tomato    Onions
HTFpl        HH             H             H        Ind. Tomato    Onions
T            T           ------        Corn    _=
___________     Fp I                 Fp, I           _       Guava, Beans
20 ha       BFpIFtH          B                Banana                      Banana
Fp I                FD, I                   Lime, Beans
Ft H          H              Ft         Onions   I Watermelon
BFpIBeH         B                 Banana                      Banana
Fp I                Fp, I                  Man o,Beans
._____________              Fe H         Beans           H    =      Beans        Onions
50 ha        BFpFpl          B                Banana                      Banana
.  Fp               Fp                        Papaya
Fp  I               p,Man   Beans
BFpFpl         B          Banana                     tBanana
FpI                 Fp, I                 Coconuts, Beans
FD                  Fp                     Passion fruit
____________ ____   Fp I             Fp, I                  Guava, Beans
T - Traditional rainfed crops              H - Horticultural crops
Ft - Fruit trees (temporary)               Fp - Fruit trees (permanent)
B - Banana                                 0 - Onions
I - Interstitial crop                     Be - Beans
- 31 -



Table III -A3: Evolution of the area ('000 ha) under cultivation
by type of unit and production system
Year              5 ha units             20 ha units  50 ha units Total
THFt BHRT  BOH  BHFpl HTFpl BFplFtH BFplBeH BfpFpl BFpFpl
_   7 7 r  =   7     7777 77 7     7 ..   
1988      0.5             _: :                       :     :              0.5
1989      1.9                                                             1.9
1990      2.7  ::                                                         2.7
1991      3.3                               :                             3.3
1992   :        3.3:                                                      3.3
1993            3.9         :                              -              3.9
1994            4.2  _.....2....                                          42
1995            4.1                                            ___        4.1
1996            44                                             __4_       44
1997                   1.8   4.7   2.0      0.0     0.1    0.2   0.0    8.9
1998                   1.9   5.1   2.2    0.1       0.2   0.3   0.1       9.8
1999                   2.0   5.4   2.3      0.3     0.8   0.5   0.1    11.4
2000                   2.2   5.7   2.4    0.7       1.8   1.2   0.2   14.2
2001                   2.3   6.0   2.6    1.1       2.8    1.9   0.4   17.0
2002                   2.4   6.3   2.8      1.3     3.6   2.3   0.5   19.1
2003       V2.5   6.6   2.8                 1.5     4.1    2.5   0.5   20.6
2004 -    :            2.7   7.0   3.0      1.6     4.3    2.6   0.5   21.6
2005                   2.8   7.3   3.1      1.6     4.3    2.6   0.5   22.3
2006                   2.9   7.7   3.3      1.6     4.3    2.6   0.5   23.0
2007-12                  3.0   8.1   3.5     1.6     4.3    2.6   0.5   23.8
T - Traditional rainfed crops          H - Horticultural crops
Ft - Fruit trees (temporary)           Fp - Fruit trees (permanent)
B -Banana                              0 -Onion
I - Interstitial crop                  Be - Beans
Table III -A4: On and Off Farm Investments Considered
By Farm Type
CATEGORIES           Period      ON FARM (US$farm)            OFF
________  _______   r_____    Sha    20Oha    50ha    FARM
Initial    Settlement   1988     3,220
Investment               89/98      (a)                           (a)
99/07     3,220  S  i   iii-  ::.;+-E::: : :   :E.::::
Works      1988      3,220   g:   :0j       ;:j-:g:yi  f0D :j$;--j  
89/9S    3,220  ;: _7777 ; ttin<00000    b
99/07    3,220    10,736   21,472    :-E  jA
Equipment   1988       4,294  t:-<:: Wtii00 :   tQ 
89/98  16,441-
99/07    10,736   48,312   118,096
Replacement   Works        1988
Operation &    Works    18988      4.::7:tXz ::...s:-ss:::s;0s: 0 .   :,t0
Maintenance        ~89/98 
99/07   ij:    4 .s  2::ii-0i/f#i  .g:  ::j:; 4i::;g:0i
Equipment   1988       .s'      pe year. 
89/98     =
99/07         Integral in year 13
MPaintaeinan ce   Wrs     89 98                  l                CAS
E quip me nt   19899            p8 y CA 
NOTEs:
(CAS) -   CODEVASF Accounting System
(a)   -   recorded as "Irrigation Distnct Operational Expenses" in CAS
(b)   -   in CAS investments are recorded along with replacemnent, operation and maintenance
- 32 -



Table III -A 5: Main production parameters by crop
Product          Maximum  yield           Maximum  area              Average Cost             Average Price
(ton ha)()                 (ha) (1)            (US$/h a/yr) (2)            (US$/ton) (2)
5 ha lots  20-50 ha lots  5 ha lots  20-50 ha lots  5 ha lots  20-50 ha lots Farm gate   Wholesale
Beans     2.1                      2,521       2,131         514           -          456          608
Corn      5                       2,477         -           322                      105          140
Industrial tomato   60           -          2,521          -          I 613         -           43           43
Onions     30           35         2,521        1,113        1895         3733         322          495
Watermelon      26            -          572          247          853         1710         168          258
Papaya     40           45          4- 28                                 1,836        350          538
Passion fruit   18           -            -           76           -.         3,033         952         1,464
Banana      20          25          4,265       3,043       1148         1,785        396          528
Coconut      16           18          -.           76          -.           960         455          700
Guava      20          24           776          76         1.371        1,157        875         1,346
Lime      25          30           873         247         2,061        2,143        378          581
Mango      21           25          873         1,582      1  ,573      1  ,730        448          689
' Yield and area values sbown are the maximum utilized for estimation purposes. Yields showni do not reflect average production values for multi-year
crops, and area values may or may not correspond with the areas sown once the production systems stabilize.
(2) Costs and prices are expressed in constant 1998 US$. Costs shown are the average over the life-span of the crop. Prices are the average pnices over the
1989-1999 period.
Table III -A6: Total Net Incremental Beneflts*
Year    Gross Inc.   Off-farm         On-farm        Total          Total
Benefits    Investment  Investment   Inc. Costs    Net Inc. Ben.
1988            1,096         1,931        2,845         4,776         (3,680)
1989            4,124         5,421        1,626         7,046         (2,922)
1990            5,591         7,112        2,311         9,423         (3,832)
1991            6,418         5,692        2,039         7,731         (1,313)
1992            5,653         7,917        2,346        10,263         (4,610)
1993            8,710         8,677        2,415        11,092         (2,381)
1994           10,360        11,571        2,498        14,069         (3,709)
1995           10,607       24,853         3,319        28,172        (17,565)
1996           10,829        24,549        9,223        33,772        (22,944)
1997           18,317        11,407       17,638        29,045        (10,729)
1998           28,034         5,025        9,889        14,914          13,120
1999           38,966         6,283       13,721        20,005          18,961
2000           47,420         4,596       18,842        23,439         23,982
2001           62,113         1,718       19,490        21,207         40,906
2002           76,512         1,723       22,086        23,809         52,703
2003           87,442         1,730       23,676        25,406         62,035
2004           92,361         1,740       25,030        26,770         65,591
2005           91,069         1,747       25,717        27,464         63,605
2006           98,490         1,758       26,464        28,222         70,268
2007          101,158         1,765       28,242        30,007          71,151
2008           97,306         1,578       32,175        33,753         63,553
2009           97,547         1,578       34,517        36,095         61,452
2010          100,946         1,578       27,323        28,901          72,045
2011          103,443         1,578       26,968        28,546          74,897
2012           71,689         1,578       22,414        23,992          47,697
* Economic values expressed in US$ '000 (1988=0)
Net Present Va]ue at 11% 0CC : US$28.3 million
Internal Rate of Return      :19.0%
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle           t04    No. of Persons and Spciatyd              Performanc      j
(e.::0V;7 0 0000 0                        meng. 2 Ecomsts, 1 MS, etc.)  emetatin Devem
:Month/Y:0ear    Cout          Spcialty                       Progress      Objetve 
Identification/Preparation
2/85                         1   IrrEng
6/85                         3   Agric, IrrigEng, Econ
11/85                        2   IrrigEng, Op Off
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/86                         1   Agric
9/86                             n/a
2/87                         3   Agric, IrrEng, InstDev
5/87                         2   Op Off, IrrEng
9/87                         3   Op Off, Agric, WatResMgmt
1-2/88                       5   Op Off, Agric, IrrEng, InstDev
Supervision
5/89                         1   IrrEng                              S             HS
9-10/89                      1   IrrEng                              S             HS
4/90                         1   IrrEng                              U              S
10/90                        1   IrrEng                              U              S
2-3/91                       1   IrrEng                              U              S
6/91                         2   IrrEng, Agric                       U              S
10/91                        1   IrrEng,                             S              S
6-7/92                       2   IrrEng, Agric                       S              S
10-11/92                     1   IrrEng,                             S              S
3-4/93                       1   IrrEng,                             S              S
4/94                         1   IrrEng,                             S              S
10/94                        1  WatResMgrnt                          S              S
1/95                         3   Agric, AgEc, WatResMgmt             S              S
5-6/95                       2   IrrEng, WatResMgmt                  S              S
8/95                         2   IrrEng, WatResMgmt                  S             HS
12/95                        1   WatResMgmt                          S             HS
5/96                         1   WatResMgmt                           S            HS
6/96                         1   WatResMgmt                          S              S
6/97                         1   WatResMgmt                          S             HS
7/98                         1   WatResMgmt                          S             HS
4/99                         2   WatResMgmt, Finan                   S              S
12/99                        1  WatResMgmt                           S              S
2/00                         1   WatResMgmt                           S             S
4/00                         1   WatResMgmt                           S             S
ICR
- 34 -



(b) Staff
I    Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               74.5                        159.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                    33.3                         84.7
Supervision                              93.9                        236.6
ICR                                        0.2                        32.9
Total                                   206.7                        513.2
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Ln Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Physical                              *H OSUOM ON ONA
El Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Ol Environmental                         0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
O Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
L Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
E Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
E Supervision                                       OHS OS   OU   OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS   O U  O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S  O U  0 HU
OII Implementation agency performance               O HS OS   O U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS 0 U 0 HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*  Relat6rio de PNs-avaliagao do Projeto Jaiba - Acordo de Emprestimo N' 3013 - BR - CODEVASF -
Abril-2000;
*  Relat6rio de Pos-avaliacio do Projeto Jaiba - Acordo de Ernprestirno No 3013 - BR - CODEVASF -
Novembro-1999;
*  Nivel de Satisfacao dos Pequenos Produtores com o Perimetro Irrigado, com a CODEVASF e com os
servicos prestados, CODEVASF, outubro-99;
*  Relat6rio N° 39 - 10 Trimestre de 2000 - CODEVASF;
*  Relat6rios "Perimetro de Irrigagao Jaiba" - CODEVASF - I' Superintend8ncia Regional - Montes
Claros - MG, julho/99 e julho/2000;
*  Relat6rio de Anilise dos Empreendedores sobre Avaliacao Socio-Econ6rnica e Ambiental do Projeto
Jaiba elaborado pela DAM - Projetos de Engenharia, CODEVASF, Brasilia - maio/1 995;
*  Relat6rios de Operacao e Manutencao da USOM/DIJ, anos 1995-1999;
*  Projeto de Irrigacao do Jaiba - Parecer dos Auditores Independentes - Acordo de Ernprestirno 3013/BR
(exercicio - 1999) - LS AUDITORES INDEPENDENTES S/C;
*  JAiBA Transcric6es das Entrevistas feitas com Colonos - 21 e 22 de setembro de 1998;
*  Governo do Estado de Minas Gerais - SEPLAN-MG - Projeto Jaiba (Sintese dos Investimentos
Realizados) UCGP - Agosto/1996;
*  Integracao Nacional, CODEVASF, la Superintendencia Regional - Montes Claros - MG, Julho-99;
*  Diagn6stico Socio-economico do perimetro irrigado do Projeto Jaiba, Universidade Estadual de Montes
Claros - UNIMONTES, Abril-99;
  Plano Basico de Trabalho de Assist8ncia T6cnica e Extensao Rural - 2000 - Projeto Jaiba - Etapa 1,
PLENA -Consultoria de Engenharia Agricola Ltda, janeiro/00;
*  Servicos de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural aos Produtores do projeto Jaiba - Etapa 1, Relat6rio
Trimestral (04 - 06/00), PLENA - Consultoria de Engenharia Agricola Ltda, julho/00;
*  Relat6rio de Acoes e Resultados da Assistencia T&enica e Extensao Rural e do Gerenciamento da
Producao no ano de 1999 e no periodo 1989/99 - Projeto Jaiba- Etapa 1 - PLENA -Consultoria de
Engenharia Agricola Ltda, Contrato DIJ/ PLENA - 0 10-0097/00;
*  Parecer tecnico FEAM / DICAF/ N° 012/98 de 13/03/98;
*  Proyecto Jaiba-Analisis Operacional, 1996;
*   A9ces e Resultados da Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural e do Gerenciamento da Producao Projeto
Jaiba - Etapa 1 - Periodo 1988 a 1996; PLENA -Consultoria de Engenharia Agricola Ltda, Contrato
DIJ/ PLENA - 01/06/88;
*  Resumo das Principais Ac5es e Resultados do Gerenciamento da Producao e Assist8ncia Tecnica e
Extensao Rural - Projeto Jalba- Etapa 1 - Periodo 1988 a 1994; PLENA -Consultoria de Engenharia
Agricola Ltda, Contrato DIJ/ PLENA - 01/06/88;
*  Resumo das Principais A96es e Resultados do Gerenciamento da Producao e Assistencia Tecnica e
Extensao Rural - Projeto Jaiba- Etapa 1 - Periodo 1988 a 1993; PLENA -Consultoria de Engenharia
Agricola Ltda, Contrato DIJ/ PLENA - 01/06/88;
*  Monitoramento dos Ambientes Aquaticos e da Dinarnica e Qualidade das Aguas Subterrineas,
Relat6rio Final 1991-1995, Distrito de Irrigacao do Jaiba - la Etapa, CODEVASF.
- 38 -



Additional Annex 8. Partner Comments
Comments and Recommendations from the Implementing A ency - CODEVASF
Unforeseen Activities
The systematic monitoring of the Loan, both by World Bank staff and by executing agency staff, made it
possible to identify the need to modify the legal instrument to include services and tasks that were not
originally foreseen. This was done satisfactorily through a set of actions such as: the introduction of the
fruit production program; applied agricultural research; creation and strengthening of the irrrigation
district; structuring of the marketing process, among others. These activities significantly contributed to
reducing the likelihood of project failure and made it possible to consolidate a large part of the processes of
the productive chain without which farmers in general and small irrigators in particular would have faced a
higher probability of failure.
Future Prospects
Since the project's main hydraulic infrastructure was already built with an overall delivery capacity to
supply water to 100% of the area scheduled to be irrigated (100,000 ha), the sustainability of this
undertaking is dependent upon at least the conclusion and operation of Phase II and, ideally, the
construction and operation of Phase III.
It is expected that the Jaiba Irrigation District would be consolidated and self-sustainable only after the full
irrigated area developed in the first phase achieved full production, which should occur in a relatively short
period when the perennial crops already planted achieve the stage of economic production.
Within the production chain, farmers' organizations should place emphasis on the marketing process and
should also make efforts to conclude the marketing and commercialization infrastructure initiated and
partially completed with resources from the loan.
Due to the expected high volume of production and considering that most of it will be from fruit growing, it
is necessary to attract new investors to implement agro-industry aimed at optimizing the use of production
and to seek new markets.
Experiences with IBRD
The international technical cooperation supported and financed by the Loan Agreement was important as it
offered CODEVASF technical staff the possibility to acquire new knowledge and to expand learning in the
various areas covered by the loan, ranging from engineering to social issues.
A second positive aspect which also represented a challenge at first was the establishment of a work routine
with the implementation of all phases needed to complete a work, ranging from the execution of basic
studies, feasibility studies and basic design to the executive engineering and technical design of the project'
s systems.
In the procurement areas two mai, positive aspects should be highlighted from the partnership with the
IBRD: (a) greater agility in bids stemming from the standardization of bidding documents and the
establishment of rules. This also facilitated and streamlined decisions; and (b) greater participation and
competitiveness in bidding processes through international bidding for larger projects.
- 39 -



Lessons Learned
Period of Implementation
CODEVASF's experience in the implementation of this particular project as well as other irrigation
projects financed by multilateral organizations, shows that the implementation of works consumes nearly
the entire implementation period, leaving very little time for the achievement of the greater objectives which
are the settlement of families, the start-up of the operation, and agricultural production per se. We
recommend that implementation periods be carefully evaluated during the future preparation of other
agreements to minimize this deficiency.
Resources/Fees
Resources aimed at agricultural development are applied only after works are implemented, and therefore
the commitment of financial amounts, with the consequent payment of commitment fees, should be
differentiated so that those resources allocated for agricultural development are released for the application
and charging of fees after the period needed for the implementation of works according to a predetermined
timetable.
Components and Disbursement Categories
Activities such as the fruit production program; applied agricultural research; creation and strengthening of
the irrigation district; structuring of the marketing process and agricultural credit process, which are
essential for the success of the project, should be contemplated in some specific component and/or
disbursement category of new loans focusing on the implementation of irrigation projects.
Credit
Project's sustainability following implementation is dependent upon on-farn production-oriented
investments. In this regard, during the preparation of future loans emphasis should be placed on means to
secure resources for this purpose. Funds may be secured directly from the loan or through some type of a
Government commitment clause in the legal documents.
Comments from the State of Minas Gerais Secretariat of Planning - SEPLAN/MG
This note was prepared at the request of the World Bank and is divided into two parts: the first presents
suggestions for similar, future projects, based on the experience of the Jaiba Project; the second discusses
the involvement of the State of Minas Gerais in Phase I of the project. Due to limnited space for this annex,
we will not present the work of the Government of Minas Gerais in the implementation of Phase II of the
Jai'ba Project, but rather we will limit our comments to Phase I.
First of all, we wish to express our thanks to the World Bank for having financed so many development
projects in Brazil, particularly Phase I of the Jaiba Project. We believe that, although we may have
differences of opinion with regard to the State's role in the economy, the joint work by the State of Minas
Gerais and the Bank will continue to bear considerable benefits for the Minas Gerais and Brazilian
population, especially for the neediest sectors of the population. This is because, despite differences of
opinion, we share the objective of focusing primarily on the development of the poor.
With regard to the Implementation Completion Report, its analysis needs no changes. The Report is well
written, concise, objective and impartial, strictly analyzes the most important points and deals competently
with the positive and negative aspects. Thus, it would be redundant to discuss what is already presented by
the report. We would like to add just a few conceptual suggestions for the Bank's work in future projects
of this type.
- 40 -



1.    From the outset, a project of this type should be seen as one of regional development, not just as a
work of engineering, which will resolve problems by itself when it is ready to be delivered to market;
2.     Developing countries are very unstable, economically and politically, and their infrastructure is
fraught with social debts and fragility. Thus, governments usually do not manage to maintain a coherent
medium- and long-term line of investments, due to political and social pressures coming from all sides. In
general, political authorities place a great deal of attention on the work itself but less after its inauguration.
Thus, financing for projects such as that of Jaiba should contain earmarked resources for areas that are
traditionally less sensitive to political power and which need support after works are completed, such as
environment, technical assistance, technological development, marketing infrastructure, etc.;
3.     With regard to credit, due to the economic instability and the characteristics of agricultural
production, especially on account of the relatively high costs of irrigation investments, particularly for
small irrigators, Bank financing should consider specific resources for the set-up of, for example, a "Credit
Fund." This "Fund" would have loan conditions compatible with each type of irrigator (small-, medium-
and large-scale) in terms of interest rates and grace periods and amortization schedule. Furthermore, the
credit should be for an amount that covers all the investor's needs. Starting with initial funding, the "Fund"
would work with returns, promoting solidarity among its beneficiaries;
4.     The definitive registry of land titling, after land is occupied, should be a condition for project
start-up. This condition promotes better use of land and a quicker inclusion of the irrigator in the market,
providing the chance for the land to be utilized by farmers who adapt best to the agricultural mercantile
process; and
5.    It is essential that there be a forum for project monitoring, even after works are completed and
small, non-bureaucratic farmers are settled in, in which there is representation by all levels of government
(federal, state, municipal) and by representatives of irrigators. In the case of the Bank should participate,
at least, as an observer.
We shall present below a brief retrospective of the participation of the Government of Minas Gerais in
Phase I of the Jaiba Project.
Performance of the State ofMinas Gerais in Phase I of the Jaiba Project
The Jaiba Project originated in 1966 through the initiative of the State of Minas Gerais, with the
support of the "Fundaqdo Rural Mineira" (RURALMINAS) and of the PLANORDESTE Program.
Partnership with CODEVASF, in 1975, and this organization's partnership with the World Bank beginning
in 1988, enabled the project to be implemented. The implementation of Phase II of the project, which is
expected to be concluded in 2001, should be considered a continuation of these efforts.
The State of Minas Gerais contributed towards facilitating the occupation of 310,000 hectares of
land in the Jaiba region, through the construction of roads and electrical, sanitation, communication, health,
education and community support systems. This performance attests to the importance that the State
places on the project as an instrument of regional development and an economic activity that can improve
the quality of life in that vast region of Northern Minas Gerais.
The performance of the Government of Minas Gerais was coordinated by the State Secretariat of
Planning and General Coordination (SEPLAN/SUDENOR), with field efforts carried out by the
RURALMINAS. Also noteworthy was the involvement of other state agencies according to their
functions.
Under this institutional organizational structure, the Slate of Minas Gerais is participating in the
implementation of the Integrated Regional Development Program - Jaiba Project Phase I - without any
specific external financing that would facilitate its efforts as fully as the undertaking requires. Human and
- 41 -



financial resources used by the State Minas Gerais in the areas of education, health, sanitation,
transportation, communication and community support, are provided by the State Treasury.
For these reasons, some of the State's actions in the project are not done as quickly as necessary,
and require more time for execution, since they are linked to the availability of money from the State
Treasury which are not always in line with project demands.
Even so, the State of Minas Gerais is fulfilling its role in the partnership established with
CODEVASF, although not as smoothly as we would like, by means of:
1.    support to small irrigators in the social and production areas, through the PAPP I Program, with
investrnents of US$2.25 million;
2.    another US$3.71 million were applied for works and efforts to strengthen basic social
infrastructure in the areas of education, health, transportation, communications and community assistance;
3.    asphalting of the MG-401 highway, the project's main road, in the section of the city of
Jaiba/Mocambinho, where US$5.5 million were spent;
4.    the Minas Gerais Development Bank - BDMG - supports the settlement of 68 medium-scale
irrigators in village G2 of the Jaiba Project. This support, through the operations of the Jaiba Regional
Development Fund, with funds from the Loan Agreement between the State and JBIC, represents the
application of financial resources totaling US$9.92 million on fixed investments and agricultural costs in
the establishment of lots and formation of croplands;
5.    in addition, those of an institutional, organizational, managerial and physical nature, aimed at
resolving environmental issues, especially to deal with 52 environmental conditions imposed upon
participants, due to the awarding of the license for installation of Phase I.
In any case, in our opinion the Jaiba Project is already a success. When the other phases are fully
operational, this observation will be even truer, since it will transform one of the poorest regions in Minas
Gerais and of Brazil into one of the richest in the State. Evidently - like any project of this size, in an
extremely poor region lacking prospects until just a few years ago, in an economically and politically
unstable country, and with one of the world's worst distributions of income -, the Jaiba Project has
numerous problems and challenges, but nothing can be overcome unless there is willingness and reasonably
adequate institutional and financial organization.
Finally, it is right to highlight the fact that much of the success achieved to date is due to the
performance of World Bank staff who worked in the project.
-42 -



Additional Annex 9. Social Data
Table 1 - Data on Health, Education and Social Services
HEALTH (Infrastructure and Health Resources)
Health Care Centers                                        _44
_~~~~~~~~~
Doctors      _                                              2                6 6               2
Health Agents                                               4 _7
Nurses                                                      I __I                              2
Dentistry                                                   2
Dentists                                                    2                1
Health Assistant                                            9 _10
Pharmnacist Assistant                                       2
X-ray Technician                                             _        
Laboratory Assistant                                                         3
Beds                                                                        30
Biochemist                                                 _I
TOTALi            261               511               17
EDUCATION (Number of Students)                                        _
Kindergarten                                               56              N/A               100
Ist to 8th Grade                                        2325              N/A               1405
9th to I Ith Grade                                       461               N/A              N/A
TOTAL           2842               N/A              1505
SOCIAL SERVICE
Number of Schools                                           7]             N/Al             N/A
Number of Day Care Centers                                  4              N/A                 4
Number of Children in Day Care Centers                    357              N/A               300
-43 -



Table 2 - Amanha Project (DIJ) - Number of Trained Young Adults
~~rri~~ate~~l Agri~~~~dture ~280
eefro-n#ehai~        i: -                                              .,X ,,x108
EMemhS*;ies                                                             50
M*nt.eua3 ofEft~kP        0 --^13
25
............ Op...or          ^-jn .........10
A-cu1tw;  -- :X--gU 0  s:000> X .G/Cg855
w9d s'd"'-.50ffi-    -  ----- 20
W~~~r ai~~~~d Soil Handb ~~~~~~~15
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I R-
10
Maiei^ime,entm,                                                         105
=                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
A ~a      =                  = ifi20
14nd5ies of Sw~t~                                                   50
IkatthSeri~~~~~~~~~iees ~~~64
I-mwent  M~dioi~a  I                                                    40
Otk~~~r h~~ome  i~~~Aethd~~~fr~~                     181
Dak~~~~~~~~~~~ty ~~~~~~25
w:$ f{om=dL1ctio~   59
Sywit1g                5
-44 -



Additional Annex 10. Stakeholder Workshop Results
In December 2000, during ICR preparation, a stakeholder workshop was held to discuss the main results
and current status of project implementation, with objective of drawing lessons from past experience and
recommending future activities towards meeting a range of challenges facing the Jaiba Irrigation Project.
This Annex summarizes the main results from the workshop. A full report with copies from the
presentations is available in the project files.
Objective: The objective of the workshop was to conduct an assessment of project implementation in a
participatory manner.
Methodology: Project beneficiaries represented by the President of the Board and the Manager of the Jaiba
Irrigation District, (DIJ), and various associations of community leaders representing small and
medium-size irrigators living in the project area, were invited to the workshop to share their experiences,
main results and future perspectives in the project area. Other stakeholders, were also invited to make
formal presentations and participate in the open discussions, included: (i) the Federal Government,
represented by the Executing Agency, CODEVASF; the Special Secretariat of International Affairs
(SEAIN/MPO); the Secretariat of Water Resources (SRHIMMA); and Banco do Nordeste; (ii) the State
Government of Minas Gerais, represented by the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), the State's
Development Bank - Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais (BDMG), the Directorate for the
Development of the North of Minas Gerais (SUDENOR'), the Secretariat of Agriculture and
Cattle-Raising, the Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development, the Agricultural Research
Agency of Minas Gerais (EPAMIG), the State Forest Institute (IEF), and the Colonization and Rural
Development Foundation of the State of Minas Gerais (RURALMINAS); (iii) the Municipal Government,
represented by the Mayors of Jaiba and Matias Cardoso; (iv) the Workers Unions: National Agriculture
Worker's Confederation (CONTAG), Worker's Federation on the State of Minas Gerais (FETAEMG),
the Worker's Union of Jaiba, Matias Cardoso, Jarnauba and Manga; (v) Non-Governmental Agencies
(NGO's) represented by the Association for the Environment Defense of the State of Minas Gerais
(AMDA), Center of Alternative Ways for Agriculture of the of the North of Minas Gerais (CAA) and the
Land Institute of the State of Minas Gerais (Instituto de Terras de Minas Gerais); (vi) technical assistance
consultants (PLENA); (vii) the US Bureau of Reclamation; (viii) the Japan Bank for International
Cooperation (JBIC); and (ix) representatives from the World Bank.
Over 65 people attended the workshop ensuring representation of all major groups.
The workshop focused on two main issues: (i) discussion and analysis of project development impact with
respect to the implementation of the World Bank Loan 3013-BR; and (ii) an analysis of the implementation
process, future perspectives and main lessons that could be learned from the Jaiba experience.
Results: The workshop concluded successfully with many interesting and useful observations. Most of the
participants stayed until the very end and most of them participated in the debates and final remarks,
unfortunately time set the limit. Many expressed the view that this kind of workshop was useful and should
have been organized before, during project implementation. The open dialogue was extremely constructive
and the participants formed multi-disciplinary task forces to continue the dialogue focusing on specific
issues. This follow-on work was officially initiated in January 2001 and since then four meetings have
taken place. The SEPLAN/MG has taken on the lead and many practical results have already been derived
from this exercise.
The major impact of the project, as perceived by the direct beneficiaries is an overall improvement in the
-45-



quality of life of the irrigators and their families, including:
* Higher level of income;
* Possibility of improved housing;
*   Access to education, including technical training "Projeto Amanha";
* Access to health care;
* Appropriate solid waste management;
* Access to electricity;
* Access to potable water; and
*   Access to basic commercial services in the urban areas as well as in the project area.
Needs/constraints:
* To establish better communication channels and work closely with the governments to solve challenges
facing the project (partnership between Government, farmers and DIJ);
* Energy is the main problem related to the operation, tariffs are extremely high, and irrigators cannot
take advantage of price reductions because of the schedule of discounts is designed, primarily, for
urban areas;
* Regularization of land titling that could facilitate access to credit;
* Rural credit is certainly perceive as the main bottleneck especially for small irrigators- better terms
and higher credit limits are urgently needed;
* Commercialization is a key factor still subjected to many pitfalls;
i Need to attract and/or create agro-industries in the project area;
- Automation for the operation of hydraulic infrastructure is essential to reducing fix O&M costs;
- A guaranteed mechanism to facilitate access to credit;
* Road paving; and
i As the project grows and more irrigators are entering the area, improved security, becomes more
important.
Lessons learned:
- The maturation period is longer than anticipated especially when it involves the settlernent of families -
it is estimated that 2 to 3 years were necessary to bring farmers to production phase;
A Appropriate lines of credit and availability of credit is crucial not only for investments but for
operating costs specially at the beginning;
* There is a high operating cost, due to over-dimensioned infrastructure, in the case of Jaiba the future
success of the district will depend on the possibility of expanding it with subsequent phases (e.g. Jaiba
II and III);
* Creation and consolidation of associations of irrigators are extremely important; and
* Access to commercialization and marketing is a requirement to consolidate its sustainability in the long
run.
-46 -



43'50'                                         43'40B
BRAZIL
4°A'30'                                                              B A H I A                                   14'30'  JAIBA IRRIGATION  PROJECT
0   51 10                                                                                                                            STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
KILOMETERS
PHASE I
Mangao                                                                                                                          ENVIRONMENTAL RESERVE
ROADS
PROJETO /                                                                                                  RIVERS
Matias CardOs                DSOMALIA /PISEATOI   SISAN   T                                                                       - - -    STATE BOUNDARIES
1 A'40                                                             -POO            TO       NI&A--140'-
14°40'!        agea a         ORIENTADO           O' BRAVO  1
D.  ado                     ~~~~~~~~This map was producedi by the Map Design unit of The worldi Bank.
GOEBA                       GABRIEL Da.o                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and anyother information shown
RTIA IPARnCUIAR ES IANDRADE   1       r                         on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
o    /                                                                                                       / / ~+ ! _Lv _ _ _ judgment on the legalstatus of any territory, or any endorsement or
GLEBA~~~~~~ETEGE   VALSA                             o~~~~~~~~cceptance of such boundaries.
S /d?v/ - ~~~~~GLEBA      E - G VALSAS 
PARTICULAR-------                                                       RB. de LGUYANA- -
VENEZUELA) rn  I-' (GU>I
/  -    f> ;   SUR. \(F, l     C
COLOMBIA         R    NI                /           Atlcontic  Ocean
&7    AMAjAMA
Cl, C4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,- T
14'50                                                                           14'50       ,.k.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMAZONA  PARA
L.A.fR ~  kRONDOI   MATOBAI
PERU                 ~~~GROSSO
BOLIVIA  ~                   OA
/ IGROSS                              T
Serraria                                                                                   L~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LDOL'
j~~ ? W rd~ erd e;:.                C ~ I L E I        PA R A G U   Y >     L O.            D E A E R
I4,ILE                 I.r'
L-./qSANATA CATARINA
-15'OO0oa0ib                                                                                                      15'OO'  ~                                 "P SL                 At lantic Oceain        a
0                          A~~~~~~3'50'                                   4A3'40                                                                    IRQA
01                                                                                                                                   W  RU W   AY                                   ol~~__ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _



