Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
AM
Report No. 7371-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 27, 1988
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of August 31, 1988)
Currency Unit   -  Brazilian Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00         =  Cz$288.55
CZ$1.O0         =  US$O.00347
Cz$l million    =  US$3,470
WEIGHTS AND HEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil - January 1 to December 31
Project                =  January 1 to December Si



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY ',F ACRONYMS
BB           - Banco do Brazil
(Bank of Brazil)
CEMIG        - Companhia Energetica de Minas Gerais
(Minas Gerais Electric Company)
CETEC        - Funda,co Centro Tecnol6gico de Minas Gerais
(Technological Center of Minas Gerais)
CNPMS        - Centro Nacional de Pesquisa para Milho e Sorgo
(National Research Center for Maize and Sorgo)
CODEVASF     - Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sso Francisco
(So Francisco River Valley Development Company)
CONAHA       - Conselho Nacional do Meio Ambiente
(National Environmental Council)
DNOCS        - Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought Works)
DNOS         - Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento
(National Department of Sanitary Works)
IMBRAPA      - Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Agricultural Research Agency of Brazil)
EPAMIG       - Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Minas Gerais
(Agricultural Research Agency of Minas Gerais)
FAO          - Food and Agriculture Organization
FAO/CP       - FAO/WORLD BANK Cooperative Program
FSESP        - Fundn,ao de Servi,os de Sa%de P%blica
(Pub.ic Health Services Foundation)
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
IEF          - Instituto Estadual Florestal
(Forestry State Institute of Minas Gerais)
JID          - Jaiba Irrigation District
LCB          - Local Competitive Bidding
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Glossary of Acronyms (cont.)
MIRAD        - Ministerio da Reforma e do Desenvolvimento Agrario
(Ministry of Agrarian P.eform and Agricultural Development)
PMID         - Plan Mineiro de Irriga,fo e Drenagem
(Plan of Minas Gerais for Irrigation and Drainage)
PROINE       - Programa de Irriga,ao para o Nordeste
(Irrigation Program for the Northeast)
PRONI        - Programa Nacional de IrrigagIo
(National Irrigation Program)
RIMA         - Relat6rio do Impacto sobre o Meio Ambiente
(Environmental Impact Statement)
RURALMINAS   - Fundac,8o Rural Hineira de Colonizasao e Desenvolvimento Agrario
(Foundation for Settlement and Rural Development of Minas Gerais)
SA           - Special Account
SUCAM        - SuperintendOncia de Campanhas de Sa6de P6iblica
(Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns)



BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AhD PROJECT SUMMARY .......................1.........                 I
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.                                                    3
Agriculture in the National Economy              . . .                     3
The Rural Northeast. . .                                                  3
Irrigation Developnment in the Northeast . ................               4
Past Bank Lending in the Agricultural Sector.                             4
III. THE PROJECT.                                                                6
A.  GENERAL ..............................................                6
Rationale for Bank Involvement              . . .                    6
Project Origin                        ... 6
The Project Area .          ..................                       7
Project Objectives.                              .          .    8
Project Beneficiaries                . . .8...  a
Complementary Activities to the Project   .             .
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION. ....                                              9
Construction of the Jaiba Sprtnkler Irrigation
Scheme..                                                          9
Initial Operation of Jaiba Irrigation District (JID)                10
Applied Agricultural Research .12
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies .13
C. PROJECT ORGANIZATION .13
Cooperation CODEVASF - Government of Minas Gerais                   13
Role and Organization of CODEVASF .14
Role and Organization of RURALMINAS .14
Role and Organization of JID .15
Accounts and Auditing .15
Monitoring and Evaluation .15
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . .16
Costs  ..16
Financing Plan   ..16
Procurement ............  .                                         17
Disbursements   ..18
Cost Recovery   ..                                                  19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during January/February 1988. The mission comprised Messrs.
J.L. Ginnsz (Mission Leader), H. Floyd (Agronomist), A. Tobelem
(Organization Specialist), and Ms. M. Anderson (Operations Assistant),
from the Bank.



Table of Contents (cant.)
Page No.
E.    PROJECT  BENEFITS  ....... ............ ..................  20
Production, Marketing, Employment and Farm Income ....    20
Economic  Analysis   ....... ........... ..................  20
Project  Risks   ....... ............. ....................  21
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........  21
TABLES IN TEXT
Total Project Costs and Financing ................          2
Procurement Arrangements ................ .................   17
Disbursements      ............................................   18
ANNEX I  INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS .24
Table 1.1 - Irrigation Works - Main Characteristics .   27
ANNEX II   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND FARM MODELS .28
Table 2.1 - Farm Models - Full Development .31
Appendixt Soils .32
ANNEX III  A5RICULTURAL EXTENSIO? AND FARMER TRAINING .... ......   35
Table 3.1 - Settlemert of Beneficiaries .... .........   39
Appendix:   Settlement of Beneficiaries, Extension
and Training Services - Preliminary Terms
of  Reference   ............................  40
ANNEX IV ORGANIZATION              . . .43
Chart 4.1 - General Organization - Major Agreements-
Contracts .43
Chart 4.2 - CODEVASF Organization Chart .44
Chart 4.3 - RURALMINAS Otganization Chart .45
ANNEX V    COSTS ..............................................   46
Table 5.1 - Project Cost Summary .....  ...............   46
Table 5.2 - Project Components by Year .... ..........  47
Table 5.3 - Summary Account by Project Component  ....  48
ANNEX VI   IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND SCHEDULE OF
DISBURSEMENTS   .......................................  49
Table 6.1 - Implementation Schedule ....  .............   49
Table 6.2 - Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements.   SO
ANNEX VII  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS; SENSITIVITY TESTS ....  ............   51
Table 7.1 - Incremental Benefits and Costs .... ......   51
Table  7.2  -  Prices   ............... .. .................  52
ANNEX VIII DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES ....  ............  53
MAP: IBRD No. 20855



BRAZIL
JAIBA ITRIGATION PROJECT
I.  LOAV AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers          Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing          Slo Francisco River Valley Development Company
Agencys            (CODEVASF)
Amount:            US$71.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Beneficiaries:    The project would beL ,fit about 2,000 low income families
to be settled on 5 ha plots, 350 medium-size farmers who
would be allocated farms of 20 to 50 ha, two existing
large private farms of 3,500 ha and 650 ha for which
irrigation water would be made available, and 15,000
rural families through creation of permanent and part-
time employment.
Descriptions       The project would be part of the Northeast Irrigation
Program (PROINE). The objectives are to (a) increase
agricultural production and rural employment
opportunities in Northeast Brazil; and (b) further
institutional development for future expansion of the
irrigation sub-sector, through the creation of a private
irrigation district to operate the project.
The project would develop irrigated agriculture on some
23,600 ha. It would supports a) construction of the
Jaiba sprinkler irrigation scheme, using existing main
infrastructure works, to be complemented by irrigation
and electrical works, a road network, and administration
and social services facilities; b) initial operation of
the Jaiba Irrigation District (JID), which would be
responsible for providing support services to project
beneficiaries (extension, training, market information
and orientation, and social services), and for operation
and maintenance of project works; c) applied research, to
provide concrete recommendations for water management and
irrigated agricultural practices; and d) technical
assistance, training and studies to assist project
execution and preparation of a second phase project.
CODEVASF, in close cooperation with the Foundation for
Settlement and Rural Development of Minas Gerais
(RURALMINAS), woWld have overall responsibility for
project implementation, although this function would be
progressively transferred to JID.



-2-
Project Risks:    There are three principal risks associated with the
project. The first risk is related to the fac* that
small farmer beneficiaries would have little, if any,
previous experience in sprinkler irrigation. This risk
would be mitigated by the provision of strong extension
and training services by qualified private sector firms
and by the demonstrative effect of medium-size farms
using similar technologies. The second risk is
associated with the establirhment of JID. The district
would be the first of its kind in Brazil and could
confront organizational and managerial difficulties,
particularly in the initial stages. Vlose supervision by
CODEVASF, the sub-contracting of mair. activities to
competent private consulting firms, a*nd satisfactory key
personnel should considerably lessezi the associated
risks. SFinally, the uncertain economic climate in Brazil
could result in difficulties in both the supply and
demand for agricultural credit for compleme-ttary
productive investments. The recently approved
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR) and the
Government's ongoing macroeconomic stabilization plan
should help mitigate these difficulties.
Total Project Costs *nd Financing
Estimated Project Costs                   Local   for l n  Total
-      OTTTon) -----
A. Jaib. Irrigation Schome               65.9      5.1   71.0
B. Juibu Irrigation District             82.8      7.4   40.2
C. Applied Agricultural Research          8.4      0.8    4.2
D. Technical Assistance, Training A Studies  9.83  2.1   10.4
Total Baseline Costs                     110.4    16.4   126.8
Physical Contingencies                          Y      17 177
Price Contingencies                    18.8     2.2   1B6.
Total Project Coats                      188.4    19.6   159.0
Financing Plan
Govornment                               87.0      -      87.0
IBRD                                     61.4    19.6   71.0
Total                                   1WE       IEl   19"U
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY   1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1996  1996  1997
…-------------USS n ll Ton------…-----
Annual*   6.0  10.0  16.0  16.0   9.0   6.0   4.0   4.0   8.0
Cumulative 6.0  16.0  81.0  46.0  66.0  80.0  64.0  68.0  71.0
Rate of Return: 14X
lap: I8RD No. 20866
1/ 1-cluding about USS1S.7 million of local taxes.
/  Including an initial deposit of US83.0 million Into Special Account.



-3-
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economz
2.01     During the 1970s, the to-al area planted to crops in Brazil rose
at 3.3Z per year and sectoral GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6Z.
This high growth rate was fueled primar.ily by the development of export
crops (soybeans, citrus, tobacco, coffee, and cocoa) and, in the latter
part of the decade, by sugarcane production for the alcohol program. 'iotal
agricultural exports rose from US$2.09 billion in 1970 to US$9.43 billion
in 1980. Production was particularly dynamic in the expanding frontier
states of the Center-West (Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul, and parts of Minas
Gerais) but also grew steadily in the traditional agricultural states of
the South.
2.02     After 1980, the sector entered a period of relative stagnation and
slow growth, caused in part by sector-specific Government interventions
(trade and price controls), .erall macroeconomic management difficulties
and falling world commodity prices. The total area planted to crops in
Brazil grew at only 1.72 per year between 1980 and 1986 (compared to 3.3?
in the previous decade), and the output of many basic food crops (wheat,
maize, cassava, potatoes, rice, beans, meat, and milk) remained relatively
constant and rose only modestly in 1984 and 1985, with the result that per-
capita food production declined significantly and food imports increased to
about US$2 billion in 1986. Agricultural exports exhibited a similar
pattern, with virtually little or no growth since 1980, except in 1984 when
coffee and orange juice were aided by favorable price movements. In 1987,
rising domestic agricultural prices, coupled with favorab'e weather
conditions, contributed to a record grain harvest of 65 million mt.
Presently agriculture accounts for about 122 of GDP, 30? of employment, and
33? of exports.
The Rural Northeast
2.03     The Northeast of Brazil is comprised of the States of MaranhAo,
Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe,
Bahia, the northern portion of Minas Gerais and the island of Fernando de
Noronha. The region covers a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18? of
the country's total area).
2.04     The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since
the late 18008 because of periodic droughts, uncertain rainfall, skewed
land distribution, and limited employment opportunities. These problems
have resulted in high levels of poverty and under-employment. From 1970
to 1983, 9.3 million people migrated from the region, partially in response
to a five-year drought (1979-1983). In 1980, the Northeast had a total
population of 35 million (about 29? of the country's total), growing at
2.2? per annum with a population density of 22.5 inhabitants per square
kilometer.  Half the population lives in rural areas and over 50? of the
work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly
concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70? of all farms) occupy less than 62 of
the farm area; farms over. 500 ha (12 of all farms) occupy more than 40? of



- 4 -
the farm area. Rural incomes are low. In 1985, about half of the
Northeast rural population earned one quarter or less of the official
minimum wage (about US$600 annually).
2.05     The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (cotton,
sZsal. cassava and sugar) represent significant shares of national
production. The Zona da Mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture.  The agreste, a tr.nsitional zone contiguous with
semi-arid areas, is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising of
cattle. The sparsely populated, semi-arid sert8o is the largest of the
sub-regione and the most vulnerable to periodic droughts. Irrigated
agriculture represents only a small proportion of land under cultivation.
Irrigated lands are mainly located along the 3ao Francisco River and
downstream of small dams.
Irrigation Development in the Northeast
2.06     At r^esent, there is an estim&ted 360,000 ha of irrigated farmland
in the Northeast. About 70,000 ha hsr been developed by the two federal
agencies responsible for Northeast irrigation development, the National
Department for Drought Works (DNOCS) and the Sio Francisco River Valley
Development Company (CODEVASF). DNOCS has been mostly involved in
emergency drought programs and the construction of large dams and
reservoirs. CODEVASF, established in 1974, is responsible for the
implementation of major public irrigation sy tems in the Sgo Francisco
River Valley. It currently operates 18 irrigation projects with some
60,000 ha developed and 25,000 ha in various stages of construction. Since
1986, both agencies have been institutionally linked to a Special Minister
of Irrigation.
2.07     Irrigation .rograms for the Northeast received new impetus
following the 1978-83 drought and the appointment of a Special Minister of
Irrigation in 1986. The five-year Northeast Irrigation Program (PROINE)
created in January 1986 initially proposed an increase of one million
hectares in the areas under public and private irrigation in the Northeast
by 1990. This goal is now viewed as overly ambitious, however, because of
the need to improve irrigation planning, to further test appropriate water
management practices and irrigated crop technologies, and to develop
sustainable institutional arrangements for the management, operation and
maintenance of medium- and large-scale projects. PROINE includes the
developmeit of 178,500 ha by 1990 in the State of Minas Gerais, as part of
a 427,000 ha Program foi Irrigation and Drainage of Minas Gerais (PHID).
Past Bank Lendingi in the Agricultural Sector
2.08     As of September 30, 1988, the Bank has made 50 loans, totalling
US$4,426.8 million (net of cancellatAons), for agricultural and rural
development in Brazil. These include c'ie agricultural credit and export
loan for US$303.0 million; one agricultura' credit loan for US$300.0
million; one credit and marketing reform loan for US$500.0 million;
supplemental financing for US$30.5 million under the Special Action
Program; four loans for US$785.8 million for agro-industries; three for
US$111.5 million for livestock, including a disease control project of



US$51.0 million; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for
US$100.0 million for agricultural research; two for US$255.0 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100.0 million for land tenure
improvement: one for US$48.5 million for forestry development; one for
US$195 million for the irrigation sub-sector; and 32, totalling US$1,679.3
million, for various settlement, irrigation, and rural development projects
in the Northeast, in Minas Gerais, and in the North and Northwest.
2.09     In support of PROINE, the Bank has granted loans for the Northeast
Technical Assistance and Irrigatior. Engineering Project (Loan 2680-BR) for
US$48 million in March 1986; the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation
Project (Loan 2719-BR) for US$57 million in May 1986; ar.d the Itaparica
Resettlement and Irrigation Project (Loan 2883-BR) for US$132 million
approved in November 1987. The engineering project provides technical and
financial support for regional irrigation planning and detailed study and
design of possible future public irrigation projects. The Upper and Middle
' o Francisco Irrigation Project is implemented by CODEVASF and provides
for the rehabilitation of 17,800 ha of irrigated land and the development
of some 11,000 ha of new lands. The Itaparica project provides for the
development of some 17,700 ha of irrigation for some 5,300 families
resettled as a result of the construction of the Itaparica Hydroelectric
Project.
2.10     Prior to these recent irrigation efforts, the Ba-..i -as involved in
two other CODEVASF irrigation projects. The Lower Sao Francisco Polder
Project (Loan 1153-BR) for US$23 million, approved in August 1975, was a
follow-up to the Paulo Alfonso IV/Sobradinho Hydropower Project. The
project was needed to compensate for changes in the flow regime of the
river caused by the operation of the hydropower project, which affected the
fertile floodlands (varzeas) downstream of the dam. It financed the
construction of protective dikes and the establishment of irrigation in six
large flood plains (32,000 hectares), improving the livelihood of 11,000
families. During its first years, the project suffered serious delays
mainly due to organizational difficulties within CODEVASF, and inadequate
implementation of social and land tenure improvement activities. The
Project Performance Audit Report for the Lower Sao Francisco Polders
Project showed, however, that despite these implementation delays, net
incomes of beneficiaries increased beyond original estimates and many small
farmers moved from subsistence agriculture to commercial farming. The
second project, the Lower Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project (Loan 1729-BR
for US$29 million approved in June 1979, Loan 1729-1-BR for US$7.7 million
approved in December 1983) closed on June 30, 1988. Project implementation
was satisfactory. Although flood conditions in 1985 and 1986 created
dela"s in completing civil works, production in the developed areas
exceeded appraisal estimates.



- 6
III. THE PROJECT
A.  GENERAL
Rationaie for Bank Involvement
3.01     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's strategy in Brazil is
to support macroeconomic adjustment and economic growth, while helping to
increase the efficiency of investments and services for the poor.
Irrigation development, because of its ability to intensify use of
agricultural lands and to increase production and productivity, is
potentially one of the most cost-effective strategies for achieving sector
efficiency and growth. In the Northeast, irrigation has the complementary
cbjective of providing new rural employment opportunities in the country's
most impoverished region. However, technical and institutional constraints
are more severe in the Northeast than in other parts of the country. The
Bank, through its support for a few selective interventions designed to
remove these constraints and to demonstrate irrigation's potential, is
contributing towards more efficient and rapid sub-sector development. The
Bank has begun to do this through its support for the Northeast Technical
Assistance and Engin:eering Project (Loan 2680-BR) and the Upper and Middle
SAo Francisco Irrigation Project (Loan 2719-BR). Incorporating lessons
from these projects, as well as two earlier efforts in the Sgo Francisco
Valley, the proposed project, in addition to furthering agricultural
production and rural employment objectives, would promote the increased
participation of the private sector in project service delivery and
management.
Project Origin
3.02     In the 1970s, the Federal Government decided to develop a large
irri?ation scheme of about 100,000 ha along the Sao Francisco River, in the
munic;pality of Jaiba in the Northeast portion of Minas Gerais. It
constrmcted major infrastructure works, but the project was eventually
stopped because of financial difficulties. In 1983, the FAO Cooperative
Program .FAO-CP), as part of an effort to identify priority irrigation
projects for external financing, selected the completion of the Jaiba
project as one of the prioriti?s. In 1986, CODEVASif began preparation
jointly with tho Foundation i-r Settlement and Rural Development of Minas
Gerais (RURALMINAS), which is linked to the Secretariat of Agriculture of
Miras Gerais.  It was one of the first cases of federal-state cooperation
in irrigation development. A consortium of consulting firms (Brazilian and
Portuguese) prepared the engineering sttdies of the irrigation and
electrical works; the latter were also prepared by the Electric Company of
Minas Gerais (CEMIG).
3.03     The first Bank preparation mission took place in April 1986, and
the project was appraised by the Bank in January-February 1988.
Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., in August 1988. The Brazilian
delegation was led by Dr. Daniel de Oliveira of the Ministry of Finance,
Secretariat of International Affairs.



-7-
The Project Area
3.04     Location and Present Land Use.  The project area is located in the
Northeast region of the State of Minas Gerais, close to the border with the
State of Bahia, on the right bank of the Sao Francisco River. Most of the
project area of 28,000 ha is not cultivated and is covered with a natural
low-bush vegetation. Presently, three irrigation undertakings are in
operation within the project area, using temporary pumping equipment while
waiting for water from the proposed project:
(a)  AGRIVALEs a private farm of about 3,500 ha producing high-value
cash crcps on about 300 ha, using center pivot and drip
irrigation. Since it began operating ten years ago, the irrigated
area has remained relatively small because of limited pumping
capacity.
(b)  AGROCERES: a farm of about 650 ha producing certified seeds.  The
farm is a subsidiary of a large private company specialized in
seed production.
(c)  MOCAMBINHO: a public irrigation scheme of about 1,000 ha, using
gravity irrigation, which produced beans and cotton on about 600
ha in 1987; CODEVASF constructed the irrigation scheme in 1986.
In preparation for the proposed project, CODEVASF is also developing a
pilot irrigation scheme of 1,710 ha in the area, Most equipment (pipes)
has been procured, works have been awarded and construction began in May
1988. Under the pilot project, small farmers would be allocated farms of
5.0 ha equipped for sprinkler irrigation.
3.05     Existing Infrastructure Works.  The project area is characterized
by the presence of major basic infrastructure works constructed in the
1970s and early 1980s. These works were designed to irrigate a large
scheme of about 100,000 ha and would supply water to the proposed project.
Works include: (a) a first pumping station situated along the Sao Francisco
River and supplying (b) a main canal designed to serve the entire 100,000
ha, and (c) a second pumping station downstream on the main canal.
Electrical works supply power to the two pumping stationF and to facilities
and houses existing in the project area (one sub-station 138kv-13.8kv,
15mva; two sub-stations 138kv-6.6kv, 20mva); Electricity is supplied
through the Montes Claros-Janauba-Mocambinho transmission line (138kv)
which is connected with the SAo Francisco River Electricity Network
(Pandeiros System). Finally, two State roads, the Sao Francisco River, and
an air strip allow easy access to the project area (Annex I).
3.06     Potential of the Project Area.  The area has good potential for
irrigation given the large amount of water available frcv the Sao Francisco
River. In addition, climatological conditions enable year-round
cultivation of a wide variety of crops. However, soils are very permeable
(sandy).   Although they would be easy to cultivate, they would require
sophisticated water management (Annex II).



-8-
Proiect Objectives
3.07     The proposed project has the objectives of increasing agricultural
production and rural employment opportunities in the Northeastern area of
the State of Minas Gerais through the development of irrigation on 23,600
hectares. In addition to these production and employment objectives, a
fundamental objective of the project is to further institutional
development for future expansion of the irrigation sub-sector. As part of
this objective, improved project management and operation and maintenance
arrangements would be tested through the creation of a private irrigation
district, the first of its kind in Brazil.
Project Beneficiaries
3.08     There would be three types of beneficiaries in the proposed
project. The majority of beneficiaries (about 2,000 families) would be
poor rural families, selected according to criteria which have been agreed
upon between the Bank and CODEVASF (para. 3.17). They would receive 5 ha
irrigated lots and would be expected to join the project either
individually or through cooperatives. A second type of beneficiary would
be about 350 small and medium agricultural entrepreneurs who would settle
on irrigated lots ranging from 20 to 50 has. The project would also supply
water to two large farms: AGRIVALE and AGROCERES (para. 3.04). This mix of
beneficiaries is expected to facilitate dissemination of advanced
technologies to small farmers.
Complementary Activities to the Project
3.09     Agricultural Credit.  Beneficiaries would need seasonal and
medium-term agricultural investment credit. Seasonal credit would be
required to buy agricultural inputs; medium-term credit would be required
to buy agricultural and complementary irrigation equipment. All credit
would be financed by the Brazilian official credit system or by commercial
banks. Some medium- and long-term investment credit could be supplied by
the recently-approved, Bank-financed First Agricultural Credit Project.
3.10     Agro-industries and Storage Facilities.  In addition to marketing
fresh products, beneficiaries would be expected to build and operate
facilities to pack, process or store products. Processing activities could
include: bean packing, tomato processing, fruit juice production.
However, the precise activities which would be developed would depend on
the entrepreneurs. From discussions held with candidates, one could expect
that the spectrum would be quite large; an area of 120 ha has been reserved
within the project area for agro-industries.
3.11     Environmental Aspects.  The project would have only limited
effects on the environment. The flow of the SAo Francisco River would not
be reduced substantially because of the project as the quantities of water
that would be pumped would be relatively small as compared to its normal
flow. Fertilizers would not pollute the aquifer as their use would be
carefully monitored through their mix with water directly into the
irrigation system. However, the project area would be cleared in order to
build the irrigation works and project facilities, which might affect the
ecological system. Also, water would be supplied to every farm through
open-lined canals which could facilitate an increase in water-borne



- 9 -
diseases in the project area. For these reasons and in accordance with
Brazilian regulations on environment, CODEVASF has agreed with the National
Environmental Council (CONAMA) that an area of 7,500 ha contiguous to the
project area would remain a forestry reserve; in addition, a strip of
natural vegetation has been maintained on both sides of the Jaiba drain
thus constituting an ecological corridor. The forestry reserve, ecological
corridor, and isolated, undeveloped areas within the project area would be
managed by the Forestry State Institute of Minas Gerais (IEF), which is
satisfactory to the Bank. Contractors would also be required, through
environmental specifications in the bidding documents, to minimize possible
damages to the environment while implementing works. CODEVASF has entered
into an agreement with the Technological Center of Minas Gerais (CETEC) to
prepare the Environmental Impact Statement (RIMA) and to evaluate and
monitor the environmental aspects of the project during its implementation
period. However, the agreement requires amendment to be satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.24). CETEC has experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank. The RIMA has already been prepared by CETEC,
reviewed by the Bank, and is considered satisfactory. Finally, CODEVASF
provided assurances during negotiations that it would sign a satisfactory
written agreement with the Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns
(SUCAM) no later than December 31, 1990, for SUCAM to carry-out a campaign
against water-borne diseases irh the project area.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.12     The project would have four main components:  (a) construction of
the Jaiba sprinkler irrigation scheme which would equip about 17,800 ha1
for irrigation including irrigation works and the associated electrical
distribution system and roads network; (b) initial operation of the Jaiba
Irrig.tion District (JID), which would be responsible for settling farmers
and providing them with extension, training, marketing and social services,
and operating and maintaining the district wcrks which would command an
irrigated area of 23,600 ha; (c) an applied agricultural research program;
and (d) technical assistance, training, and studies.
Construction of the Jaiba Sprinkler Irrigation Scheme (57Z of baseline
costs; Annex I)
3.13     Irrigation Works.  To complement the existing basic infrastructure
works, the project would build a network of secondary and tertiary
concrete-lined open canals which would deliver water to individual farms.
It would be designed for a flow of 1.4 1/s/ha and would be equipped with
flow regulating automatic gates. On-farm irrigation equipment for small
farmers w7ould be based on conventional sprinkler irrigation and would
include an electric motor-pump which would pressurize water into a main
buried pipe, and laterals equipped with sprinklers (mobile equipment). In
addition, the Mocambinho existing scheme would be rehabilitated and
converted from surface to sprinkler irrigation, and minor works would
complete or repair the existing irrigation works. Entrepreneurs would be
1/     Excluding AGRIVALE and AGROCERES, and the pilot project (about 5,800
ha additional or about 23,600 ha in total). The corresponding gross
area would be about 28,000 ha.



- 10 -
responsible for building their own on-farm works, and purchasing and
installing the irrigation equipment of their choice (center pivot or drip
irrigation, in addition to conventional sprinkler irrigation).
3.14     Electrical Works.  The capacity of the existing system would be
reinforced to meet the electricity requirements of the project.
Complementary works would include the construction of transmission lines
(138kv, 16.3 kms), two power sub-stations (138kv-13.8kv,15 MVA each) and a
distribution system including electric lines (13.8kv, 270 kms) and
transformers (13.8kv-2Z0-127v, 75 to l5kva) on posts. Each farm would be
supplied with electricity for irrigation and domestic purposes. CEMIG
would prepare the final engineering design of the works, procure the
related works and equipment, and supervise their respective construction
and installation, and following the implementation phase, CEMIG would
operate and maintain the electrical system. Loan funds provided by
CODEVASF to CEMIG would be accounted for by CEMIG as equity in the name of
CODEVASF. Partial recovery of operating costs of electrical works would be
ensured by CEMIG through collection of electricity tariffs. CEMIG has
entered into a coordinating agreement with CODEVASF which requires
amendment to be fully satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.24). Tariffs are
determined at the federal level and would be reviewed under the on-going
Bank-financed Power Sector Rehabilitation Plan, supported under Loan
2720-BR.
3.15     Roads.  A feeder road network of about 410 kms would be built to
provide access to each farm, to service irrigation works and to liaise with
the existing state network. Most roads would be located along canals, have
a width of 3.5 or 6.0 i, and only the major service roads would be covered
with laterite.
Initial Operation of the Jaiba Irrigation District (32? of baseline costs)
3.16     Jaiba Irrigation District (JID).  JID would be a private
association (associaggo civil) under Brazilian law and its members would be
the project beneficiaries. It would be operational when the project starts
in order to facilitate the early participation of project beneficiaries in
project activities. Because it would be expected to play a major role in
project execution, but at the same time remain a small institution, its own
staff would be limited and consulting firms would be recruited to provide
stpport services to farmers and to operate and maintain the irrigation
works. Its Governing Board would have seven members: four representatives
of small carmer beneficiaries, two representatives of the entrepreneurs,
and one representative of the Rural Workers Union. RURALMINAS and CODEVASF
would not vote, but would have a veto power over the decisions of the Board
for a period of five years. The Board would appoint a General Manager who
would hire the heads of three divisions, with the approval of the Board.
The three divisions would be: Agricultural Production, Operation and
Maintenance, Administration and Finances. The remaining staff would be
hired jointly by the General Manager and the heads of the divisions. The
project would finance the construction of administration facilities
(offices, garages, workshops), houses (about 40 in total), and operating
costs of JID on a declining basis during the project implementation period.
JID has been legally established on April 13, 1988, and an agreement has
been signed between CODEVASF and JID which is satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.24). In order to initiate project implementation without delay,



- 11 -
CODEVASF and RURALMINAS have already selected the first General Manager,
whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank. CODEVASF
provided assurances during negotiations that JID would be maintained with
an organization, structure, and functions, including competent staff il
adequate numbers, all acceptable to the Bank, throughout the project
implementation period.
3.17     Farmer Settlement.  Farmer settlement would include selection,
allocation of a farm, follow-up during a probation period, and preparation
and delivery of land title. The selection would be made according to
criteria which have been agreed upon with the Bank. Priority would be
given to small farmers already living in the region and, preferably having
experience in irrigation and family labor availability. JID, assisted by
private consultants (paza. 3.18), would allocate farms of five ha, twenty
ha, and fifty ha to small farmers, small entrepreneurs and medium
entrepreneurs, respectively. All farmers would have a five-year probation
period; should they not perform satisfactorily during this period, they
would not receive their land title. The price that farmers would pay for
their farm would include land improvement investments made under the
project (clearing, correction of soil fertility, hydraulic works and
equipment, water and electricity supply). In February 1988, payment
conditions, which were satisfactory to the Bank, included a 25-year
repayment period including a 5-year grace period, at a real interest rate
of 32. The Federal Government and the State of Minas Gerais have agreed2
that settlement procedures under the project would comply with the
Brazilian legislation, namely Law No. 6662 of June 25, 1979 (Irrigation
Law). At negotiations, CODEVASF provided assurances that the above
settlement procedures, including repayment conditions, would be followed.
3.18     Extension and Training Services.  The objective of this assistance
would be to familiarize small farmers with the irrigated crops to be grown
under the project and the relevant agricultural and water management
practices. JID, through the contracting of private firms, would teach
small farmers to select adapted varieties, agricultural equipment,
agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizers and pesticides), to make extensive
use of animal traction, and to comply with a timely planting and
cultivation schedule. JID would also provide advisory services to
entrepreneurs on an ad hoc basis. To implement demonstration plots,
extension agents would liaise with the Agricultural Research Institute of
Brazil (EMBRAPA) and the Agricultural Research Institute of Minas Gerais
(EPAMIG), who would be jointly carrying out a research program in the
project area (para. 3.22). Concerning water management, extension agents
would advise small farmers on how to use water efficiently in sandy soil
conditions and under sprinkler irrigation. Tractors financed under the
project (70 HP, 1/160 ha) and operated by a private firm, would be
available at the District level for soil preparation.  The number of small
farmers per extension agent would be forty (40) during the first year,
2!     Agreement signed between the Minister of the Agrarian Reform and
Development (MIRAD), the Minister Extraordinary for Irrigation Affairs,
the Governor of Minas rerais, the Secretary of Planning of Minas
Gerais, the Chairman of CODEVASF, and the Director General of
RURALMINAS, on January 28, 1988.



- 12 -
progressively increasing to two hundred (200) by year seven of the project
execution period. In addition to field training, a training center would
be built to teach agricultural-related techniques to small farmers and
their children (professional education). A condition of loan effectiveness
would be that JID would sub-contract farmer settlement services and the
provision of extension, training and social services to a private
consulting firm with experience, qualifications and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. Preliminary terms of reference have been
prepared and are satisfactory to tbe Bank (Annex III).
3.19     Social Services.  Social extensionists, employed under contract
with JID (para. 3.18), would assist small farm families on education,
health, and household financial management matters. Also, six schools, six
health posts, and six community centers would be constructed. A decree
signed by the Governor of the State of Minas Gerais in October 1987
stipulates that the relevant state secretariats would be responsible for
operating and maintaining these facilities.
3.20     Marketing Services.  The district would assist its members to
market or export their products, through monitoring of marketing
conditions, looking for outlets, negotiating contracts, grouping
merchandises, and arranging for pickup, transportation and delivery.
Assurances have been provided during negotiations that the District would
contract, no later than December 31, 1990, its marketing activities to a
specialized firm with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank. These consulting services would be financed under the project.
3.21     Operation and Maintenance.  Part of JID's work would include
delivery of water to each farm, measuring water consumption at the farm
level and within the irrigation scheme, repairing individual motor pumps,
and operating and maintaining canals and related hydraulic structures.
The two main pumping stations and the main canal would continue to be
operated and maintained by CODEVASF. CODEVASF provided assurances during
negotiations that JID would sub-contract operation and maintenance of
irrigation works no later than December 31, 1990, to a specialized firm
with experience, qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank. These services would be financed under the project.
Applied Agricultural Research (3Z of baseline costs)
:..Z2    EPAHIG has been carrying out a modest research program on the
project site since 1975. However, field experiences have been mainly on
alluvial soils, whereas the majority of the soils of the project area would
be loamy sands. Research activities would cover five areas: soils and
climatological conditions, irrigation equipment and systems, fertilizer
management in sandy soils, water management, and crop production. EMBRAPA
and EPAMIG jointly would carry out these activities, under an agreement
signed with CODEVASF. This agreement requires some amendments in order to
be fully satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.24). EMBPAPA and EPAMIG would
develop production-oriented recommendations for extension agents to
disseminate to farmers. The project would finance the construction of
administration buildings (3xl50m2), houses (5xllOm2), and specialized
equipment.



- 13 -
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies (8Z of baseline costs)
3.23     The technical assistance sub-component of the project would
consist of short-term assignments by experts mainly to assist JID to
implement the project, but also to improve the expertise of CODEVASF and
RURALMINAS in specific areas. Areas that have been identified include:
organization and institutional development, management, social aspects of
projects, irrigation engine ring (pumping stations, automation of
irrigation systems), elec' )mechanics, geotechnics, and pedology. Needs
have been estimated at 100 man-months over the project implementation
period. The training sub-component of the project would consist of
courses, semi:tars, and study trips overseas and in Brazil. Beneficiaries
would be high and mid-level staff of institutions involved in project
implementation (it would include high-level staff from CODEVASF only as
mid-level staff would be trained under tbe Upper and Middle Sao Francisco
Irrigation Project, Loan 2719-BR). Three areas of training have been
identified: (a) management: project administration, planning,
computerization, procurement (130 staff-courses, 20/50 hour-courses);
(b) rural development: rural legislation, settlement (150 staff, 40/80
hours-courses); and (c) specific techniques: construction, operation and
maintenance, automation of irrigation schemes, hydraulics, electrical
systems, pedology, topography (60 staff, 80 hour-courses). The studies
sub-component would include the following studies: prepAration of
construction plans of the ?rcdosed project, preparatior. of a second phase,
marketing of crops produced, complementary informatior. on pedology and
hydrogeology, monitoring and evaluation of measures aimed at protecting the
environment.
C. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
3.24     CODEVASF would implement the project in close cooperation with
RURALMINAS, and mainly through JID for project act.4ivities other than
construction of irrigation works which CODEVASF would supervise directly.
Construction of civil works would take four years, from 1989 to 1993, and
the project would achieve full development in 8 years. CODEVASF provided
assurances during negotiations that it would enter into coordinating
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with executing agencies, including
CEMIG, CETEC, SUCAM, RURALMINAS, EMBRAPA-EPAMIG. A number of agreements
have already been signed, but require amendment in order to include
standard Bank requirements with respect to procurement, reporting, and
other implementation arrangements. Implementation arrangements are
summarized below.
Cooperation CODEVASF - Government of Minas Gerais
3.25     CODEVASF and RURALMINAS have prepared the proposed project
jointly, and CODEVASF has sub-contracted the execution of the pilot scheme
to RURALMINAS. Two new mechanisms would ensure that the existing
cooperation would continue:
(a) signature of a General Agreement between the Minister of
Irrigation and the Governor of Minas Gerais;



- 14 -
(b)  joint CODEVASF-RURALMINAS veto power on decisions taken by the
Board of JID (para. 3.16).
In addition, regular working seminars would be held between the CODEVASF
coordinator and the RURALMINAS deputy coordinator (para. 3.27). The
General Agreement referred to above was signed in February 1, 1988, and is
satisfactory to the Bank. It indicates the willingness of both the Federal
Government and the State of Minas Gerais to implement the project jointly,
confirms the availability of the land owned by the State and the Ministry
of Agrarian Reform and Agricultural Development within the project area for
project implementation purposes, and defines clearly the respective roles
of CODEVASF, RURALMINAS, and JID in such implementation. In addition, a
specific coordinating agreement would be signed between RURALMINAS and
CODEVASF (para. 3.24).
Role and Organization of CODEVASF
3.26     CODEVASF would assume overall responsibility for project
execution. It would supervise the execution of the irrigation works,
operate and maintain the existing primary irrigation works (the main canal
and two major pumping stations) through private specialized firms, and
would delegate the support services to farmers and the operation and
maintenance of the proposed irrigation works to JID. A Project
Coordinating Unit has been created at headquarters in Brasilia to ensure a
coordinated and timely implementation. The unit would program, budget,
monitor and evaluate project activities. It would implement directly the
technical assistance, training and studies component of the project. It
would consist of three professionals and related support staff, and would
benefit from periodic external technical assistance (para. 3.23). It would
provide all necessary assistance to a Jaiba Unit which would be created for
on-site supervision. This unit would supervise the day-to-day activities,
including construction of the works, settlement of and assistance to
farmers, and agricultural production. The main areas in which it would
need assistance from the Project Coordinating Unit in Brasilia would be
hydraulic engineering and procurement. The Jaiba Unit would consist of
three higher-level staff (two irrigation engineers and one agronomist) and
related support staff. CODEVASF provided assurances during negotiations
that it would maintain a Project Coordinating Unit, with organization,
structure, and functions, including a Project Manager assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers, all acceptable to the Bank.
Role and Organization of RURALMINAS
3.27     RURALMINAS would be the coordinating agency for state services
provided to the project. The role of the State would mainly be to
(a) operate and maintain utilities (water supply, road network,
electrification, telephone systems, schools, health posts) and provide
forestry reserve management services throughout the life of the project;
and (b) provide adequate services in health and education in the project
area. The State has cimmitted itself to provide these services through a
decree issued in October 1987 (para. 3.19). RURALMINAS would assist the
State Secretariats involved in project implementation in preparing the
related annual operating plens which would be communicated to the Secretary
of Planning for approval and subsequent allocation of resources. In
addition to this coordinating role, RURALMINAS would assist JID in



- 15 -
settlement and rural development matters; notably, RURALMINAS would ensure
that settlement procedures are in conformity with State and MIRAD
regulations. To carry out these functions, the Director General of
RURALMINAS has nominated a RURALMINAS coordinator who would be the Deputy
Project Coordinator and created a coordinating commission which includes a
representative of each department of RURALMINAS (Land, Natural Resources,
and Administration and Finances).
Role and Organization of JID
3.28     JID would be responsible to select, settle and provide support
services to its members (paras. 3.17-3.20); and to operate and maintain the
project works (para. 3.21). Its role, operating activities and procedures
are clearly defined in an agreement it has entered into with CODEVASF
(paras. 3.16 and 3.24).
3.29     The Agricultural Production division of JID would program and
carry out activities related to agricultural production and support to
farmers; the Operation and Maintenance division would be responsible for
the Operation and Maintenance of the irrigation works. To ensure adequate
service (this activity would increase over time while the support services
to farmers would decrease), the Operation and Maintenance division would
have its own offices, garage, workshop, houses physically distinct from the
other project facilities; both divisions would supervise the respective
specialized private firms to be contracted to provide these services
(paras. 3.18 and 3.21). These firms would use facilities constructed under
the project (offices, garages, workshops, and houses), but would provide
staff and equipment (including heavy-duty operation and maintenance
equipment). The Administration and Finances division would keep the
accotnts of the district: revenues incurred mainly from the sales of
services to members (supply of inputs, soil preparation, water charges) and
expeuses which would be mainly operating expenses.
Accounts and Auditing
3.30     CODEVASF would maintain separate accounts for pro;ect expenditures
which would be audited annually by independent, private or public auditors
acceptable to the Bank. At negotiations, the Federal Government and
CODEVASF provided assurances that (i) project accounts, including the
Special Account (para. 3.42), would be maintained and audited annually
according to practices sEtisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference
for the auditors would ivclude inter alia, verification of expenditures
made under statements of expenditures (SOEs); (iii) audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.31     The Jaiba Coordinating Unit would prepare all documents necessazy
to moni or and evaluate progress made during project implementation. These
would include quarterly progress reports whose format would be similar to
that adopted for two other Bank-financed irrigation projects implemented by
CODEVASF; and an annual report which would summarize activities performed
during the two relevant crop seasons (works, agricultural development,
processing and marketing, farmers' organization). CODEVASF provided



- 16 -
assurances during negotiations that it would submit quarterly and annual
progress reports no later than three months after the close of each
respective quarter and fiscal year.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Costs
3.32     The total project cost, including taxes, woald amount to US$158
million over the eight-year implementation of the project. Taxes would
amount to US$15.7 million, or 1OZ of total costs. A 152 physical
contingency for civil works and goods has been added to the base costs.
Price contingencies of 0.5Z in 1988, 3.0% in 1989, 3.0% in 1990, and 4.OZ
onward have been added to the base costs plus physical contingencies. It
is assumed that periodic, local currency devaluations, carried out on a
purchasing power parity basic, would compensate any differences between the
projected U.S. dollar and local inLiation rates. Project costs and the
annual phasing of investments are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex V.
Financing Plan
3.33     The proposed Bank loan of US$71.0 million equivalent would finance
50% of total estimated costs net of taxes or 45% of total project costs.
The loan would finance 100% of the direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs of US$19.6 million and US$51.4 million of local costs. The loan
would be for 15 years, including a five-year grace period. The Bank loan
would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil, which would carry the
foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to
complete the project. A condition of effectiveness would be for the
Federative Republic of Brazil to enter into a subsidiary loar agreement
with CODEVASF, satisfactory to the Bank. A condition of effectiveness
would be that the Federal Government would have provided evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that it has made available to CODEVASF in 1988 the
equivalent of US$3,000,000 for expenditures required for the Project in
1988. Retroactive financing of US$3.0 million would help finance
preparatory studies (final engineering of irrigation works, including
urgent rehabilitation works in hocambinho), technical assistance in
organization, and initiation of building construction and repairs of the
Mocambinho irrigation scheme; these activities should facilitate a timely
start of project implementation. To ensure that sufficient funds would be
available to support the project, the federal Government provided
assurances at negotiations that the Treasury would (a) beginning no later
than one month after the effective date, make available to CODEVASF,
through the Office of the Minister of Irrigation, all funds for the project
in accordance with, and within the time period set forth in the project
implementation schedule, and that these funds would be made available prior
to the fifteenth day after the beginning of each such time period; and
(b) through the Office of the Minister of Irrigation, review with the Bank
by June 30 of each year the proposed allocations from its budget for the
Project for the following year.



- 17 -
Procurement
3.34     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$Million)
Project Element              Procurement Method          Total Costs
ICB     LCB   Other    None
Civil works              47.8     ,.2    -         -            55.0
(21.5)   (3.2)                        (24.7)
Goods and Equipment      30.8     6.4    1.0       -            38.2
(14.2)   (3.1)  (0.5)                 (17.8)
Consultants and
Other Services                  -     53.1       -           53.1
(24.0)                 (24.0)
Operating Costs                                   11.7         11.7
(4.5)        (4.5)
TOTAL          78.6    13.6   54.1      11.7         158.0
(35.7)   (6.3) (24.5)    (4.5)        (71.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts (including
contingencies) expected to be financed by the Bank.
3.35     The following works and equipment would be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): irrigation works following pre-
qualification; hydro-electro-mechanical equipment; electrical equipment,
including poets and cross arms (provided that suppliers of wood poles would
be entitled to bid; if not, these items would not be financed under the
loan); on-farm irrigation and agricultural equipment. On-farm equipment
would be procured under three separate contracts (pumps, pipes, and
sprinklers); contracts for operation and maintenance equipment would also
be grouped to the extent practicable. Procurement through ICB would
represent about 90Z of total procurement of goods and equipment under the
project. Hydro-electro-mechanical and electrical equipment would be
supplied to the irrigation works contractors for installatioa.
3.36     Contracts for works below US$3.0 million would be procured under
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), with procedures satiefactory to the Bank;
they ..,uld refer to (i) land clearing, initial soil improvements, minor
irrigation rehabilitation works, construction of buildings; the aggregated
value of these works is estimated at about US$7.2 million. Contracts for
goods and equipment below US$400,000 would be procured under local
competitive bidding, with procedures satisfactory to the Bank; they would
consist of construction materials and miscellaneous equipment; construction
materials would be awarded locally irrespective of contract sizes. The
aggregate value of the relevant contracts would not exceed USa6.4 million.



- 18 -
3.37     Office and extension equipment, furniture and other similar goods,
estimated to cost less than US$40,000 per contract, would be awardedi on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from at least three
suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The
aggregate value of such contracts would not exceed US$1.0 million.
3.38     Civil works contracts over US$3.0 million and materials and
equipment contracts over US$400,000 would be subject to prior review of
bidding documents, bid evaluations, award proposals and final contracts.
However, the first two LCB procurements for works and the first two for
goods, both irrespective of the size of their contracts, would be 'ubject
to prior review by the Bank of bid documents, bid evaluations, award
proposals and final contracts. In total, Bank prior review would cover
about 90Z of the value of coltracts financed under the project.  Other
contracts wouid be subject to selective post award review. Vehicles and
computers are reserved procurement items: they would not be financed by
the proposed loan, their estimated cost has been excluded from total
project costs, and the amount of Bank loan reduced accordingly.
3.39     Services to provide support services to farmers, to operate and
maintain the main aiid proposed irrigation works, to implement studies, to
supervise works with the exception of electrical works, and to provide
techiical experts, would be contracted in accordance with Bank guidelines
for the use of consultants (August 1981). CODEVASF provided assurances at
negotiations that the above procurement arrangements would be followed.
Disbursements
3.40     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against four
categories, as indicated below:
-orc nta
llocation                of Toter
of Loan Amount           Expenditures
Cetegory      (USMililion Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works           24.0                       46X
(2) Goods and             15.0                  100I of foreign
Equipment                                 and 45X of local
expenditures
(8) Consultgnts and       21.0                 IOOX of foreign
Oth-rf/ ServIees                          and 46X of local
expenditures
(4) Recurrent Costs        4.0                  46X until such
of JID,                                    time as the
equivalent of
US88,o0o,000, has
been disbursed from
the Loon Account
under this Category;
SOW thereafter
(6) Unallocated            7.0
71.0
1/  Operation of JID tractors (para. 8.18) and possibly Operation and
Maintenance of Irrigation works (pars. 3.21).



- 19 -
3.41     An eight-year disbursement period is based on a four-year works
schedule, and a four-year period needed by most small farmers to reach full
development. This is consistent with the disbursement period for the first
two Bank loans to CODEVASF for irrigation projects which were disbursed in
eight and nine years (paras. 2.10-2.11). The regional disbursement profile
for this type of project is ten years; however, the proposed disbursement
period is realistic, since most major infrastructure works already exist
and the project does not include the construction of drains.
3.42     To reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account
(SA) would be opened and operated by CODEVASF in the Central Bank with an
initial deposit of US$3.0 million. Withdrawals from SA would be supported
by the required documentation or Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Except
for the first two contracts for goods and works respectively (para. 3.28),
the Bank would disburse about US$6.8 million against Statements of
Expenditures for contracts for works not exceeding US$3.0 million and for
contracts of equipment not exceeding US$400,000, and operating costs of
JID. SOEs would be prepared by JID, and certified by CODEVASF, which would
keep supporting documentation available to Bank supervision missions. Two
conditions of disbursement would be (i) for expenses incurred by an
executing entity, that a copy of the coordinating agreement satisfactory to
tne Bank had been received by the Bank (para 3.24); (ii) for goods required
under the project, that their importation had not been prohibited by the
Government.
Cost Recovery
3.43     In accordance with the Federal Irrigation Law of 1979, and its
regulations (Decree 89496), farmers who benefit from irrigation schemes are
expected to pay water charges. These include a volumetric water charge to
recover operation and maintenance costs, and a per hectare water charge to
recover public investments in off-farm infrastructure. Water charges to be
applied to small farmers are expected to recover IOOZ of operation and
maintenance and 10OZ of investment cost (in real terms, over a 50 year
period, but without interest). In practice, the effectiveness of water
charges collections by CODEVASF varies from project to project from about
502 to 90Z. Under the project, JID would collect water charges and use
these resources to pay CODEVASF for operation and maintenance of the main
irrigation works (para. 3.26), and to finance its own services (para 3.29).
These conditions are best suited to achieve the highest collection rate of
water charges. During negotiations, the federal Government provided
assurances that water charges to be applied to all beneficiaries of the
project would (a) recover operation, maintenance and investment costs of
irrigation works; (b) increase over a period of four vears for each
beneficiary before levelling off in the fifth year, and would be applied
beginning with the first year of cultivation; and (c) be adjusted at least
on an annual basis, in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the
Bank, and proposed water charges would be reviewed with the Bank prior to
making the adjustments. In addition, farmers would pay for acquisition of
and improvements made on their farms and for electric operating costs
(paras. 3.14 and 3.17).



- 20 -
E. PROJECT BEVL. ITS
3.44     The various beneficiaries of the project would grow a variety of
irrigated crops, from basic food to high value cash crops. Marketing of
agricultural production would not pose major problems, because the project
area is located not far from the largest consumption centers of the
country. Per capita incomes of about 2,000 small tarmers would increase
substentially from about one third of the country's minimum wage; i.e.,
about US$200 to over US$800 annuelly, and the project would generate about
15,000 temporary or permanent jobs.
Production, Marketing, Employment and Farm Income
3.45     Production.  At full development, the annual value of incremental
agricultural production is estimated to be about US$36 million equivalent
(February 1988 farmgate prices). About ten percent of this value would be
exported. The impact of the project on agricultural production would
result from irrigated land that previously sustained almost no economic
activity. Most of the incremental production would come from maize, beans,
cotton and high-value crops such as onions, bananas, mangos, and papayas.
3.46     Marketing.  The incremental production would be marketed through
existing commercial channels; local markets would absorb beans, maize, and
cotton; major cities such as Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Brasilia, Belo
Horizonte, and Salvador would absorb vegetables; and about 30X of tropical
fruit would be exported. JID would provide marketing services to farmers
through the use of a specialized consulting firm (para. 3.20).
3.47     Employment and Farm Incomes.  Expanded agricultural activities
would create employment equivalent to some 15,000 man-years annually.
Estimated financial rates of return for five farm models would range from
16Z to 36Z. Three models refer to small-scale farmers whose net annual
farm incomes would increase from about US$200 per capita to over US$800 at
full development. Two farm models refer to commercial small- and medium-
sized entrepreneurs. In addition to an improved standard of living for
about 2,000 poor rural families, the project would trigger the further
development of two agro-businesses, AGRIVALE and AGROCERES.
Economic Analysis
3.48     The economic rate of return for the project has been estim%..ed at
142, using a 20-year period of analysis. The benefits of the two agro-
businesses (AGRIVALE and AGROCERES) have been excluded from the economic
analysis because the relevant project costs are minimal.
3.49     The cost stream for the economic analysis includes all investment
costs, except those of studies and applied research (52), and all recurrent
costs except those related to the operation of schools and health posts and
to the costs of health campaigns for the prevention of water-borne
diseases. The cost of reserved procurement items; i.e., vehicles and
computers, has been included. Labor (both family and hired) was valued at
market rates. Economic prices were derived for the most frequently used
fertilizers and market prices were used for all other inputs.



-21 -
3.50     The benefit stream includes only agricultural production; no
benefits were estimated from education and health. Economic prices were
derived for cotton and maize, taking into account transportation and
processing costs as well as future price trends as indicated by Bank
forecasts. Farmgate prices were used for all other crops.
3.51     Sensitivity tests show that with a cost increase of 292 or a
production decrease of 232 a rate of return equivalent to the cost of
capital would still be achieved. If the cost of the existing irrigation
infrastructure is included, the economic rate of return of the project
would fall to 11Z.
Proiect Risks
3.52     There are three principal risks associated with the project.  The
first risk is related to the fact that small farmer beneficiaries would
have had little, if any, previeus experience in sprinkler irrigation. The
use of this technique would present some difficulty due to the high
permeability of the soils. It would mean constant monitoring of water
management and frequent moves of sprinkler equipment. This risk would be
mitigated by the provision of strong extension and training services by
qualified private sector firms and by the demonstrative effect of medium-
size farms using similar technologies.   The second risk is associated with
the initial operation of JID. The district would be the first of its kind
in Brazil and could confront organizational and managerial difficulties,
particularly in the initial stages. Close supervision by CODEVASF, the
subcontracting of its main activities to competent private consulting
firms, and the approval of its general manager by the Bank should
considerably lessen the associated risks. Finally, the uncertain economic
climate in Brazil could result in difficulties in both the supply and
demand for agricultural credit for complementary productive investments.
The recently approved Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR) and the
Government's ongoing macroeconomic stabilization plan should help mitigate
these difficulties.
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  JID would sub-contract farmer settlement services and the
provision of extension, training and social services to project
beneficiaries to a private consulting firm with experience,
qualifications, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.18);
(b) The Federative Republic of Brazil would enter into a subsidiary
agreement with CODEVASF satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.33).
(c) The Federative Republic of Brazil would have provided evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that it had made available to CODEVASF in
1988 the equivalent of US$3,000,000 for expenditures required for
the project in 1988 (para. 3.33).



- 22 -
4.02     Conditions of disbursement would be (i) for expenses incurred by
an executing entity, that a copy of the coordinating agreement satisfactory
to the Bank had been received by the Bank; (ii) for goods required under
the project, that their importation had not been prohibited by the
Government (para.3.42).
4.03     At negotiations, the Federative Republic of Brazil provided
assurances thatt
(a) the Treasury would (i) beginning no later than one month after the
effective date, make available to CODEVASF, through the Office of
the Minister of Irrigation, all funds for the project in
accordance with, and within the time period set forth in, the
project implementation schedule and that these funds would be made
available prior to the fifteenth day after the beginning of each
such time period; and (ii) through the Office of the Minister of
Irrigation, review with the Bank by June 30 of each year the
proposed allocations from its budget for the project for the
following year; and
(b) water charges to be applied to the project would (i) recover,
operation, maintenance and investment costs of irrigation works;
(ii) increase over a period of four years for each beneficiary
before levelling off in the fifth year, and would be applied
beginning with the first year of cultivation; and (iii) be
adjusted at least on an annual basis, in accordance with a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank, and proposed water charges
would be reviewed with the Bank prior to making the adjustments
(para. 3.43).
4.04     At negotiations, CODEVASF provided assurances that:
(a) it would sign a satisfactory written agreement with the
Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM) no later than
December 31, 1990, to carry out a campaign against water-borne
diseases in the project area (para. 3.11);
(b) JID would be maintained with an organization, structure and
functions, including competent staff in adequate numbers, all
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.16);
(c)  the settlement procedures described in para. 3.17 would be
followed;
(e) JID would contract its marketing activities to a specialized firm
withi qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1990 (para. 3.20);
(f)  JID would sub-contract operation and maintenance of irrigation
works to a specialized firm with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1990 (para. 3.21);
(g) it would enter into coordinating agreements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with executing agencies, including CEMIG, CETEC, SUCAM,
RURALMINAS, EMBRAPA-EPAMIG (para. 3.24);



- 23 -
(h) it would maintain a Project Coordinating Unit, with organization,
structure, and functions, including a Project Manager assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers, all acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.26);
(i) (i) project accounts, including the Special Account, would be
maintained and audited annually according to practices
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for the auditors
would include verification of expenditures made under statements
of expenditures (SOEs); and (iii) audit reports would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 3.30);
(j) it would submit quarterly and annual progress reports to the Bank
no later than three months after the close of each respective
quarter and fiscal year (para. 3.31); and
(k) it would follow the procurement arrangements described in
paragraphs 3.34 to 3.39.
4.05     Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$71 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 5-year grace period.
September 27, 1988



- 24 -                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Infrastructure Works
1.       The works foreseen under the project would allow sprinkler
irrigation of about 23,600 ha; they would complement existing
infrastructure works whose construction started in the 1970s, but was
stopped because of lack of financial resources. An electric distribution
system would also complement the existing electrical infrastructure works
which currently supply electricity to the existing irrigation works which
irrigated some 600 ha in 1987, and to houses and facilities located mainly
in the Mocambinho area. The project would also build an access and service
road network and facilities needed for administration of the Jaiba
irrigation District and social services. These works are described below.
2.       Existing Works.  These include: (i) a water intake along the Sao
Francisco River, (ii) two large pumping stations located at the beginning
and 1.2 km downstream of (iii) a main canal. These works were constructed
in the 1970s and in the early 1980s, and designed to irrigate a large
project of about 100,000 ha. To give an ieea of their magnitude, the main
canal has a capacity of 80 m31s, and the first pumping station is equipped
with electrical motor-pumps able to provide that capacity at a manometric
head of 16 ms. Details on the characteristics of these works are given in
the attached table. Their total cost has been estimated at US$98 million
(current terms) or US$128 million (April 87 terms). Although they are in
good working conditions, with newly installed electric motor-pumps, the
project would include repairs of the main canal (replacement of joints,
maintenance of embankments). These hydraulic works are supplied with
electricity originating from the Tres Harias hydroelectric dam, and
distribiuted through the PANDEIROS interconnected electrical network
(138 kv). There are currently three substations in the project area: one
in Mocambinho (15.0 mva; 138-13.8 KV), and two (20 mva, 138-6.6 kv)
supplying electricity to the two pumping stations. The current available
capacity would enable the irrigation of about 15,000 ha. Access to the
project area is gend, through an airstrip (length 400 m), a road system
(Mocambinho-MG 401), ..d the So Francisco River.
3.       Common Irrigation Works.  They would be designed to provide water
to every farm (5.0 ha for small farmers, 20 ha to small agricultural
entrepreneurs, 50 ha to medium agricultural entrepreneurs). Two large,
existing enterprises, AGRIVALE and AGROCERES, would receive water directly
from the main canal, and AGRIVALE, also through a siphon that would cross
the Jaiba natural drain. In all cases, water would be pressurized at the
farm level. The existing main canal would deliver water to secondary
concrete-lined open canals whose capacity would be generally less than
2.0 m3/s, through water intakes equipped with automatic gates (NEYRTEC with
constant downstream water level); secondary canals would also be equipped
with similar gates to regulate their flow. Secondary canals would deliver
water to tertiary and, exceptionally, quaternary canals; tertiary intakes



- 25 -                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
would also be equipped with automatic gates. Small farms (5 ha) would be
located mostly along these tertiary canals. The water efficiency of the
canals network would be 0.90 (10Z of the flow from the main canal would be
lost mainly through evaporation). Hydraulic structures have been
dimensioned for 1.35 l/siha (16 hrs. per day) assuming an efficiency of
0.70 at the farm level. The project area would be divided into 4 sub-
areas. The first area, Sub-area A (net irrigable area of 4,830 ha),
located on the right bank of the main canal, downstream of the second main
pumping station (see attached map), would include two secondary canals, 14
tertiary canals with lengths from 0.4 to 10.7 kms. It would irrigate 938
plots (5.0 ha; dimension: 140 x 400 m), and would be equipped with booster
pumping stations; Sub-area B (net irrigable area of 2,240 ha) is also
located on the right bank of the main canal, south of sub-area A. One
secondary canal (length: 12 kms) would deliver water to 17 tertiary
canals, through a booster pumping station connected to a regulating
reseivoir (rectangular shape, 75 x 75 ms, earthworks). It would irrigate
419 plots of 5.0 ha; and lZO ha have been reserved for agro-industries
close to the second main pumping station and along the main canal (this
area was chosen because of easy access, availability of electricity, and
worst soils for irrigation); Sub-area C3 (net irrigable area of 305 ha) is
a small area located on the left bank of the main canal opposite area B. A
secondary canal would supply water to tertiaries, through a booster pumping
station connected to a regulating reservoir (30 x 30 m, earthworks). A
flood prone area (Jaiba drain) would not be irrigated. Some 61 plots would
be irrigated within sub-area C3; and Sub-area C2 (net irrigable area of
9,400 ha) would be located on the left bank of the main canal; a secondary
canal (22.1 km) would cross sub-area F (the pilot scheme), the Jaiba drain
(siphon 03,000) and be connected with 14 tertiaries supplying water to
farms of 20.0 ha (dimension: 265 x 830 m) and 50.0 ha (dimension: 750 x
750 m).  No drainage system would be constructed as there is no evidence of
erosion even after heavy rains; however, should it be required in the
future, a drain could be built along the bottom lands of the project area
(a strip of land of 50 m width has been reserved for that purpose).
4.       On-Farm Irrigation Works.  In principle, small farms would be
equipped with a conventional sprinkler irrigation system; this would not
preclude, however, other types of irrigation such as center pivots (by
small and medium entrepreneurs only; it would not be used on small farms
which would be too smail), drip or micro sprinkler irrigation. Self-
propelled irrigation would be avoided because of its high rate of
precipitation incompatible with the soils' high permeability. Each farm
would have individual small booster motor-pumps (7.5 H.P.) which would
pressurize water into the on-farm sprinkler irrigation system. This system
would consist of a main buried PVC pipe (0100 nm, length: 387 m) connected
to 4 aluminum laterals (050 and 75 mm, L=120 m) with sprinklers; in normal
operating conditions, two laterals would be in service, while the two other
ones would be idle. Characteristics of the sprinkler would include a low
application rate because of soil conditions and to avoid too frequent moves
of the pipes. Losses of pressure in sprinklers and pipes have been
estimated using the HAZEN-WILLIAMS formula (friction coefficient of 130).
Dimensioning of the pipes has been made following calculations of peak
water requirements (September to January), using the Hargreaves model for



-26 -                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
monthly and the Penman model for short period evaporation.  In these
conditions, the capacity of on-farm equipment would be 1.44 lis/ha, or 7.2
1/s for a farm of 5.0 ha, assuming 16 hrs. operation and an on-farm
efficiency of 0.7 (302 water losses to provide water requirements to the
crop).
5.       Electrical Works.  The electrical works which would be constructed
under the project would include: (i) two transmission lines (138 kv, 16 kms
to C2 and 0.3 kms to ABC3) connecting the existing network to; (ii) two
sub-stations (138 kv-13.8 kv, 15 mva each): one located in sub-area A for
A, B, and C3; the other located in sub-area C2; (iii) a network of
distribution lines (13.8 kv, 270 kms) on concrete posts generally located
along canals and equipped with transformers (13.8 kv-220/127 v; 75, 45, 30,
15 kvs). The transformers would supply individual on-farm electrical
motor-pumps, houses, and project facilities.
6.       Roads.  Two types of roads would be consttacted: (i) service
roads: their purpose would be to provide access to every farm and to
operate and maintain the project works. They would be located on both
sides of canals and have a width of 3.50 or 6.00 ms and a unique cross
section slope of 3Z (off the canal); (ii) liaison roads: they would connect
the service roads together and with the outside road system (road
Mocambinho-MG 401 in particular); their characteristics would be similar to
those of service roads; however, they would be more resistant with a
laterite base, and asphalted. The network to be constructed would have a
length of about 410 kms.



-27 -                                           ANNEX I
Table 1.1
Page 4 of 4
Irriitii= wa.i.
ibm Ch rrl-tle-
1.  inotn  IW or
- Sli Francisco River int.wke         sO                       1.250   - Protection (rock-fill) ofriv*r
banks).
- Puping Station I          0          0           to            -     - EPC-
- Pusping Station 2                   65           18            -     - Electrical motoarpumps
10.5.5  * 57.5 a /a
22.2    -   .0
2x1.2'5 -  H 
- Main Canrl                          i0                     6t'90C     6.900 is the length of the canal
bstwee  pusing ettion- 1 and 2.
The canal is undo. conetruction
downetr pt     of pws.ing station 2.
65                               -Trapeso.d. I cross section, concrete
2.                                                                           I;ned; eftd   wtcy   0.96O
Sub       ibtor.
am       nit P (K'A    tb      Pu
- Ibonter Puping Stations              A         6560        1S       5
A       225*1.10      21      S
fd        6,160IO              6
CI      8s181.s0                4
C2      44200*1.50              5
C2       2a8S51x25              a
- R eulation Reerwoirs       Subraa    a    Lo   VA          tin
n    75    2.0    5?        - Capecity of I hr pusping m*iwxl
8 0    2.00   8.-75       - flow fros the corresodin  booster
p Ing  tattion; compacted earth with
=loges of e* banknts of 1/2
(eaternal nd lnternal). lined with
copected cloy; stel adduction pipe.
anals          Sub-sr"  JJL  L41    a Ku  a.2   Pi 'L        ?t I  -lt1
(A)     24.8  84.9   18.4   1.3     8.2       79.1    I/ Ssascondary;  Twtertiery;
U 1o82terdryI qauintensry
(a)     12.0  21.7    2.0   -       2.0       89.8  - Efficiency of S. T . Q and q canals:
0. 90;
(CS)      2.1  3.6    0.4   -         1.7       7.7  - All caeals are lined and have a
trspzo-dal crose-ectilon (1/1.6):
elsetic eatic joint every 2.5 *;
(C2)     154  AM4   JL         I      ...       L    - automatic gates (downstream constant
water level: NYRTEC type 84).
TOTAL           54.6 109.5  27.6   4.2       9.7     205.6  - SOtto  width: 0.4. o.6. 0.6. .i0.
p/s/12   I/T(9TQ(12);
- Longitudinal *lope of sabut 0.0001
a/si
- Fre* bord of 0.20 to 0.3On
- Calculation made using  AWNDi
formula with friction cofficint of
0.016.
-   Farm Works
o  lsetrlrcl motor puaW                                          - Each group Is equipped *ith an
electricity water mter. On-farm
efficiency;  0.7 (A, U. CS   0.75
(C2. 20 h). 0.60 (C2. 50 ha).
o lteralI                             La m1           am
4     78      12                        - tHin line PVC, Lame. .100. hO70.
60     100     SO      50         - Laterals (4) Alu; Le6O. 7  and
60s.
e sprinklers            10     28              25                 - Sprinblsrs Q.lSlljhr  P.261g/c.2
r6.1mohr; 12.lSa
3.  EleLt0 ka..h.t...                                       1 mL.          - l/  Lines:  18.0 k.; 15 bv type, 3
Po*s"e concrete poet  (conee, i r
or 4kr);
- Sub-Stations                  (VA)   15      -    is     0.0          Wires: CA 4/0 (1O0) AW(; CA  1/0
(2) AWS.
- Transmission Line      k-       -      -     -     -    16.8
- Distribution Lines 1/ ()       -       -     -     -  270.0          - Transformars- 138.  kS-220/127 KV, 3
phasee. iapedanc. 3.53. mineral oil
refrigeration. 15 to 75 KVA.
4. Bij                              A)        iLu iM   Islg
- Service and Lilmon           150      79    1S   160    410          - Cross-esct6on slope of 31.
Reeds (he)                                                         -width of 8.5 or 6.0 a
-Along censls; (80 cs) below
emboninsnts.
- Small  ridg                                                          - Smll bridges (8.60 a width) with
reinfrrced concrete.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production and Farm Models
1.       This annex provides some basic information on the present use of
land in the project area; it then highlights the potential use and natural
resources of the project area including soils limitations and crop
opportunities. The five farm models which have been prepared are
described, followed by information on project agricultural production.
Present Use of Land
2.       At present, almost all the project area is covered with a
thornbush vegetation (mata de Jaiba) and not cultivated. However,
following the construction of the major primary irrigation works (two large
pumping stations and a main canal) in the late 1970s/early 1980s, to
irrigate a large irrigation scheme of about 100,000 ha (the Jaiba Agro-
Industrial District Project), two private firms purchased land within the
project area (AGRIVALE and AGROCERES), and CODEVASF built a small
irrigation scheme for small farmers. While waiting for water from the
project, the two private firms installed their own equipment to pump water
from the SAo Francisco River. The Mocambinho settlers resorted to rainfed
cultivation. Due to irregular rainfall and soils with low water-holding
characteristics, yields achieved have been mediocre to poor.
3.       AGRIVALE Farm (3,500 ha).  This large private farm has been
producing mainly vegetables: beans, onions, garlic, and cotton on about
300 ha over the past 7 years. AGRIVALE's production has been almost
exclusively on the light loamy sands (latosolic soils); its efforts were
nrt always crowned with success, but the firm's agronomist eventually
developed profitable technology adapted to these soils. This farm has now
conclusively demonstrated that satisfactory yields can be obtained with the
four main crops indicated above. Today, the firm's choice of crops is
determined more in consideration of marketing rather than production
limitations.
4.       AGROCERES Farm (650 ha).  This farm belongs to the AGROCERES
company, the largest Brazilian firm producing certified seeds, with farms
in several parts of tkhi country. AGROCERES is located close to the main
pumping station EBI (see ittached map), on good alluvial soils. Only about
half of the irrigable area (300 ha) is presently irrigated and is mostly
producing seed rice.
5.       Mocambinho.  There are about 200 small-scale farmers in the
Mocambinho sub-perimeter, some of whom have been farming there for a few
years. They have been engaged mainly in rainfed production of bean and
cotton, with poor results (annual rainfall: 880 mm, 802 during the
November-March rainy season). They have been assigned plots of five ha
each in anticipation of receiving water for irrigation. In 1987, for the
first time, CODEVASF was able to install temporary pumping equipment in the
main canal and to provide water for the dry season campaign (April-
October). During the pre-appraisal mission in late September, 1987, some



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
600 ha were in irrigated bean production, and farmers were preparing to
follow this crop with cotton. Some parts of Mocambinho could not be
irrigated because of poor land levelling and bad canal layout.
Potential of the Project Area
6.       Soils.  Most soils are sandy (latosolic and podzosolic soils) with
the exception of the alluvial soils (Mocambinho area) bordering the Sao
Francisco River. Introduction trials carried out by EPAMIG and the
experiences of AGRIVALE and AGROCERES have shown that, after corrective
measures (application of lime and gypsum, increase of organic matter
content through green manure cultivation), and with sprinkler irrigation
(sur ace irrigation would be impossible because of too high infiltration
rates), these soils are adequat, to grow a wide variety of crops
(Appendix).
7.       Crops.  Considering the relatively low level of technology,
rainfed farms on the better soils in the region already produce
satisfactory yields of cotton and beans. Other crops which have shown
potential include onions, garlic, melon, watermelon, tomatoes, maize,
sorghum, asparagus, potatoes, carrots, peppers, cabbage, bananas, grapes,
mangos, papayas, citrus, passion fruit, and pineapple.  However, only those
for which a satisfactory market already exists or for which there is some
prospect of a market being developed in the not-too-distant future were
used in the farm models.  These include:  cotton, m ize, beans, vegetables
(onions, garlic), and tropical fruits (bananas, mangos, papayas).
8.       Farm Models.  Five models have been prepared to illustrate
conditions of production under the projev. three (Models 1, 2, 3) refer to
small farmers, two (Models 4, 5) refer to small and medium entrepreneurs
(see Table 2.1).
Model 1: Mainly light loamy sands (latosoils) located in sub-
perimeters A, B, and C3; these farms would have 0.6 ha available for their
house, farm buildings and pasture for one draft animal; soil preparation
would be done by JID and medium and large-scale farmers who would rent
tractors and tillage equipment.
Model 2: Essentially the same situation as in Farm Model 1 with
the exception of being on light sandy loams; these farms would benefit from
a slightly better quality of soil and would attain slightly higher yield
levels.
Model 3:  An existing 5 ha farm being developed within the
Mocambinho sub-perimeter; farmers operating these parcels already live in
houses in the main residential area located near the main pumping station;
surface irrigation is now practiced though it is planned to convert to
sprinkler irrigation later. Due to the better alluvial soils in the
Mocambinho sub-perimeter, farmers would grow a somewhat higher proportion
of high-value crops than farmers in Models 1 and 2.
Model 4: Consists of small-scale commercial farms; farmers chosen
to operate them would have higher qualifications than small farmers; they
would introduce high value cash crops early in the development process and
attain full development more quickly than small farmers in Models 1, 2, 3;



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
they would be mechanized and since they would not need their tractors
fulltime on their own properties, would perform custom work for others.
Model 5: Consists of medium-scale commercial farms and would
require the most highly qualified farmers; Larger than the Model 4 farms,
these farms would practice more extensive irrigated farming and would have
a lower proportion of high-value crops; like Model 4 farms, they would be
mechanized and use their equipment to perform custom services for smaller
farmers.
9.       Small farmers would receive a plot which would be ready for
cultivation and irrigation; entrepreneurs would be supplied with water at
the farm gate but would have to design, procure and finance on-farm
irrigation works, equipment and corrective _ertility measures either
through their own funds or credit operations.
10.      All soils will need corrective measures in order to r.ach
satisfactory levels of crop productivity. This will require applying lime
at the rate of 1.5 t;ha, gypsum at the rate of 1 t/ha, and simple
superphosphate at the rate of 800 kg/ha. Beginning in the first year, a
green manure crop will be grown on 1/5 of the area in crops each year.
Both crotalaria and velvet bean (mucuna) have been successfully used in the
area for this purpose and are recommended. Applications of nitrogen (N)
phosphorous (P205) and potassium (K) will be made as part of the fertilizer
program for each crop. Both N and P will be applied in fractionated doses
in order to diminish losses due to leaching. Lime and gypsum will be
applied to one-fourth of the total farm area each year to maintain soil
acidity and aluminum toxicity at innocuous levels.
11.      Double cropping will permit cropping intensity to reach 140 to
1522 at full development for small farms (Models 1, 2, and 3) and about
1602 for small and medium-scale commercial farms (Models 4 and 5). The
former would reach full development after five years while the latter would
take three years to attain peak production. Maximum yields for individual
crops would be attained in from three to five years after introduction of
that crop into the cropping pattern.
12.      In addition to background information on conditions of production
such as conditions of land acquisition (farms with irrigation equipment
installed and with a first application of lime and gypsum for small
farmers), methods of cultivation (animal drawn under Models 1, 2, 3, and
mechanized under Models 4, 5), housing (provision of construction materials
to small farmers), the attached Table 2.1 indicates the acreages per crop
achieved by each model at full development.
Production
13.      At full development (year eight of project implementation) the
value of incremental production would be over US$36 million annually. Of
this, 522 would be in relatively low value field crops, 102 in higher value
vegetable crops and 38Z in fruit crops. However, of the total area in
crops annually, 822 would be in field crops, 62 in vegetable crops and 122
in fruit crops.



-31 -                                        ANNEX II
Table 2.1
Page 4 of 7
(Full Development)
"IMDEL1           CDEL 2          MODEL 3          MODEL 4          MODEL 5
G Croae Area          he     5.61               56              5.0                28               60
-  Equipped Area      he     5.0                5.0             5.0                20               SO
- Cropped Area        h-     7.4                7.0              7.6               as               8t
- Cropping Intensity(%)       148               140              152              168              162
ha
- Cotton                     2.2               2 5              2.5               8. 
-   ize                        -                 -               1.0              6.0             an 0
- 8e ne                      2 7               2 4               2 2              8 0             30.0
- Onions                    0o.                 0.2            OS                1.               1.5
-  Orlic                      0 .2             0 .2              0.a               -
Bananas                  05                0:5              0:3               2:0             3S0
"a =ne                       -                 -                -               2.0              4.0
-  Papaya                    0.2                0.2               --
- Orgn Manure               ILJS               LQ                L 0S                             1&
TOTAL                 7.4               7.0              7.6             32.5             80.5
Libor Reaulreent.                 700              710              780            1.650            2,020
- Value of           US$    7,810            8.820            8,980           44,950            94,560
Production
- Net V Iue of
Production
o per fally       US$    3.,SC            4,690             4,090          23.170            58C6O0
oper h                      700              940              820            1160             1140
o per man x day             5.0             8.6               5.6             12.5 8.1
-  Financlal Rate   (1)         16              21               aS               21                19
of Raturn
B^eckaround
Sub-area                  ACS F           ACSC F         iMDCANBId            C2                C2
Beneficiary            Small Forears    Simll Farmer.   Small Farmer        Smaull            medium
Entrepreneurs     Entrepreneurs
Sollo                    Latoaolic       Podiosolic       Alluvial      Latoaolic (781)   Latosolic (T8M)
and              end
Podzoaol ic (22) Podzosol ic (221)
Cultivation            Animal draan2    Animal drwn2    Animal dramn2     Mechanized8       Mechanized8
Iabor
Land acquisitions
Irrigetion 6          Conventional    Con.entional    Conventional    Central Pivot    Central Pivot
equipment             sprinkler        sprinkiler       sprinkler        or other          or other
housing7               Construction     Construction    Construction
materials        materials        materials
1/ Includinf 0.6 ha for house and farm buildinus, pasture for one draft nimal, and not cultivable land (an form canals
and trc *).
I/ Number of years to achieve yield levela at field development.
2/ Eacept soil preparation to be done by tractor (60hp) rented from the Jaiba Irrigation Distr!ct or from entrepreneurs.
O One tractor (70hp) per fare.
J Hired and family (400 man days) labor.
Small farmer would receive a farm which would be ready for cultivation:  cleared of bush, equipped for Ir-lation,
(with corrective does of lime and gypsutm)
M/ Modern sprinkler irrigation techniques other than thoe indiceted would be tested and introduced If successful.
Z/ Smll farmers would build their houses (community works) using construction materials financed under the project;
with exception of Ho'adbinho where emsting farmers have already their houe in a residential arew.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Appendix
Page 5 of 7
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
1.       Most soils of the project area are sandy, and hence highly
permeable. Gravity irrigation of such soils would be prohibitively
expensive. Therefore, sprinkler irrigation is recommended. Various soil
surveys were carried out in the 1970's, before the construction of the
existing irrigation works, and in 1986, Pi part of the preparation of the
project. Crop yields expected from these soils are based on those achieved
by the private farm operated by AGRIVALE. This farm is adjacent to the
project area and located on similar soils. The present Appendix provides
some information on the soils characteristics, their distribution in the
project area and their aptitude for irrigation, as well as some information
on the AGRIVALE experience. More details are available in Project Files.
Soils Characteristics and Suitability for Irrigation.
2.       Almost all (97X) of the soils are sandy with a low water-holding
capacity: typically, less than 2cm equivalent of moisture is retained in
the top 40cm. The soils have adequate levels of organic matter when
covered with natural vegetation, typically ranging from 32 to 72 in the top
40cm; however, this level breaks down under cultivation with levels rapidly
declining to 12 or less. Cation exchange capacity is equally low with
levels seldom exceeding 15meq per lOOgr in the root zone for cultivated
crops. The soils are classified as latosolic or podzosolic depending on
their clay content, with the former having slightly more clay than the
latter. There are also small areas of alluvial sandy soils with slightly
better physical and chemical characteristics. The types and areas of these
soils are shown in the table below:
AREAS
TYPE OF SOILS            (HA)            2
Latosolic               17,302           77
Podzosolic               4,506           20
Others                     733            3
Total             20,6011         100
3.         The suitability of soils for irrigation in the project area has
been estimated according to land classification specifications made for the
western U.S.A. by the United States Bureau of Reclamation (USBR). This
classification system, however, was meant to be used mainly in conjunction
1/ Refers to sub-areas A, B, and C3 which would be allocated to small
farmers (5 ha) and CZ to small-scale (20 ha) and medium-scale (50 ha)
commercial farmers. See Feasibility study, Volume 1, pp. 77-82, and
Annex 1, pp. 6 and 7.



-33 -                         ANNEX II
Appendix
Page 6 of 7
with gravity irrigation.  It does not take into account the present-day
possibilities of sprinkler and drip irrigation. According to the USBR
system, the proportion of soils in the project area is as follows (in order
of declining suitability for irrigation):
PERCENT IN
CLASS2            DESCRIPTION                    PROJECT AREA
2           moderately suitable                      15
3           marginally suitable                      52
4           restr!cted suitability                   25
(suited only to special
crops or in special
circumstances)
5           unsuitable, pending
further study                           08
Total           100
4.       The majority of soils (772) are in Class 3 and 4.  Crop
productivity on these soils is limited by:
(a) high permeability and low water-holding capacity: this
requires short and frequent irrigation (daily during hot/dry
periods), use of low-volume sprinklers, and regular
incorporation of green manure to increase the organic matter
content and hence water-holding capacity;
(b) general unsuitability for gravity irrigation: either
sprinkler or drip irrigation must be used; and
(c) low natural fertility: these 3oils require corrective
applications of lime and phosphorus and relatively high
applications of fertilizers.
5.       These soils do have the advantage of being easy to cultivate and
pose no drainage problem. As a precaution, however, against unanticipated
difficulties with drainage, areas have been set aside to build a drainage
system in the future should this prove necessary. Fluctuations of the
water table levels would be monitored through the use of piezometers.
Experience of AGRIVALE and with the Nilo Coelho Irrigation Scheme.
6.       AGRIVALE is a private firm owning about 3500 ha, all located on
sandy soils adjacent to the project area. This firm has been farming part
of this land for about a decade. It now has 650 ha under irrigation, using
2/ FAO Soils Bulletin; Soil Survey Investigation for irrigation, prepared
with assistance from the Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Department of the
Iuterior; FAO, Rome, 1979.



_34 -                         ANNEX II
Appendix
Page 7 of 7
both central pivot systems and drip irrigation.  The irrigated area is
relatively small because AGRIVALE has been using only its own small pumping
station while -aiting for the project to provide water. Average yields
obtained are as .'J.lowst
YIELD
YIELD                               (T/HA)
Beans                                     1.8
Onions:  Bulbs                           30.0
Seed                            0.5
Peanuts                                   2.5
Grain Sorghum                             1.5
7.       The AGR,VALE experience shows also that both the organic matter
and clay content of Lhe irrigated soil are increasing over time, thus
improving its water holding characteristics.
8.       Crop production has been carried out in the Nilo Coelho perimeter
on sandy soils very similar to those in the Jaiba project area. This
perimeter is located near Petrolina in the State of Pernambuco. The
irrigation system is also pumping water from the Sao Francisco River.
Sprinkler and drip irrigation are used to produce a wide variety of crops,
including melons, watermelons, grapes and tomatoes for processing, and
yields achieved are satisfactory.



-35 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 8
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Extension and Farmer Training
Existing Situation
1.       At present, there are few residents in the project area.  These
are limited to about 200 families who have been living in the Mocambinho
sub-area for the past three years. Farmers have been producing rainfed
crops (cotton and beans) until last year when they began irrigating with
water pumped from the construction site into the main canal. Beginning in
August 1987, the pumps were regularly used for pumping trials, and the
Mocambinho farmers made good use of this water to irrigate beans on most of
the land cleared for cultivation. Surface irrigation was used, although
many of the fields were not well levelled and delivery canals were only
lined with plastic on a temporary basis. Nevertheless, RURALMINAS
authorities made seed and fertilizer available and the general level of
cultivation was acceptable considering that few farmers in the area had had
much experience with irrigated crops. Most farmers followed the crop of
beans with a crop of cotton planted in late 1987 or early 1988. A few
planted okra for seed production under contract to AGROCERES, Brazil's
largest private seed company. AGROCERES has about 650 ha adjacent to the
Mocambinho sub-area.
Target Population and Objectives
2.       In the project sub-areas other than Mocambinho, the project would
select about 1,800 farmers and settle them on three sizes of farms located
on two broad soil types as follows:
(a) 5 ha family farm on light loamy sands (latosolic soils);
(b) 5 ha family farm on light sandy loams (podzolic soils);
(c) 20 ha small commercial farms on light loamy sands; and
(d) 50 ha medium commercial farms on light loamy sands.
4.       Since most farmers who are likely to be selected as settlers have
little or no knowledge of irrigated farming, the extension and training
component would be indispensable for project success. All members of the
farm families to be settled on the 5 ha plots are expected to participate
in farm activities. Therefore, the project would aim to train these
families to become self-sustaining units. The 20 ha and 50 ha commercial
parcels would be awarded to farmers who already have some knowledge of
farming and the training provided to them would have somewhat different
objectives.
3.       The extension and training component would attempt to transfer
knowledge about the principles as well as to train people in the practical
aspects of the following subjects:



- 36 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 8
(a) scil fertility; economic fertilizer application and
maintenance of correct pH levels through regular liming;
(b) soil preparation, seeding and planting;
(c)  sprinkler irrigation practices and water management;
(d) effective weed control and use of herbicides;
(e) plant protection and safe and effective use of insecticides
and fungicides;
(f) improved harvesting and storage methods;
(g) economics of crop production; preparation of credit
applications;
(h) farm management for maximum profitability; and
(i) use of hand and shop tools, maintenance and repair of farm
machinery and irrigation equipment, simple farm carpentry and
blacksmithing.
Organization
4.       Extension agents would first develop farmer-leaders and then use
them to demonstrate correct farming practices to groups of 15-20 farmers.1
Most demonstrations would take place on the farmer-leaders' farms.
Although this extension effort would initially be directed toward
individual farmers, more emphasis would be given to group activities as the
number of settlers increase and as natural groups begin to form. Extension
activities rould be carried out by basic extension teams of one
agricultural agent and one social extensionist. Each socirl extensionist
would divide her time between the families covered by two agents.
Initially, the ratio of farmers to agent would be 40:1. As more families
enter the area, the ratio would increase to 60:1 (2 years), 100:1
(4 years), 200:1 (7 years, full development). In addition, three highly
qualified agents would be assigned to work with the small- and medium-scale
commercial farmers. On average, each extension agent would initially
contact four farmers per working day, contacting each one twice per month.
Agents would spend more time with farmer-leaders than with other farmers,
using the former as a bridge to reach the latter. For administration and
supervision, one supervisor would be assigned to each group of eight agents
of social extensionists. Overall coordination of extension activities
would be provided by one senior agricultural extension specialist based in
the Irrigation District's main office. The coordinator would have an
office, one secretary and an administrative assistant.
5.       Extension staff would live within the project area in one central
location. Housing would be provided by the project. Supervisory staff and
I/ Cooperatives that could participate in the project could provide some
extension agents (formerly civil servants), as well as some qualified
farmer-leaders.



- 37 -                        ANNEX III
Page 3 of 8
agents would be assigned pickup-trucks and motorcycles, depending on their
function and location.
Selection of a Private Firm
6.       There is a state organization in charge of extension services in
the state of Minas Gerais (EMATER-MG). However, because it is the Federal
and State Government's policy to shift from the public to the private
sector to assist in the development of irrigation projects, it was decided
that these services would be provided by a private specialized firm. Given
the magnitude of these services, the firm would be selected following an
international competitive bidding. Candidates would be Brazilian
cooperatives or consortia between Brazilian and foreign conselt'ng firms.
This procedure was used successfully for the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco
Irrigation Project (Loan 2719-BR), located in the state of Bahia. The
award of the-contract to provide extension services and training services
went to COTIA, a large cooperative whose headquarters are located in Sao
Paulo.
7.       Many consulting firms would be interested in providing the
extension and training services. However, given the magnitude of these
activities and their focus on sprinkler irrigated crops, not many would
have the required experience and qualifications. It is likely that most of
them would associate themselves with internationally reputable firms to
constitute consortia. There are also a number of successful cooperatives
in Brazil.
Training Center
8.       A trai.aing center would be constructed under the project.  It
would be located close to the pumping station EB2 on 50 ha and would serve
as a focal point for many extension and training activities. The center
would be provided with farm and irrigation equipment for farming four 10 ha
units. Farm equipment would include both mechanized and animal-drawn
machinery. The center would have a dormitory for 20 trainees, a cafeteria,
classroom, wood and metal working shops, machinery sheds, horse corrals and
separate housing for the center's director, two trainers and one watchman.
Facilities would be fully equipped before training begins. The project
would finance the construction of, and the salaries and operating expenses
for the center.
9.       Training Activities.  The first courses given in the center would
be to the extension staff, then to farmer-leaders. The object would be to
completely familiarize the trainees with the problems and solutions
particular to irrigated crop production and to teach them an adapted
extension methodology. All trainees, both agents and farmer-leaders, would
spend sufficient time in the center to carry out one complete irrigated
crop cycle (90-120 days). Trainees would be expected to manage and provide
most of the labor for production of a 2 ha plot as though it were their own
farm. They would carry out both mechanized and animal-traction operations
under the guidance of professional trainers. Each trainee would assume
responsibility for soil preparation, seeding, weeding, crop protection,
irrigation and harvesting. Trainees would keep a record of inputs and



- 38 -                         ANNEX III
Page 4 of 8
receipts and from these they would calculate crop profitability. Costs
incurred by the center would be reimuursed by trainees at time of harvest.
Any "profit' on the operation would be retained by the trairsees. The
center would train 40 agents during the first year of project
implementation and about 160 farmer-leaders during the following four
years. These, in turn, would train 2,000 farmers.
10.      Other Activities.  After the agents and farmer-leaders had been
trained, the director of the center would be responsible for organizing a
program of vocational training and activities for rural youth. In doing
so, he would draw upon the experience of similar centers and activities in
other countries. Additional activities would include short-term (one or
two weeks) courses for farm wives in nutrition, home sanitation, family
planning, home gardening, production of small animals (chickens ar.d
rabbits), and simple farm and home accounting useful in managing the
farming operation.



BRAZIL
JAIDA TRRTOATION PROJECT
Settlement of Benefiiearies
SUB-AREA   F.M.                              1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1995    1996    TOTAL
t1/
a. Small Farmers
ABCa        1   Latosolic soile2/    Sho  per year   150      220     280     890      110      -       -       -       -
cumulative  160     570     650   1,040   1,160   1,160   1,160   1,160   1,160
2   Podzosollc solls2/   She      -       40      eo       80     110      g0      -       -        -       -
0      40     100     180     290     820      820    820      820     320
MOChMBINIO  8   Mocamblnho8/         She      200     200     2C0     200     200     2C0      200     200     200     200
F               Area F4/             She      170     170      -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -
170     340     840     840     840     840      840     840     840     840
Total Small Farmers        870     730   1,010   1,370   1,870   2,010   2,010   2,010   2,010   2,010
b. Entrepreneurs
4   Smell                20he     -        20      70      90      90      -       -       -        --
270
C2                                            -        20      90     180     270      -        -       -       -       -
S Medium                 Soho     -       10       10      20     8G               -       -        -       -
-       10      20      40      70      80       80      80      80      80
Total Entrepreneurs         -       SO     110      220     840     850     850     350     860      36O
TOTAL BENEFICIARIESE/        870     760   1,120   1.690   2.210   2 L90   2.BBO   2.360   23B0   2 .3B0
1/ F.M. N :  Farm Model Number.                                                                                                       ¢ >
!/  Distribution of soils in ABCg and C2: 76X latosolic; 221 podzosolic.                                                            n  i
l/ iocambinho; benfficinr;es already settled.                                                                                      ° _ H
W/ Pilot scheme; settlement forecost. by CODEVASF.                                                                                       F
!/  The ex'sttng farms of AGRIVALE and AGROCERES to be added.                                                                      co



- 40 -                        ANNEX III
APpendix
Page 6 of 8
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Settlement of Beneficiaries, Extension and Training Services
Preliminary Terms of Reference
Background
1.       The Federal Government of Brazil has obtained a loan from the
World Bank to build a 23,600 ha first-phase irrigation system near MANGA,
in the Northeast corner of the Minas Gerais State. The annual rainfall in
the project area amounts to about 880 mm concentrated mainly from November
to March. Most soils of the project area are sandy and are suitable for
cultivation only under sprinkler irrigation. Experiencel in the project
area shows that crop production in these soils could be profitable
providing it is accompanied by excellent water management and use of sound
agronomic policies.
2.       The Jaiba Irrigation District (JID) has been created from the
inception of the project to involve its members, i.e., all water users, in
the implementation of the project. About 2,000 small farmers (colonos) and
350 small and medium entrepreneurs would be settled on farms of 5 ha &nd 20
or 50 ha, respectively. Most small farmers would have little, if any,
experience in sprinkler irrigation and would therefore need extension and
training assistance, especially to grow sprinkler-irrigated crops.
Offices, houses and a training center would be built under the project to
carry out these services. The firm will assist JID in settling
beneficiaries, and in providing the extension and training services to the
small farmers.
The Settlement Process
3.       The land within the project area belongs to the state of Minas
Gerais and to the Ministry of the Agrarian Reform and Development (MIRAD),
and is administered by the Foundation Rural Mineira for settlement and
rural development (RURALMINAS), whose headquarters are located in Belo
Horizonte. On behalf of JID, the firm would select small farmers and
entrepreneurs (according to criteria which have been duly established) and
settle them on 5 ha and 20 ha or 50 ha, respectively. The settlement
process would have to take into account the fact that a iarge portion of
candidates would apply through cooperatives. In that case, services that
the firm would provide should be complementary to those that the
cooperative already intends to provide. In this process, the firm should
facilitate the development of increased responsibilities by the
cooperatives. The settlement procedures would have to comply with federal
1/ There are two large firms already established in the Project area:
AGRIVALE (3,500 ha) with about 250 ha under central pivot irrigation,
and AGROCERES (650 ha) with about 70 ha irrigated for seed production.
Neither of these firms would need technical assistance.



- 41 -                        ANNEX III
Appendix
Page 7 of 8
and State of Minas Gerais regulations, available at RURALMINAS. The
selected firm would assist small farmers in obtaining agricultural credit
(investment and short-term credit). The settlement plan calls for the
following timetable; indicating the cumulative number of beneficiaries
during the settlement period.
1988     1989       1990      1991       1992        1993
Small Farmers        370      730      1,010     1,370      1.870       2,010
Entrepreneurs         -        30        110        220       340         350
Extension Services to Small Farmers
4.       Small farmers will grow essentially field crops (beans and maize),
vegetables (garlic, onions) and fruit trees (mangos, bananas, papayas) to a
lesser extent. The firm should become acquainted with farm budgets which
are available at CODEVASF. As already indicated, soils are sandy and will
require a somewhat sophisticated water management to provide small but
repeated irrigation doses and to minimize water losses to the a-uifer
(percolation). Vari*us techniques would be tested, including those
minimizing farmers' intervention In water delivery (travelers). Main areas
for which farmers would require extension services and training include:
(a)  soil fertility; economic fertilizer applications and
maintenance of correct pH levels through regular liming;
(b)  soil preparation, seeding and planting;
(c)  sprinkler irrigation practices and water management;
(d)  effective weed control and use of herbicides;
(e)  plant protection, and safe and effective use of insecticides
and fungicides;
(f)  improved harvesting and storage methods;
(g)  economics of crop production;
(h)  farm management for maximum profitability; and
(i)  use of hand and shop tools, maintenance and repair of farm
machinery and irrigation equipment, simple farm carpentry and
blacksmithing.
5.       The technical proposal of the firm should cortsider: (a) ratios of
farmers per extension worker increasing from 40 (year .) to 60 (year 2),
100 (year 4) and 200 (year 7 onward); (b) training of most extension
workers before they are assigned to work with farmers; and (c) extension
staff are expected to live within the project area (offices, houses to be
provided by JID).  The firm will propose a complete team (coordinator,



- 42 -                         ANNEX III
Appendix
Page 8 of 8
supervisors and extension workers) fully equipped to carry out the
extension services (vehicles, supplies). The proposal will indicate how
t!se team will be organized.
Training of Extension Agents and Farmers
6.       The training center of the project, where 20 individuals can be
trained simultaneously, will be available for the firm to carry out its
training activities. The firm will propose a training program for
extension agents and for farmers. The firm will propose a methodology for
training adults, whose objective should be to maximize the production of
the small farmer.
Social Services, Organization of Farmers
7.       Social services will include sensitizing farmer's families to
education, health and household management. This task is usually performed
in Brazil by women (called social assistants), who simultaneously further
farmers' organizations. The firm will indicate how it intends to carry out
this task.
Vocational Training for Farm Youth
8.       Once extension agents and farmers have been trained, the project
foresees that rural youth would receive a program of vocational training.



- 43 -                                            ANNEX IV
Chart 4.1
Page 1 of 3
iiAZIL
JAIdA IRRIOATION PROJECT
Coner.l Ornanliation
Ihior Agreemtnts - Contracts 1/
o   ,Mlsltry of Irrigtlon                                                                       Qovernm*nt of the State
oMHlnistry of; Aer%riT!n                                                                             of Hin,- cQr-ia
Reform and Devwelpmetnt                                                                             - -i-)~
COil;9AiF !/                           JAIbA IRRIGATION DISTRICT                          o Planning Secretariat
Htl dquart rs In                                       SioD1
Brailia                   (b)                                                                  -Rural Hinm 
-Joiet   Ccordinst-                             I Owners; H tneg r                              *Coordintotlne 
Ina Unit (I)                          I                                                          Comissi;on
Aduinistration   Operation and  |AOriuItural |                 Finances Secretar at
Joibe FIV                ~~Finance.      Haneac             oution                    Education Secretariat
un It (II  ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       8                                    -Health Secretariat
J      J                   - ~~~~~~~Public Secretariat
(e)          -  ~~~Contractore,
-Sfupp I  i-r-
Consultants, C GII. ENMRAPA-EPAFIG
Projt   Beneficiaries (S mll farmers and agricultural entreprenurs)
Ic)
MMiNI?AUQ
I/ According to Brazilian terminology. asreements and contract involve public and private entities, reepectively.
I   Project Executing Agncy: general adminietratlon (finance.. procurement. technical assistance)
(I) Coordination, monitoring *nd evaluation;
(ii) Supervislon of works. folw-up of project execution, operation and mointenance of main irrigation system.
/  Operation *nd maintenance of irrigation work. (with exception of main Irrigation system) eub-contracted to private
apecialized fire.
A/ Support services to farmer  (extension, training, marketing, mocal aervicca); sub-contracted to private specialized
ft vms.
/ Coordination of activities of the state of Nina. Corals (malo of land, operation and maintenance of ocial
infrastructure worki), under Planning Secretarlat general eupevision.
AGRa4MS - CENTRCTS
(a)  Cnaral Agreeaent (February 1988)
(b) COOEVASF-JID Contract
(c)  COVASP-R^URALMS    Agreemnt
(d)  JID Sub-Contracts (Conailtents)
(e)  CIOEtASF Agreents (CiIQD. 840RAPA-EPAMIQ) and Contrects (Consultants)
(f) Jlb- District (October 197)



- 44 -                          ANNEX IV
Chart 4.2
Page 2 of 3
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CODEVASF
Organization Chart
r-', r -   L 



- 45 -                                                 ANNEX IV
Chart 4.3
Page 3 of 3
BRAZIL
J 'BA IRRIGATION PROJECT
RURALMINAS
Organization Chart
_. ...... ........
Iow       I
:a. :niu
I_..._ _ _...._....._........................_....
so  I
g : ___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .............._...
afta   m M.                                 aa  um. du
I   IUMM   a:     a:                               :   ""a ttt   :
2 flU. lInES L:I.... --   -. --:.
W I                                                                                                                      Om
| I : :_ .... _:
z~~a_____  .                                                  :....~....:_. :
a ________ * a~~~:........ __ __....
* ~ ~    ~ :tl.9S.                                     :            : £IIg        :                                                               8e
*~ ~~~ U2S"b                               t             :WSS :ttft
a~~ ~ tus                           _      :         .    at ma       a.. C
*  .  .                  .     .               taa       I           :            ;      ;                 a :
amb*~ ~~ I   :*S 25                          2                          15                                          22
_  _ _ _ _, ____~~~~2                                               ..a..........................;  ..........................:......... . ......... __...._._ .......  f_._



- 46 -                                                  ANNEX V
Table 5.1
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
..... ..... ..... ..  . .     ..I...     . .
I total
x Foresgn Base
tocal foreign lotal Exchange   Costs
A. JAIS IRlRIGAlION Sl:HIE
.      ........................    ....
1. IRRIG*IION NC2US                         51.4      3 4  54.8            6      44
2. ttECIRICAI 1S                              9.2      1. 4  10 5         13        8
3. ROADS                                      S 3      03   S.6           6        4
.. .   . . .   . .   . ....  ....    .
So-Flotal JAIBA IRRIG  IION SCHEMIN            b5.9       5. I 70.9           7       57
JAI3A IRRICAIIt3N OISIRICI
......... .................... .........
I  OISIRICI CREcA1011                        3 3      0 1   3 4            3        3
2. SUPPMRI SERVICtS 10 FARMERS               16 9      3.2  20.2          16       16
3. OPERAfIIN AND N*INIINAlCE                 12.6      4 0   16 6         24       13
Sib loael JAI"  IIWIGAIION DISIRICI             32.8      7 4  40 2          la       32
C. APPIIEO 3IRCUltURAt RESEARCH                  3.2      0.8   4 0          20        3
O. l.A.. IRAINING AIND SIUDIES                   8. 3     2. 1  10 4         20        8
total MASLitNE CLSIS                             110.2    15. 3 125.b          12      100
Physical Contingence                           14 7      2 0  16 7          12       13
Price Continge,nes                             13.3      2.2  15.5          14       12
total PilOJLCI COStS                             131.2    19.6 157. 8          12      12b
5:::S: s::*:ss ::::: ,n:,:.;:    :::s
........... ......   ........ ... ............    .......... .... ............
Iarch 30. 193U tEt lb



- 47 -                                             ANNEX V
Table 5.2
Page 2 of 3
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Pro1ect Components by Year
(US$ Million)
lot, I
Base Costs 
,,-- ........................    ........ .   ..   -      -Uss
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 199S 1996   USS  NIlion)
Ts: Sn. :::: *1.: :::: :.:  : S ::                      .
A  JA184 IRRIGAIION SCHIIIE
............  .....
I IURIGAIION WORKS                       0-2    1 8  4. 8 21 9 7 S  0.3  0 30 3  0.3   54 8       54 8
2. IIECIRICAI IlORKS                           1.  4 0  1 5  1.6  1.1  0.8                10S      10 
3. ROADS                                      0.8  2.2  2. 1 0. S    -                    56        5 6
-. ..-. .... .. .. .... .... .. .. . . .
Sub Total JA1IB  IRRIGAIION SCHElt          0.2 11.2 21 0 25.S  9.9  1 4  1. I 0 3  0.3   709         70 9
B. JAIBA6 IRRIGAIBN DISIRICI
... ....... ... ..... ... .. .
1. DISIRICI CRtAIIOl                       - 0.5  0.4  0.4  0.4  0. 4  0.4  0.4  0. 4    3.4        3 4
2. SUPPGRI SERVICES 10 IARMNRS           0.6  3.0  4 3  3 8  2 9  2 0  1 4  1.2  I t  20 2         20 2
3. OPERAII8ON AND 1AININEANCt            0.4  1. 3  1.9  1.7  2. 2  2. 2  2.3  2.3  2.4   16.6     16 6
Stub-Jotl  JA6184 IRRIGAIION DISIRICI         9  4.8  6 6  5.9  5.4  4 6  4 t 3 9  3 8   40 2         40 2
C. APPIIED AGRICUITURAl RESEARCH             1.1  0 4  0.4  0 4  0 4  0.4  0.4  0 4  0 4    4 0        4 0
0. T.A.. TRAINING AND SIUDIfS                1.3  3. 1  2.2  1 5  0.7  0.6  0.4  0. 3 0.2   10 4      10.4
total BASEillI COSTS                          3.6 19 6 30.2 33.2 16 4  7.0  5.9  4 9  4.7  125 6    125 6
Physical Contingencies                     0.6  2.7  4.2  4 S  2 1 0 9  0.7  0.5  0 5   16.7         16 7
Price Contingencies                        0.0  0.7  2 1 3 7  2.6  1.5  1 6  1 6  1.S  15              155
1o0al PROJICI COSIS                           4 1 23 0 36.4 41 4 21 1 9.3  8 2  7 1 7 1  157 8    l57 8
::  : s.:  1st  ..:::: . .   .fl - .-  ... --- . ..
lotxes                                     03  2 3  4.2  4.5  2 2  0.1 06 06 4  04   15b             11b
foroign Exchiange                          08  2. 5  3 7  3 9  2. 7  IA  1 6  1. 4  1. 4   19 b      19 6
.    .    ............   .............    ............................    ..    .    ...    .........    ...    ..    .    ..    .......
herch 30. 1988  18:15



- 48 -                                          ANNEX V
Table 5.3
Page 3 of 3
BRAZIL
JAIRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Suumorz Account by Proiect Component
(USS '000)
_!1".101MVINF1   tael  *sl
--| -----110 ;----------      *--lwA - ----------------
IM" -   a acon-A                                                                                                  ...  .. .
mm                     am         el       ft            lltX             wi         siw*fs        total *ua        _tu  
~~~~~~~... .......                                          ....*$  ...s *8* $$ ^ .......-+ *....... .s..s  .........*
1. ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ MS  EMIUlIStil tSSE .. :
........... ....
£. CIVlt S
...........
IlouosIN  oSs                  31.M                         . . I     -            .              .                                                4.0 3 6  00  405.0
E&E1Om l                                               L  31 ht.4   ..  ,,                                                             11,t1S   1t.0 e 3  s
;UtUKSlialo                        C"  MAS                                   *nX tZt.                        1"                              St. S   3e  s  se
ouitiLIUs                        4. 11.. a                        112.4      4014.01          141.0          la*,           M 16   101241.0 s  tO     l%3C.
ith-lal CIVILt 30tS 011             1.?1 S      2. SOS,.4  1.1.     t1.4        4.04S            141.I                        to. a   41L "I.0  l00 1e  * .u 
s. tiwlimu;
titCllC  t I     IS iuIl               *     ,421A          *         *,43S S   e0  1.243 2
EMulIGlO   etouiP               11.141.                               -                                         *- E. lt. 141.3  I. e .I                  I
@11ttU t0UIII                     E4. e                22.        41 0      1. 1 t 26        14. 2         436 4 *1o4 3*06. I  0 o    33 .6
kh-lotul t1011i01                  II. 11.3    1141.11   21.S         41.0      1101.6           134.2         43.4           106.4   Mt1   11 E      S Mu40
C. w .A. *uaiuts1s     S. IlIIS                       -        *-        -            *              -                     & in.S    I.MS  IS Of 1.  14
a0*la  EUVInSI03U  ClS               1O.U2.0    10120.0  1.11.4        1433       0t7t.6212        0101           31.234.5             84.0on4  13.0 11.0122
It atasut costs
A. COISuilMts                      I. 16.0                                    1te311.        12.192.4       x 40.9         1.M0?     7,A4 a  El 0  4.412 1
t  58IA0I1S                        2.41tS  0 S                .         7                           .              .                 *.93ei   00         00
C  001681166 CASES                   201.0                          to0. 2                    3.14M.I                                3. On b   S 0    19b 
10101 ECURBIU COSIS                   X.04L.I                     -  3.206        13th. a        is.1in. I       .4010         1.10?.?    RE. 1:3 I  SI. I t 000.3J
lolalUB aSilIIf Cesrs                 W.MS         10. S260 s   .611 4   3.4033    20. 14 0        6L   6        4.031 I      103. S"   I1.0 1S3  13 3 18.601 4
Ph.,scul Conti aVW.eg               *.0e0.0      1.S".0   0Ng 1        n36 I     2.311          2.0S 1teu                    1.11*S4,40  16.5S1 4   00    0.0
Price Conthnfles                    S.13u6.1   1.20        4302      110.       29. 0.4        1411.3          10. 3          M8.?  IS.1034  1 1    1.120
.   .. ...... .... ....... ...... !!... ...... ............   ..........  ............... ....... ..... .. ........   ..............  .... ........... .....
'oti PUlCI CtOSIS                      61.242 0    1331,.0 a . 930.   4.010 2       0. 0n0.       22.122.4       S.20.        12.0)4.0   W1 .I11.1 It. 4411.4
..                                .        *         ....    .. .    . ....  .... -...  - .....  ..........  ........ .......... - ..  . . ......   .........
.0 4s       2,?16.4     n 13     fi6e 0     1. "?. I       I'm0a           322.6         OK6I   lb.165I  11.0  .143.0
foreign LEchehg                      4.14 *4    1.)1. 0    006.0    104.9        4.21.2         13. .42.      1.04..         3100.9   19.0S   1I.?  1.2M2 0
........................................ .................................................................     ..        .      . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .....
March 30. #281 1Ss 1



- 49                                         ANNEX VI
Table 6.1
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule 1/
_m                    t90       l"        lm         l        -t9                    9
AMCAnul A9iSO                                      4 9O                  0
CZut.61v.                           @80M                         10 ;                                       W7       7,#i
2iiO 5, SOO   7,         9,480      9, 400    9, 400    9,400O    9, 400
F                                       1,70I       , ..1.                        1710      1,7101
Fecumbinho                                                                                -- -SO
TOTAL PROJECT               wSO     2           .      -        890  4                W61 17 70  _ i     _
8;"0 @,EliO 11,~~4SO177ti   940 1,v940 19,490    19,490
(AGRIVALE)                                                                                                               3.80
(AOCERE)                                                                                                                   680
TOTAL NET                                                                                                            23,640
28,000
A/ According to CODVASf timetabla.
V Converslen from surface to sprinkuler Irrigaton.
A/ Wat/Orooo Area - 0.88 (*ra.. for Irrigation electrical works, roadc, gro-Induetries, JID faci Ilti.).



-50 -                          ANNEX VI
Table 6.2
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ Million)
BANK                       DISBURSED   CUMULATIVE
FISCAL       QUARTER         DURING    DISBURSEMENT           z         BALANCE
YEAR        ENDING          QUARTER       AMOUNT        OF TOTAL       OF LOAN
1989    Dec. 31, 1988         0.0           0.0              0           71.0
Mar. 31, 1989         3.01/         3.0             4           68.0
June 30, 1989        2.0-           5.0             7           66.0
1990    Sept. 30, 1989        2.5           7.5             11           63.5
Dec. 31, 1989         2.5          10.0            14           61.0
May, 33, 1990         2.5          12.5            18           58.5
June 30, 1990        2.5           15.0            21           56.0
1991    Sept. 30, 1990        4.0          19.0             27           52.0
Dec. 31, 1990         4.0          23.0            32           48.0
Mar. 31, 1991         4.0          27.0            38           44.0
June 30, 1991        4.0           31.0            44           40.0
1992    Sept. 30, 1991        4.0          35.0             49           36.0
Dec. 31, 1991         4.0          39.0            55           3Z.0
Mar. 31, 1992         4.0          43.0            61           28.0
June 30, 1992        3.0           46.0            65           25.0
1993    Sept. 30, 1992        3.0          49.0             69           22.0
Dec. 31, 1992        2.0           51.0            72           20.0
Mar. 31, 1993         2.0          53.0            75           18.0
June 30, 1993        2.0           55.0            77           16.0
1994    Sept. 30, 1993        2.0          57.0            80            14.0
Dec. 31, 1993        1.0           58.0            82           13.0
Mar. 31, 1994         1.0          59.0            83           12.0
June 30, 1994        1.0           60.0            85           11.0
1995    Sept. 30, 1994        1.0          61.0            86            10.0
Dec. 31, 1994        1.0           62.0            87            9.0
Mar. 31, 1996         1.0          63.0            89            8.0
June 30, 1996        1.0          64.0             90            7.0
1996    Sept. 30, 1994        1.0          65.0             92            6.0
Dec. 31, 1994        1.0          66.0             93            5.0
Mar. 31, 1996         1.0          67.0            94            4.0
June 30, 1996        1.0          68.0             96            3.0
1997    Sept. 30, 1996        1.0          69.0            97             2.0
Dec. 31, 1996        1.0           70.0            99            1.0
Mar. 31, 1997         0.5          70.5            99            0.5
June 30, 1997        0.5          71.0            100            0.0
1/ Special Account deposit of US$3.0 million.



IM3    1119   3990191    39M             399 M I"          t  1991 96   39"7   1090   0999  M          0 3000 90     20 3   04   20      la0   200      M0     290       2010   2011   201
WI0 (MM3 K090r31                   -26.0  -16.  -103.7  -4404  -412.4  200.0  71.0  3267.0  3417.0  3192,  1114.0  3449.9  1321.2  1229.0  3195.0  34907.6  049.?  1410.8  016?.?  0127.4  09.9  gill0 5    21.9  367.?  0127.
390010101A. PIIEIS                 -36.6  -133.0  -303.?  -q04o.  .432.4    .66.   233.0  126 1.0  3 1  249.0  3504.0  199.9  3206.2  0229.0  3315.0   Mt7.  049.?  3041.  3261.? 3351.4  309.0  301.o   1210.9  136?.?, M15.3
313uwm cmrs
ius tm;z      5                      0.9  M7Y.  797.6  33011.2  4301.9   16.9   16.9   36.9   16.9
anmz..                      -   10.1~~~~~~~~~M    397.3   74.11  76.1   13.6   174 
-                           -  ~~~~~~~~~~46.3  139.2  Its.?   273
MORE,9 MAIMS                                2 00   3902.0          20.9   12.3   20.6   20.6 20.6        29.6   20.6   20.6   20  .6 20  .610  31   20.6   20.6   30.6   20.6   20.0   20.0   20.6   20.6    210.6  210.b   29.s
s    03   t0  V1390   43491. 350.0  166.0  312.7  330. 1 307.0   04.3   X30.    10.0                       .0   29.0   3M.    39.0   39.0   19.0   39,0   39.0   09.0   39.0   39.0   09.              19.0   :9.0   19 I
Ilm M. U21         006303      23.0   30.9   36.0   35.2   20.0   37.    32.?   12.9   12.9    9.           6.1    5.0    3.1    35        0.5    3.)1    3.5    3.5    3.1    3.        3.1    0.5       2.5    0.5    1.5                  6
MAL4 3M146I MM1                    '7.9  41.0  1312.9  13300.7  717.0  240.5  394.0  134.7    d.?   07.6   65.1   54.6   43.1   42.3   43.3   M3S   43.0  43.    43.3   43.3   43.    42.3 k                   20    0.    02.3 .1
- -. - ---- ----.                                                                                                                            ... ............... 
10T4  2131974  31T 13011            309.5  -9M.0 -3627.6 -2102.0  1109.5   19.5  211.2  0112.1 3309.3  1.4  044.7  I3.3  V327.1 3I059  3313.9  3414.1  314.6  0230.5  13124.6  13341.3 140.0  136.9  .~122.11 .:L4.8 214.1                                 -
.. ......   ....... .......P
.   .....   ....  ................ ~ ~ ~ ~ '
0       :2
t     4090O t, of  t...,. of 0.1 Street                                                   0901            3,'S.3    0.340.0    3.011.?    3,430.?         2'95        323.0   -3,2994.0      040.0      010.3      23'            o,      4
. ......-tip 01                                                                                                 '0217     MM,17.     1.64M.     2,065.0       230.!      -242:.2    -.19,65.    i34.       -187.3     -561.3
433?                  1331.6                                                                     00 l0t             S2'.1      309.6    0,20.0    2,309A.        -105.4      64.02-    2M.02,       -031.1     -s"02.     -932.9         CS      00       5
99 531    *739*9     -20'.3       301.3    2.602,5   '0.232.?   -0.104.'   -3.022.1    1.220.0   -3.649.0   -2,029.0 ~~~~~~~~~~.013  1851    3,0.  -3.    74.  C....
NW  30C         1,434,0    3,906.4    NY.37.?      3'096.3      941.1      M09.       -920.3      465.0       144.0       164.0                        020
PM20            3,790.6    2,272.0    2.704,5    0.163.9    1.327,3         0514.7    -562.'    0.31,4        999.6      529.6                  c- 
9-esgt ys081*   St# at M1191       ,3                                                              30             206,       3.368.?      .43,1114    5,.250,   2,2. .4       53O  M     534.2    2.420 3    2.1006.1   J1.626.5                  0 
0701  :.060.D                                                            10021331~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ut   TA                                                                       8  6731    61.3
LAO 313 TM-                                                                                            .                  1M12
. ..........                                                                                                    ovItIm.W totS OF UT1W1 OF lo Sr.1A5
0174.24.61            3.636.27      -22.611                                             0001              33.000      3.4.5      01.00'      0'.'93     12.530      33.33       6.702     32.433      II."01     10.122                                               00 12  Z0
up 30?           12.632         in00     3403       06.049     3052        00.3"       S. 44      ti 124     00S19        9.004                                             3Q W' Z
.1'??  '.'*.   0-728.61  29.722                                      09202             30.76      32.73'      13.600     35.459      39.605      9.539       0.913     30.120 9. ,003          9.93250 MM I'm  941  9 
010 M             9.534      3040 00a       .73     02.000      0.471       '.3.24     Z.90,       0.0017     '.49        7.409
........................                                                                        M   tax3000      4.692      !5.0.'6     06.510      MM00      132.40      32.003       '. 20     133,29      32.330     33.10 S. 
at0 h9rf0t  1.. St =5  U?1  0.I'0.?                                                               No20?             15.959      6.995      1'."0      20.99       14.202     13.600       0.8172    34.509      33.32      12.325                                              0       6
lotend. Pat. of Ra.-.9    1.?                                13503W                                                Z972        ..9          2.506     Z 3. '2'    30.069     30,064      03.600     I0.96      31.444      16.130                                               41*6
'300 Luwslart *.t# :100 fWOOSPet.,.                                                                                                                                             -       3.61       2.43
LAG I9                           .                       .-                                       1.64          . lit    11407



- 52 -                       ANNEX VII
Table 7.2
Page 2 of 2
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Prices (Cruzados)l/
_                 j           PRICE
PRODUCT          |       UNIT       I Financial      Economic7/
Agricultural Products    I                  |             I
Cotton (Exported)                 kg             28.00         29.3031
Maize (Imported)                  kg              5.00         16.30
Inputs (Imported)         I                 I             I              I
Urea                      1       kg        j   23.00    I   23.71
Triple Superphosphate             kg             2 25.00    I   21.30
Potassium Chloride                kg             10.00    I   15.50
| Labor                  I    man x day   |        110 l       110.0
Energy                    I       kwh       I   0.738          1.643
All other inputs/outputs I                  I      _
1/ As of February 1, 1988.
21 Economic prices of agricultural products and inputs are estimated in
1988 constant prices (Bank pro'ections as of January 27, 1988);
calculations assume exportslimports through Salvador port.
31 Calculations assume following ratios: lint/seed = 0.33.



;  53 -                       AtiNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Documents Available in Proiect Files
1.   Projeto Jaiba; estudo de viabilidade (glebas ABC3 e C2)
(Jaiba Project Feasibility Study).
Volume 1 - Relat6rio basico
Volume 2 - Antlise economica-financeira
Volume 3 - Planos
Volume 4 - Anexos.
2.   Projeto Jaiba - Etapa 1; Previs§o de custos de implantaq&o (jan. 88)
(Cost Estimates).
3.   Nota sobre estimativa de custos do perimetro C2
(Cost estimates of sub-area C2).
4.   Reporte a Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco para o
fornecimento de energia elftrica ao Projeto Jaiba (CEHIG, fev. 88)
(Energy Supply to the Jaiba Project; CEMIG proposal).
5.   Projeto de pesquisa para o n6cleo de colonizasao do Projeto Jaiba
(HECTA, 1986)
(Marketing of the Jaiba Project Production).
8.   Jaiba Irrigation Project; marketing.
9.   Sistemc de monitoramento de impacto ambiental do sistema de irrigaq&o
no distrito agro-industrial de Jaiba/Manga/MG (CETEC, 1986)
(Monitoring of the environmental impact of the Jaiba project).
MKios fisico e biol6gico
Situarao amb'ental atual
10. Regimento interno da CODEVASF
(CODEVASF regulations).
11. Concepqao do distrito de irriga9Ao de Jaiba (HECTA, jul. 1987)
(Design ef the Jaiba Irrigation District).
Documento No. 1: Concepsao, estatutos
Documento No. 2: Anexos
12. Project Organization and Technical Assistance and Training Component;
working paper (A. Tobelem, Feb. 1988).
13. File "Jaiba Irrigation Project; Major Agreements".



FORESTRY            s           *           .          
SO- hAWk. CESICSO                                                      coo~-A             .NRESERVE  r    5ft,;    CQ
BRAZIL
JAIBA IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                                                             '                                                                                          - /
1~~~~-1       BR  A,ZP
T.~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mm.                                                                                                                                             . e . M ,
< E . t R.U,.n.,, .h   \   _   //    .            X,           ~~~~~~~                                                                                         ~5~                  *                 2.
S-  hec.re
I  1,t        20 bW                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fan.
,J  EXPANSION                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRtANSPORTATION SYSTEM  IRRIGATION SYSTEM
AREA>                                                                                                                                                                                             E   ;  itK! tsziesin3qk)               Rxsivng
Roads                                    Primary canal
Praposed                                    Main pmuping stations
Roads- .0 m:.  idth          -          Propeo   y cendas
Roads. 6. 0 3.5 m. width                  S    ondranals
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ml brige                                                                       Tetir -  -as
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM                            Qanternary canals
..   .. PiFen
E"nintng                          0        Roster pumeping station,
hedom                                                     -       T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roesvntssion line (138 kV)  ( Automratic hydraulic gate.
form                                                        0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Power substotim, (t. be rinforcd)
Distribution lien (13.8 kSV)    ____          badne
o   Power Sobstotions                     Sas-crea budre
State boundaries
SCALiE 1: 100,000             --International boondarsen
APRft



