Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 3013 BR
(Jaiba Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO
VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO
Dated May 31, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3013 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO 
(CODEVASF).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent  to seventy-one million 
dollars ($71,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that CODEVASF agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS by an agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into  between 
the Borrower through the Ministry of Agriculture and CODEVASF, the  proceeds of the 
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to CODEVASF on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS CODEVASF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)  have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CODEVASF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end,  shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in  conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, agricultural,  irrigation and environmental standards and 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. CODEVASF shall enter into, and duly perform, all its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CODEVASF 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the  effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning, waiving or failing to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions  of the Schedule to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. CODEVASF shall carry out, and cause to be carried out, the  
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of  the 
General Conditions (relating, respectively, to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect 
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) CODEVASF shall maintain a project coordinating unit  with 
organization, structure and functions, including a Project Manager  assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers, all acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
CODEVASF, through the Project Coordinating Unit, shall carry out, and 
monitor and evaluate the carrying out of, the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) CODEVASF shall enter into a Coordinating Agreement with each 
Executing Entity under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,  including the 
following terms and conditions:
(i)
General Terms and Conditions.
 
Each Coordinating Agreement shall include provisions, inter alia, 
that 
CODEVASF shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan 
available to each 
Executing Entity in order to carry out a Part or 
Parts of the Project, but 
only on condition that each such 
Executing Entity agree to be bound by the 
applicable terms and 
conditions of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement, 
including, 
without limitation, Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (Project 
description), and Section 2.01 (provision of funds, standards and practices), 
Section 2.04 (obligations under the General Conditions), Section 2.08 
(reporting) and the Schedule (procurement) to this Agreement.
Page  3
(ii)
Terms applicable to the JID Agreement.
 
(A)
JID shall be maintained with organization, structure and 
functions, 
including competent staff in adequate numbers, 
all acceptable to the 
Bank.
 
(B)
JID shall carry out Part B of the Project with the 
assistance of 
consultants hired under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
including, without 
limitation, the following:
(1)
JID shall, by the Effective Date, enter into a 
consultants' 
contract in order to carry out Parts B.2 
and B.3 of the Project; 
and
 
(2)
JID shall, by December 31, 1990, enter into a 
consultants' 
contract in order to carry out Part B.4 
of the Project, and a 
consultants' contract in order to 
carry out Part B.5 of the 
Project.
 
(C)
JID shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project in accordance 
with the 
provisions of the Settlement Procedures.
 
(b)
Without limitation to, or restriction upon, the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section, CODEVASF, by December 31, 1990, shall enter into a Coordinating 
Agreement with SUCAM for purposes of carrying out Part D.4 of the Project.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CODEVASF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, 
waiving or failing to enforce any Coordinating Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) CODEVASF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary  Agreement, and the Coordinating 
Agreements, the performance of the Executing  Entities under the Coordinating 
Agreements, and other matters relating to the  purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CODEVASF shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CODEVASF of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the  Subsidiary Agreement and the Coordinating 
Agreements, or the performance of the Executing Entities under the Coordinating 
Agreements.
Section 2.08. Without limitation to its other reporting obligations  under the 
General Conditions and this Agreement, CODEVASF shall submit reports, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request,  of the progress of carrying 
out the Project, to the Bank: (i) no later than three months after the close of each 
quarter during the fiscal year; and (ii) on an annual basis, summarizing such progress 
and providing an implementation schedule, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the 
activities and a timetable for the implementation of such activities to be carried out 
under the Project  for the next coming fiscal year.
Section 2.09. CODEVASF shall take all measures necessary or appropriate to 
ensure that charges for water supplied under the Project shall be in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. CODEVASF shall: (i) approve the selection of Project Beneficiaries 
in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower; and (ii) take all 
measures necessary or appropriate to ensure that the settlement of Project 
Beneficiaries under Part B (2) of the Project is in  accordance with the Settlement 
Procedures.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CODEVASF
Page  4
Section 3.01. CODEVASF shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, agricultural,  irrigation and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and  experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CODEVASF shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as  needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance  with sound 
financial, agricultural, irrigation and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. CODEVASF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CODEVASF shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices its 
operations and financial condition, including separate records  and accounts 
reflecting the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
CODEVASF shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, 
and its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, CODEVASF shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, receipts 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Page  5
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CODEVASF 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CODEVASF thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or  at 
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the  party giving 
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Telefacsimile:
202-477-6391
For CODEVASF:
Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale
   do Sao Francisco
Edificio Sede da CODEVASF
SGAN Q 601 Conj. I
70830 Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
CODEVASF
391-0612256 CVSF-BR
Brasilia
391-0611057 CVSF-BR
Brazil
Telefacsimile:
061-226-2468
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CODEVASF, may 
be taken or executed by its President or such other person  or persons as the 
President shall designate in writing, and CODEVASF shall  furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
Page  6
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean
COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO VALE
   DO SAO FRANCISCO
By /s/ Eliseu Alves
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, works and goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable: (a) contracts for on-farm equipment shall be grouped 
into three separate bid packages for: (i) pumping equipment; (ii) sprinkler irrigation 
equipment (sprinklers and laterals); and (iii) pipes and fittings; and (b) contracts 
for operation and maintenance equipment shall be  grouped into bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more.
3.
Bidders for civil works under Part A.1 (b) of the Project shall be  prequalified 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following  methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
Page  7
following two groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank 
that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at 
least 50% of the value 
of the completed goods.
 
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a 
bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the  evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid, or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount  of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as  determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $3,000,000, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $7,200,000, and goods and equipment 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $400,000, up to an  aggregate amount not 
to exceed the equivalent of $6,400,000, may be procured  under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items of office furniture and extension equipment estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $40,000 per contract, up to an  aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured  on the basis of 
evaluation of price quotations from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.3 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, each contract for goods and equipment estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, and the first two  contracts for works and 
the first two contracts for goods under Part C.1 of  this Schedule, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments  
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank  pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of the said Appendix shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
Page  8
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that  the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 3 of the said Appendix 
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditures. Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist CODEVASF in carrying out the Project, CODEVASF shall employ, 
or cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III.
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes FSRMM. 
