Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3013 BR
(Jaiba Irrigation Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 31, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3013 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1989, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having  satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO  VALE 
DO SAO FRANCISCO (CODEVASF) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part  of such 
assistance, the Borrower shall, as provided in this Agreement, make the proceeds of 
the loan available to CODEVASF pursuant to an agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to 
be entered into with CODEVASF;
(C)
by an agreement (the Project Agreement) of even date herewith, between 
Page  2
the Bank and CODEVASF, the latter has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
the Project Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, (General Conditions) with the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth:
(a)
"Treasury" means the National Treasury, Secretaria do Tesouro  Nacional, 
of the Ministry of Finance, Ministerio da Fazenda, of the Borrower;
(b)
"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Brazil, Banco Central do  
Brasil, established by Lei No. 4,595, dated December 31, 1964;
(c)
"Minas Gerais" means the State of Minas Gerais in the territory of the 
Borrower;
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(e)
"CODEVASF" means the Sao Francisco River Valley Development  Company, 
Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco, established by Lei No. 6088 (as 
hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Lei No. 6088" means Lei No. 6088, of July 16, 1974 of the Borrower,  
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette of July 17, 1979, establishing CODEVASF;
(g)
"JID" means the Jaiba Irrigation District, Distrito de Irrigacao de 
Jaiba, a private association of Project Beneficiaries (as hereinafter defined) 
established to carry out irrigation activities in the Jaiba area of Minas Gerais, and 
registered in the Cartorio de Registro Civil de Pessoas Juridicas, in Manga, Minas 
Gerais;
(h)
"CEMIG" means the Minas Gerais Electric Company, Companhia Energetica de 
Minas Gerais, established by Lei No. 828 of December 14, 1951 of Minas Gerais;
(i)
"CETEC" means the Technological Center of Minas Gerais, Fundacao  Centro 
Tecnologico de Minas Gerais, established by Decreto No. 18407 of March 4, 1977 of 
Minas Gerais;
(j)
"EMBRAPA" means the Agricultural Research Agency of the Borrower, Empresa 
Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria, established by Lei No. 5,851 of December 7, 1972 
of the Borrower;
(k)
"EPAMIG" means the Agricultural Research Agency of Minas Gerais,  Empresa 
de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de Minas Gerais, established by Lei No. 6310 of May 8, 1974 
of Minas Gerais;
(l)
"RURALMINAS" means the Foundation for Settlement and Rural Development of 
Minas Gerais, Fundacao Rural Mineira de Colonizacao e Desenvolvimento Agrario, 
established by Lei No. 4278 of November 21, 1966 of Minas Gerais;
(m)
"SUCAM" means the Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns, 
Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica of the Borrower, established by Decreto 
Page  3
No. 66,623 of May 22, 1970 of the Borrower;
(n)
"Executing Entities" means collectively, any of the entities defined in 
paragraphs (g) through (m) of this Section, and such other entities as  shall be 
acceptable to the Bank for purposes of carrying out a Part or Parts  of the Project; 
"Executing Entity" means any one of such Executing Entities;
(o)
"Ministry of Agriculture" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the 
Borrower;
(p)
"Decree No. 92.395" means Decreto No. 92.395 of February 12, 1986 of  the 
Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement under which the  Programa Nacional 
de Irrigacao (the National Irrigation Program) was established;
(q)
"Law No. 7.739" means Lei No. 7.739 of the Borrower, inter alia, 
transferring the Programa Nacional de Irrigacao (the National Irrigation Program), 
which was established under Decree No. 92.395, to the Ministry of Agriculture;
(r)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CODEVASF of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(s)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through the Ministry of Agriculture, and CODEVASF pursuant to Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements  supplemental to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(t)
"General Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the Borrower 
through the Ministry of Irrigation, Minas Gerais, RURALMINAS and  CODEVASF dated 
February 1, 1988, setting forth such parties' commitment to,  and obligations in 
respect of, the implementation of the Project;
(u)
"MIRAD Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the  Borrower, 
through its Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Agricultural  Development, Ministerio da 
Reforma e do Desenvolvimento Agrario ("MIRAD"),   and Minas Gerais, dated January 28, 
1988, setting forth the Borrower's obligations to make land available for the Project;
(v)
"Coordinating Agreement" means an agreement entered into or to be entered 
into between CODEVASF and an Executing Entity for purposes of carrying out a Part or 
Parts of the Project, pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of the  Project Agreement; 
"Coordinating Agreements" means, collectively, all such Coordinating Agreements;
(w)
"JID Agreement" means the Coordinating Agreement, dated August 30,  1988 
between CODEVASF and JID and referred to in Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(x)
"Project Area" means irrigable land in an area of approximately 28,000 
hectares in the Municipality of Manga of Minas Gerais;
(y)
"Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit to be maintained within 
CODEVASF pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement for purposes of 
coordinating the carrying out of the Project;
(z)
"Settlement Procedures" means the procedures set forth in Lei No. 6662 of 
June 25, 1979 of the Borrower as published in the Borrower's Official Gazette of  June 
26, 1979, for allocating farm lands to Project Beneficiaries  (as hereinafter 
defined), reviewing farming performance during a probationary  period, preparation and 
delivery of land title, and setting of terms of payment by Project Beneficiaries for 
farm land allocated under the Project;
(aa)
"Project Beneficiary" means a farmer, a group of farmers, or farming 
organization, each with juridical capacity to contract under the laws of the Borrower, 
selected to irrigate farm land in the Project Area, including  without limitation 
Small Farmers, Small Entrepreneurs, Medium Entrepreneurs, AGRIVALE and AGROCERES (all 
as hereinafter defined);
(bb)
"Small Farmer" means a Project Beneficiary who has been allocated land of 
approximately five hectares in the Project Area;
Page  4
(cc)
"Small Entrepreneur" means a Project Beneficiary who has been  allocated 
land of approximately twenty hectares in the Project area;
(dd)
"Medium Entrepreneur" means a Project Beneficiary who has been allocated 
land of approximately fifty hectares in the Project area;
(ee)
"AGRIVALE" means a privately-held company which is farming land, the 
AGRIVALE farm, in the Project Area;
(ff)
"AGROCERES" means a privately held company which is farming land, the 
AGROCERES farm, in the Project Area;
(gg)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para Renovacao da Marinha Mercante -  
AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant  Marine, 
established by Decree Law No. 1.142 of December 31, 1987 or any other tax, levy or 
charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may  substitute for it, in whole 
or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(hh)
"Implementation Schedule" means the implementation schedule provided to 
the Bank each year pursuant to Section 2.08 (ii) of the Project Agreement;
(ii)
"cruzado novo" means the currency of the Borrower; and
 
(jj)
"fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, CODEVASF or JID, 
when appropriate.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to seventy-one million dollars ($71,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank, on terms  and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of  the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum  for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Page  5
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Agriculture and any person or persons duly  
authorized in writing by the Minister for such purpose are designated as  
representatives of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end,  without any 
limitation to, or restriction upon, any of its other obligations  under the Loan 
Agreement, shall, through the Subsidiary Agreement, cause CODEVASF to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of CODEVASF therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,  services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CODEVASF to  perform such obligations, 
and shall not take nor permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to CODEVASF 
under the Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through the 
Ministry of Agriculture, and CODEVASF under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Treasury and the Bank. The  Borrower shall exercise its rights under 
the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to 
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
beginning not later than one month after the Effective Date, cause the 
Treasury to make available to CODEVASF, through the Ministry of  Agriculture, all 
funds for expenditures to be financed by the Borrower or  from the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with, and within the time period  set forth in, the relevant 
Implementation Schedule provided, however, that such funds shall be made available 
prior to the fifteenth day after the beginning of each such time period; and
(b)
through the Ministry of Agriculture, review with the Bank by June 30  of 
each year the proposed allocations for the Project for the ensuing year from its 
budget.
Section 3.03. Procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan  shall be governed 
by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General  Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition)  in respect of the Project, 
Page  6
shall be carried out by CODEVASF pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the General  Agreement, or the MIRAD 
Agreement, or any provision of such Agreements.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(i)
cause charges to Project Beneficiaries for water supplied under 
the Project to 
be set at levels sufficient to recover: (A) at least 
the costs of investment 
in irrigation works financed in whole or in 
part from the proceeds of the 
Loan; and (B) the operation and 
maintenance costs of such works;
(ii)
cause such charges to each Project Beneficiary to be initially 
made on a 
progressively increasing basis for four years, 
beginning the first year of 
cultivation by each Project 
Beneficiary; and
(iii)
adjust such charges to achieve such cost recovery on at least an 
annual basis 
and in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the 
Bank and ensure that 
the Bank has an opportunity to review any 
proposed water charges prior to 
making any adjustment thereto.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
separate records for the Special Account adequate to reflect, in accordance  with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have such separate records and the Special Account for each fiscal 
year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested;
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and the 
Special Account and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CODEVASF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the  Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CODEVASF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Lei No. 6662 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed  or 
Page  7
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CODEVASF to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CODEVASF, or for the suspension 
of its operations.
(e)
The Borrower, CODEVASF or any other authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of JID, or for the 
suspension of its operations.
(f)
A change shall have been made in any of the Coordinating Agreements or 
there shall have been a failure to enforce any of the Coordinating Agreements without 
the prior consent of the Bank.
(g)
A change shall have been made in Law 7.739 which shall materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out,  or 
supervise the carrying out, of the Project.
(h)
Decree No. 92.395 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (f), (g) and (h) of  Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of  60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and 
CODEVASF;
(c)
JID has complied with the obligations set forth in Section 2.06 
(a)(ii)(B)(1) of the Project Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has provided to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, 
that it has made available to CODEVASF in 1989 the equivalent of at least three 
million dollars ($3,000,000) for expenditures required for the Project in 1989;
(e)
the Borrower has provided to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the  
Bank, that the General Agreement has been amended to substitute the Ministry of 
Agriculture for the Ministry of Irrigation as a party to such Agreement, and that the 
Ministry of Agriculture has assumed all of the Ministry of Irrigation's rights duties 
and obligations under the General Agreement; and
(f)
the Borrower has provided to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the  
Bank, that the MIRAD Agreement has been amended to substitute the Ministry of 
Agriculture for the Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Agricultural Development as a 
party to such Agreement, and that the Ministry of Agriculture has assumed all of the 
Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Agricultural Development's rights duties and 
obligations under the MIRAD Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
Page  8
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, CODEVASF, and is legally binding upon CODEVASF in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and CODEVASF, and  is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and CODEVASF in accordance with its terms;
(d)
that the JID Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of CODEVASF and JID, and is legally binding  upon 
CODEVASF and JID in accordance with its terms;
(e)
that the General Agreement has been amended as set forth in paragraph (e) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and that, as amended, it constitutes a valid and 
binding obligation on the parties thereto in accordance with its terms; and
(f)
that the MIRAD Agreement has been amended as set forth in paragraph (f) 
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and that, as amended, it constitutes a  valid and 
binding obligation on the parties thereto in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date August 29, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P"
70048 Brasilia, D.F. Brasil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brasil
Telefacsimile:
612231909
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
Page  9
Telefacsimile:
202-477-6391
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Cid Heraclito de Queiroz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean
Witnessed by:
/s/ H. E. Dr. Iris de Rezende Machado
    Minister of Agriculture
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                24,000,000      45%
(2)  Goods and                  15,000,000      100% of Foreign
     equipment                                  Expenditures and
                                                45% of Local
                                                Expenditures
(3)  Consultants'               21,000,000      100% of Foreign
     and other                                  Expenditures and
     services                                   45% of Local
                                                Expenditures
(4)  Recurrent                   4,000,000      45% until such
     Costs of JID                               time as the
                                                equivalent of
                                                $3,000,000
                                                has been dis-
                                                bursed from
                                                the Loan Account
Page  10
                                                under this
                                                Category; 30%
                                                thereafter
(5)  Unallocated                 7,000,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 71,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Foreign Expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "Local Expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Recurrent Costs" means any expenditures made by JID during a 
fiscal year for salaries of staff and operating and maintenance costs of equipment 
used by JID.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(i)
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be 
made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after February 1, 1988;
(ii)
by an Executing Entity unless the Bank shall have received a copy 
of the 
Coordinating Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
entered into between 
CODEVASF and such Executing Entity; and
 
(iii)
for goods the importation of which has been prohibited by the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop and improve irrigation in the 
Project area; (b) to increase agricultural production and rural employment 
opportunities in Minas Gerais; and (c) to facilitate the future expansion of the 
irrigation subsector through the institutional development of JID.
The Project is to be carried out in the Project Area and consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank 
may agree from time to time to achieve the above-mentioned objectives:
Part A:
Construction of Jaiba Sprinkler Irrigation System and Land Preparation
 
1.
Irrigation Works.
 
(a)
Completion of and repairs on, and operation and maintenance of, the 
existing main canal and the two main pumping stations for such canal.
(b)
Construction of a distribution network of open canals and related 
structures.
(c)
Rehabilitation of the Mocambinho surface irrigation system and conversion 
to a sprinkler irrigation system.
(d)
Construction of on-farm sprinkler irrigation systems, and acquisition and 
installation of irrigation equipment.
Page  11
2.
Electrification.
 
Improving the electrical network, including construction of transmission lines, 
power sub-stations, and a distribution system comprised of electric lines and 
transformers on posts.
3.
Access roads. Construction of a network of roads to provide access to farms and 
to service the irrigation system.
4.
Project Supervision. Carrying out of supervision of construction and other works 
under the Project.
Part B:
Initial Operation of the Jaiba Irrigation District
 
1.
Institutional Development.
 
(a)
Construction of administrative facilities, including offices, garages, 
workshops and about forty staff houses.
(b)
Initial staffing of JID.
 
2.
Farmer Settlement.
 
Selection of Project Beneficiaries, allocation of farms, supervision, 
preparation and delivery of land titles to Project Beneficiaries.
3.
Extension, Training and Social Services.
 
(a)
Provision of agricultural training and advisory services to Project  
Beneficiaries, including the use of demonstration plots.
(b)
Acquisition and utilization of tractors.
 
(c)
Construction of about six  schools, six health posts and six community 
centers.
4.
Marketing Services.
 
Provision of marketing and export assistance to Project Beneficiaries.
5.
Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Works.
 
Operation and maintenance of irrigation works other than the main canal  and 
main pumping stations, including delivering of water to, and measuring   of water 
consumption by Project Beneficiaries.
Part C:
Applied Agricultural Research
 
1.
Research regarding soil and climatological conditions, irrigation equipment and 
systems, fertilizer management in sandy soils, including the use of water management 
observation plots and experimental plots.
2.
Construction of administration buildings and housing.
 
3.
Acquisition and utilization of research equipment.
 
Part D:
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
 
1.
Technical assistance for the development of JID, CODEVASF, RURALMINAS and other 
Executing Entities.
2.
Training in management, rural development, irrigation, construction and other 
skills of higher-level staff of CODEVASF, and higher- and mid-level staff of JID and 
RURALMINAS.
3.
Studies to facilitate Project execution, including preparation of construction 
plans for the Project, marketing of agricultural products under the Project, 
Page  12
protection and monitoring of the environment, and preparation of a second-phase 
Project.
4.
Carrying out of a campaign against water-borne diseases.
 
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1994
through   October 15, 2003
$3,550,000
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified  for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
.20
before maturity
More than three years but
.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to three 
Page  13
million dollars ($3,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do  not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of a request or requests, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special               
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the  Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to  the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made  exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into  by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the  General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of  twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from  the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall  specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only  after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out  of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not  eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or  the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall  otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or
Page  14
refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of  this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
