Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24325
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39310; SCL-3931A; SCPD-393IS; PPFB-P2270; PPFB-P2271)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$101.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
FOR A
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
06/30/2002
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
AR$3.7 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = AR$3.7
FISCAL YEAR
January I through December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS:          Country Assistance Strategy
GoA:          Government of Argentina
HPAs:         Hospital Piublico Autogestionados (Autonomous Public Hospitals)
IBRD:         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR:          Implementation Completion Report
MIS:          Management Infornation System
MoE:          Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Puiblicos
(Ministry of Economy and Public Works)
MoH:         Ministry of Health
MSP:          Ministerio de Salud Provincial (Provincial Ministry of Health and MCBA)
O&M:          Organizational and Management
OSs:          Obras Sociales (Health Insurance Fund)
PBA:          Province of Buenos Aires
PCU:          Project Coordination Unit
PRESSAL:      Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud (Provincial Health Sector Development Project)
PRESSS:       Programa de Reconversi6n del Sistema de Seguro Social
(Restructuring Program of Health Insurance System)
UEC:          Unidad Ejecutiva Central del Proyecto de Desarrollo del Sector Salud en las Provincias
UEP:          Unidad Ejecutora Provincial
UNDP:         United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Myma Alexander
Sector Director:  Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader:    Ruth Levine



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                   11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 14
10. Additional Information                                                          14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               25






Project ID: P006030                                     Project Name: AR-Prov. Health Sector Development
Team Leader: Maria Lucy Giraldo                         TL Unit: LCSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 25, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: AR-Prov. Health Sector Development           L/C/TF Number: CPL-39310;
SCL-393 1A;
SCPD-393 iS;
PPFB-P2270;
PPFB-P2271
Countrv/Department: ARGENTINA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: HR - Reform and Financing
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/24/1993                            Effective: 03/01/1996        03/01/1996
Appraisal:  03/14/1995                              MTR: 12/02/1998           12/02/1998
Approval: 08/03/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA/MIN OF HEALTH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myrna L. Alexander                       Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Evangeline Xavier                        Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:  Maria L. Giraldo                         Marie Odile H. Waty
ICR Primary Author.  Luis Perez; Ruth E. Levine; Sati
Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the US$144.72 million investment project was to support the Government of Argentina's
goal of rationalizing health sector spending. To achieve this goal, the project took a two-pronged approach:
(i) strengthening the policy-making capacity of the central Ministry of Health (MOH) and the provincial
health ministries, and assisting the Government in the implementation of specific changes in the incentives
faced by public hospitals; and (ii) improving the capacity to deliver services by pilot testing the
implementation of autonomous public hospitals (Hospitales Publicos Autogestionados, or HPAs) through
altemative managerial models.
The objectives were consistent with the Government's sector policy in several ways. First, the Government
had taken steps to reform the health insurance system.  Second, the operational and financial
decentralization of services to provinces and municipalities was well underway, and the legal and financial
bases were set for the establishment of autonomous public hospitals. Third, new regulations had opened the
way for competition in the pharmaceutical market. Fourth, the Government, with support from the Bank,
was committed to improvement of govemment-provided matemal and child health services. Fifth, reform of
public hospitals and rationalization of health services in urban areas were considered priorities.
The project objectives complemented the objectives of other Bank-financed projects, were supported by
sector work, and were fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
emphasized the Government's ambitious reform program. In particular, the objectives were relevant to help
the Government: (a) restore and maintain fiscal balance by improving the efficiency of public expenditures;
and (b) support investments in human resources, especially with improved education, nutrition, and health.
The Bank's heavy involvement in Argentina's health sector through a number of other activities - Maternal
and Child Health and Nutrition Project (6025-AR), Social Protection Project (3957-AR), Health Sector
Financing Study (Argentina: Facing the Challenge of Health Insurance Reform, Report No. 16402-AR),
and Health Sector Insurance Reform Project (4002/3-AR) - placed the Bank in a strong position as a
partner to the Government which it sought to address sector efficiency.
The project envisioned several significant benefits. First, the project was expected to set the stage and
provide the technical tools for an in-depth transformation of the health sector by strengthening
policy-making through the definition of specific short- and medium-term strategies and actions aimed at
furthering sector reform. Second, the project aimed to establish a new and more efficient delivery model,
for future nationwide replication, by strengthening the organization and management of 15 public hospitals
and guiding their transformation into HPAs. The project was also expected to increase cost-recovery, allow
for more flexibility in the utilization of resources by hospital managers, reduce unnecessary utilization of
hospital beds, and increase hospital productivity. The change of managerial model for public hospitals was
expected to lead to progressive public-private integration in the provision of health services.
The project took into account main risk factors to successful project implementation. The first important
risk was the lack of future government support to reform in the health sector. While it was not possible to
guarantee support to the project by all stakeholders, risks related to the sustainability of the project were
minimized by: (a) the attention given during preparation to ensure support of key stakeholders, particularly
of the jurisdictional governments, the Ministry of Economy (MOE), and some professional associations;
and (b) a project design that was not overly ambitious, had a pilot and demonstration features, as well as
specific and operational studies, focused on gradually building the sector's knowledge base for reform.
The second important risk was that project implementation demands would outstrip the managerial
- 2 -



capacity of the MOH, the provincial health ministries and the Municipality of Buenos Aires Health
Secretariat. This risk was expected to be minimized by: (a) full-time project units, National Project
Coordination Unit (Unidad Ejecutiva Central, or UEC) and Provincial Project Coordination Units (
Unidades Ejecutivas Provinciales, or UEPs), which had successfully managed preparation and had
become familiar with Bank guidelines during the administration of an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF); and (b) annual and mid-term reviews to assess implementation progress and adjust its pace
and scope as needed.
The project was technically demanding for the Borrower. Because the concept of autonomous public
hospitals was novel in Latin America, the Government was initially not aware of its full implications. A
wide variety of technical and political challenges and constraints, which were not fully known at the
project's inception, emerged during implementation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Responding to a request from the Government, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement in July 1999 to use
the savings of US$4.2 million to finance technical assistance activities aimed at contributing to the
Government's health insurance reform program; this component was called Programa de Reconversion del
Sistema del Seguro de Salud (PRESSS). Consequently, new development objectives were introduced into
the project, including: (i) improving the institutional capacity of the funds of the health insurance system, to
design restructuring plans for health insurers, known as Obras Sociales; (ii) improving the technical
capacity of the health insurance superintendency (Superintendencia de Seguros de Salud, SSS), and
implementing effective monitoring, control and regulatory tools for OSs to assure the provision of adequate
services to beneficiaries; (iii) improving the institutional capacity of the MOH to improve the quality and
efficiency of the information system; (iv) improving institutional capacity of the Social Development
Secretariat to develop monitoring systems to finance health insurance for retired persons; and (v) designing
on a pilot basis health insurance for the uninsured poor persons in selected provinces.
In December 1999, PRESSS objectives and activities were modified, leaving those referred to as "SSS
Strengthening" and "Strengthening of the MOH and Social Development Secretariat," as well as the tasks
related to strengthening the provincial OSs. The remaining activities included those related to diagnostic
studies and drafting of conversion plans for provincial OSs, and designing (as a pilot) health insurance for
the poor and uninsured in selected provinces (Salta, C6rdoba and Rio Negro). It was expected that the
health insurance pilots would be financed with a new World Bank loan - US$4.9 million from the Bank,
US$ 1.01 million from the federal government, and US$1.16 million from provincial funds, under the
auspices of a "Learning and Innovation Loan" (LIL). After several delays and discussions over a two-year
period about the approach of the project, the LIL was cancelled in June 2002.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components:
Component I. Formulation of Policy for Reform. Under this component, the project financed a limited
number of studies and system designs to improve the incentive environment in which public hospitals
operate. The aim of the studies was to develop action-oriented recommendations and designs in key areas,
which would be implemented during the second half of the project. These areas were identified on the basis
of the Government's priorities for action, their technical relevance to further reform, and their
implementation feasibility.
The studies included: (a) upgrading the national information system on sector resources, epidemiological
information and productivity of service delivery; (b) defining priority health services financed by
- 3 -



government subsidies (burden of disease and priority services packages); (c) formulating a proposal for a
new financing model, which would include: designing a public hospital reimbursement system; drafting a
performance contracting model; creating a strategy to separate the financing from the service delivery
functions of the public sector at the provincial level; and creating a system to identify beneficiaries of the
public insurance; (d) designing a regulatory framework for private health insurance and health care
providers; (e) defining a quality guarantee system; (f) designing a strategy to reform provincial social
insurance programs, in an effort to improve their financial sustainability and managerial efficiency; (g)
reviewing the relevant legislation and institutional framework to improve the regulations on hospital waste
disposal; (h) developing investment and project proposals for HIV/AIDS control; (i) nationwide expansion
of the HPA initiative; and (j) an impact evaluation of the project.
Component II. Pilot Implementation of Autonomous Hospitals. Under this component, the project
sought to establish the basis for a broader reform of public hospitals. To that end, the project was to
support pilot implementation of HPAs in three eligible jurisdictions identified by the Government, namely,
the Province of Mendoza (PM), City of Buenos Aires (CBA), and the Province of Buenos Aires (PBA).
While PM was chosen because of its achievements in health sector reform, CBA and PBA were chosen
because the Government considered these major urban centers critical for health sector reform in Argentina.
The HPA model was based on the separation of health financing and delivery functions of the public sector,
which implied the gradual development of a purchasing agency role for provincial ministries of health, and
the transformation of public hospitals into self-governing trusts. HPA hospitals would be autonomous in
the management of all resources, and would establish contractual arrangements with public and private
purchasing agencies. The project supported the process by introducing the most urgently required
organizational, management, and financial tools into hospitals, and by pilot testing the HPA model during
the second half of project implementation.
The institutional development intervention of hospitals were to be carried out through organization and
management (O&M) consulting firms, which would concentrate their efforts in: general organization and
management; accounting and finance; patient administration; pharmacy materials and supplies; hotel
services; diagnostic procedures; infrastructure and equipment maintenance; control of hospital infections;
medical auditing; and management of medical waste. To facilitate the implementation of institutional
development, the project was also to finance the design of a hospital management information system
(MIS).
To support and complement the institutional development activities, the component financed investment in
hospital physical plant and equipment. These infrastructure improvements were intended to: solve
bottlenecks to increase productivity; reduce the risk for patients and hospital staff; and increase productive
efficiency. Investments were limited to the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and replacement of basic
equipment, and were to be completed in two phases.
Component HI. Dissemination of Reform Initiatives. This component supported national dissemination
of the findings and experiences of the first two components, as well as strengthening of the technical and
management capacity of sector professionals. To this end, the project supported: (a) technical assistance,
training, and workshops aimed at increasing the awareness and knowledge of the activities to reform the
health sector, and disseminating the findings and lessons learned from the other two components to
provinces which did not participate in Component II; and (b) 20 international scholarships in the areas of
hospital management, public health and health economics.
3.4 Revised Components-
Component I. Based on the 1999 amendment mentioned earlier, the following activities were financed
under the project but administered under PRESSS:
-4 -



(a) technical assistance to: (i) provincial OSs to design pilot restructuring plans and strengthen their
information systems; and (ii) national OSs of less than 10,000 beneficiaries, to design pilot plans and
operational mechanisms for their merger or acquisition.
(b) institutional strengthening of the SSS: (i) monitoring and control systems, and (ii) design and
implementation of norms for crisis resolution and prevention of failure of social health insurance funds.
(c) institutional strengthening of the MOH in managing registration and filing systems for health providers
and insurers, and of the Secretariat for Social Development in developing monitoring systems for, the
financing of medical coverage for pensioners without health insurance coverage (non-contributing
pensioners);
(d) design of a pilot health insurance plan for poor, uninsured populations in selected provinces.
Component H. A January 21, 1998, amendment to the Loan Agreement, which was retroactive to March
1996, established that the infrastructure and equipment investments would be completed in a single stage,
rather than the two stages originally planned. This change was made to simplify the approval and
execution of individual projects, thereby accelerating the overall program of works.
Component III. The technical assistance activities for ministries of health, public hospitals and POSs in
non-eligible provinces were not foreseen in the original Loan Agreement; they were incorporated in a
September 15, 1999, amendment. This revision was necessary because of the strong demand for technical
assistance in provinces that were not included in the pilot and because PRESSAL assumed a commitment
to support provinces benefiting from Provincial Reform Loans, Rio Negro (4218-AR), Salta (4219-AR),
Tucuman (4221-AR), San Juan (4220-AR) and Catamarca (4578-AR).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), thus the project's quality
at entry was not formally assessed. For the purposes of this report the quality at entry is judged to be
marginally satisfactory.
As mentioned earlier, project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the Government priorities, and
the operation constituted a fundamental part of the reform of public hospitals and health sector in
Argentina. Project components were reasonably well related to achieving the project objectives. Sufficient
attention was given to strengthening hospital administration and management, as well as to investment in
infrastructure and hospital equipment; these could reasonably be expected to lead to improvement in
hospital productivity and capacity.
However, several design flaws ultimately contributed to the project's overall poor performance. First, with
respect to hospital autonomy, the project failed to take into account several external factors that are
essential for strengthening autonomy. For example, no investment was made to strengthen provincial
ministries, including their administrative capacity, training, information systems, performance evaluation,
and capacity to monitor cost and quality indicators.
Second, for several of the risks identified during project preparation, the remedial measures built into the
design proved to be insufficient. For example, the risk of possible lack of future govermment support at the
national and provincial levels was taken into account. However, in the course of the implementation, this
risk became a reality and hindered the project's achievements. Letters of intent, which were signed by
- 5-



provincial executive bodies, proved difficult to translate into legislative agreements, which required
consensus. In the case of CBA, for example, the legislative consensus took a long time, and the political
accord was disrupted with a change in administration. As a result, the concept of self-management of
hospitals was very slow to take hold.
Similarly, the risk that project implementation demands would outstrip the managerial capacity of the
MOH, the provincial health ministries and the Buenos Aires Health Secretariat was considered, and
preventive measures were adopted into the design. This risk also became a reality when the administrative
weakness of these agencies hampered smooth project implementation.
Several other flaws in project design were also manifested during implementation: (i) the design did not
sufficiently take into account issues of govemance and institutional capacity, including corruption, which
significantly hampered implementation; (ii) combining civil works and equipment investments with the
planned policy, organizational and management reforms did not lead to positive results, in part because the
design assumed that the institutional reform and hospital rehabilitation could proceed in a coordinated
fashion; this did not happen; (iii) the design did not include actions to disseminate the reform to other
sectors of the provincial governments, restricting them to health sector authorities, although many of the
measures required for successful implementation (e.g., human resources, budget decentralization, and
others) concemed other parts of the govemment.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of the project is judged to be unsatisfactory. The desired-for results - stronger
policy-making and regulation, autonomous hospitals, and a generalization of the hospital pilot experiences
- did not result from project interventions and investments.
Component I. Strengthening of the Policy-making and Regulatory Capacity of the Central Ministry
of Health (MOH) and the Provincial Health Ministries. Significant strengthening of policy-making
capacity in the national and provincial MOH was achieved, fostering reforms and new programs in the
health sector. Studies carried out supported the definition of a mandatory health benefits package (PMO),
and the design and development of the quality guarantee national program, which furthered the policy
dialogue regarding financing and insurance reforms. It also initiated national programs in epidemiological
surveillance, which eventually led to the identification of the Public Health Surveillance and Disease
Control Project (VIGI-A), Loan 4516-AR and HIV/AIDS prevention, which led to the identification of the
AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Disease Control Project (LUSIDA), Loan 4168-AR.
Component II. Pilot Implementation of Autonomous Hospitals. The project did not succeed in
transforming even a single hospital into an autonomous entity with full juridical personality; thus, a major
objective of the project was not attained. Strong opposition and resistance by many stakeholders -
including ministers, trade unions and even some provincial hospitals - greatly hindered achievement of
full-fledged autonomy. With the change of government administration in November 1999, the idea of
autonomy itself was discredited because it was considered "anti-poor"; leaders in the health sector thought
that autonomy would promote discriminatory behaviors against uninsured patients.
Specific improvements were achieved in some of the pilot hospitals in terms of quality of service and
efficiency. Some of these hospitals showed increased client orientation, increased productivity, efficient use
of resources and effectiveness. With the same number of staff and smaller number of beds, these hospitals
increased their admissions, ambulatory and emergency room consultations, laboratory tests and imagery
- 6 -



examinations. Increased productivity was also accompanied by improved lengths of stay and higher
occupancy rates. However, overall only about 40 percent of the performance indicators in the participating
hospitals improved.
All pilot hospitals that conducted organizational development exercises subsequently included new
processes for hazardous waste separation, collection, disposal and treatment. Strangely, in some hospitals,
civil works completed along with the managerial training and technical assistance appear to have had a
negative impact: some quality and efficiency indicators worsened.
Component M. Dissemination of Reform Initiatives. The project played an important role in the reform
of the health sector at the provincial level. It assisted provinces not originally included in the project to
design their reform of the health sector - one of the key elements supported by the Bank through the PRLs.
The UEC successfully carried out a plan for disseminating and transferring technology and know-how
(instruments and knowledge) to all provinces. This was done through short-term technical assistance to
provincial ministries of health, public hospitals and provincial OS.
Component IV. PRESSS. This component played an important role in disseminating the concept of public
health insurance. Under the project, seminars and workshops were conducted to interest provincial leaders
in the design and implementation of insurance programs, and the provinces of Santa Fe, Rio Negro and
Chubut were supported in their efforts to work on this issue.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component I. Policy Reform Studies. Moderately satisfactory.
The contribution of this component to the policy-making capacity of the MOH and the provincial
Ministries of Health has been partially positive. Main expected outputs and end-of-project status are
described below:
(a) The inventory of sector resources and services was partially developed, although never completed and
not structured for permanent updating. It succeeded in providing new information on human resources,
physical resources and production in the public and private sectors.
(b) The definition of health priorities/burden of disease study was not conducted.
(c) Work on health sector financing included: definition of a system for the payment of integrated services
packages to hospitals; study of the separation of health financing and delivery functions; creation of a
management contracts model for PM and PBA, and support for experiences in La Pampa, Salta, Rio Negro
and Tucuman provinces; study of beneficiary identification, which was the basis for the creation of a
national OSs beneficiaries padr6n, coordinated among national agencies (SSS, ANSES and DGI). (The
development of the PMO and the national OSs beneficiary padr6n were transferred to PROS (4004-AR).)
(d) Design of a system to assure service quality both on the public and private sector was developed.
Technical assistance was provided for the development of the Medical Attention Quality Guarantee
National Program.
Component II. Pilot Implementation of Autonomous Hospitals. Unsatisfactory.
This component had several problems. First, execution of the component started at a different time in each
one of the pilot provinces because the legislative bodies in PBA and CBA experienced delays in approval of
- 7-



the subsidiary agreements for loans. The national government decided to maintain those jurisdictions rather
than relocating the resources to interested provinces, which led to a major change in project design: to
execute in a shorter period of time, the sequencing of activities - first institutional strengthening within the
hospitals, and then investment in infrastructure and equipment - was altered.
Second, commitment of the relevant authorities varied greatly across the 15 eligible hospitals with respect
to the organizational and managerial improvements. In general, changes related to hospital management
were accepted faster than those requiring policy changes from the jurisdictions. However, the commitment
of the provincial MOH for implementation of some of the management tools was weak. As described later,
the hospital information system was not developed, hindering the implementation of some key management
tools, such as the record of production and costs.
Third, only a small to moderate number of improvements were seen in the outcomes related to autonomous
hospitals in the six major areas (organizational, financing, planning and budgeting, human resources,
quality of services and knowledge transfer). According to a major end-of-project impact evaluation,
indicators in CBA, PBA, PM improved by 14, 20 and 43 percent, respectively (PRESSAL Assessment
Report, Clapp & Mayne, 2001). In general, training activities showed the greatest improvement (75, 80
and 83, respectively), which suggests that in the future improvements also will be seen in the other
managerial areas.
Fourth, activities under this component resulted in improvements in the physical plant for several hospitals
(12 out of the original 15 expected - five in PBA, four in CBA and in PM), but results did not match the
level of investment. Although facilities were improved, most did not fulfill expectations, particularly with
respect to the quality of the finished work and the execution period. Virtually all the works started later
than they were supposed to - between two and three years from the start, and two years before the closure.
(The first started in September 1997, four started in 1998, three in 1999, and four in 2000.) Delays also
occurred in the execution of works because of changes introduced during the work process, undefined terms
in bidding documents and/or requests from hospital authorities. Contractors' financial problems worsened
the already bad situation.
Fifth, delays in the signing of subsidiary agreements with the provinces and delays in infrastructure
activities caused delays in bidding processes, reception and delivery of medical equipment to respective
hospitals. The procurement process started in late 1997 for PM, while the rest of the provinces started this
process during 1998, with the first delivery in early 1999. Despite this problem, provision of equipment
achieved reasonably good results.
Component II. Dissemination of Reform Initiatives. Satisfactory.
The major achievement of this component was to sensitize decision makers to the reform, and to increase
awareness of the advances in the jurisdictions. The project provided technical assistance, training, national
and international seminars, and workshops aimed at increasing the awareness and knowledge of the
reform-related activities. In addition, some of the technical tools developed under Components II and III
were disseminated to 14 provinces.
The graduate study grant program was carried out satisfactorily (22 scholarship holders went to
international institutions, and 63 went to national institutions). However, no information is available about
the positions currently held by the recipients. Hospital administrators from provinces (152 participants)
were given training in both national and international universities in the areas of hospital management,
public health and health economics.
-8 -



Technical assistance activities conducted under this component were related to: institutional strengthening
of hospitals; support to the opening and moving of new hospitals; restructuring ,projects for health
ministries/secretariats; health sector legal reform; support for implementation of management contracts;
improvement of the skills of human resources staff; support for development of the provincial health
insurance system, and separation of health financing and delivery functions; direct support for complying
with the conditions of the PRLs.
Component IV. PRESSS
Activities under PRESSS were conducted in a satisfactory manner, and included:
(a) A diagnosis report on the overall situation of provincial OSs, including Obras Sociales in the provinces
of Catamarca, Chaco, Chubut, C6rdoba, Corrientes, Entre Rios, Formosa, Jujuy, Mendoza, Misiones,
Neuquen, Rio Negro and San Juan, and conversion plans for OSs in the provinces of Rio Negro and
Misiones.
(b) Preparation of a framework for public health insurances for the poor, uninsured in Santa Fe, Chubut
and Rio Negro. This included drafting the conceptual developments needed for the pilot implementation
that were to be financed under the LIL.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not able to estimate with the available data.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was modest. Reasons for limited impact included: (i)
problems with the implementation agency (lack of continuity in management and professional staff), which
resulted in an inadequate transfer of knowledge to fornal ministerial structures; (ii) a low capacity in pilot
provinces to effectively use human and financial resources; and (iii) relatively little involvement in
implementation from the national ministry, except when difficult problems arose.
The major positive impact was achieved in many of the jurisdictions that were beneficiaries of technical
assistance under Component III. The project led to greater interaction among the technical staff from the
provincial Ministries.
As mentioned earlier, the overall improvement in the performance indicators of participating hospitals was
not as positive as expected. In many hospitals, the combination of delays in civil works and difficulties in
procurement reduced the expected benefits from the installation of new equipment.
Under PRESSS, the impact of the work on public insurance for the poor and uninsured was minimal
because the pilot projects had a small number of beneficiaries. In the province of Santa Fe the impact may
have been more significant because the strategy was a condition of the PRL.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The economic recession experienced by Argentina from 1998 until project closure had a significant
-9-



negative impact on construction firms, which in turn affected project implementation. Financial problems
faced by some of the construction firms resulted in delays and the need to renegotiate contracts; some
contracts were closed, and new bidding processes had to be started (e.g., hospitals in San Roque (PBA) and
Durand (CBA).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Two major factors within government control affected implementation of the project. First, the lag time in
finalizing the Loan Subsidiary Agreement of PBA (January 1998) and CBA (November 1997) delayed
initiation of the project.  Second, fluctuations in government policy regarding autonomy and the
government's weak capacity to advance the policy agenda affected project implementation. While the
earlier administration was committed to public hospital autonomy, the new administration (December 1999
to December 2001) was very much opposed to granting autonomy to public hospitals, believing that
strategy to be regressive and "anti-poor."
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Multiple factors that were under the control of the implementation agency greatly hampered the effective
and timely execution of the project. These included:
(i). Procurement problems. The project experienced a large number of procurement and contracting
problems resulting in frequent changes in project management, delay in disbursement, and a negative
reputation for the project within Argentina.
In PM, major problems were observed in procurement in the construction of hospitals and supply of oxygen
plants; in the CBA, procurement issues arose in the construction of Hospital Fernandez and Durand; and in
the PBA, procurement of medical equipment was troublesome.
Out of seven allegations investigated by the World Bank's Anti-Corruption Unit, mis-procurement was
declared in two cases. On the Borrower's side, the federal anti-corruption office referred two cases to the
judicial court for criminal investigation (bribe solicitation and manipulation of bids).
(ii). Architectural problems. In some hospitals - and particularly in CBA - flawed architectural designs
led to incomplete or inaccurate blueprints and technical specifications at a late stage in the bidding process.
For instance, in the case of Hospital Fernandez, an audit of both the original technical specifications and
the blueprints, and a contract performance audit on the actual construction showed that there were a large
number of significant omissions and miscalculations in the technical specifications (e.g., elevators that
could not accommodate beds to transport patients, lack of fire alarms, lack of clinical gas installations,
etc.). In the contract itself, an amount of nearly US$900,000 worth of additional payments had been
approved to remedy these shortcomings. Additional work resulting from such changes led to increased
expenditure and delays in implementation.
(iii). Operational problems. The PRESSAL project lacked coordination among its components, which
operated in isolation, missing opportunities for the synergy anticipated in the original design.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was US$124.72 million, compared with the SAR estimate of US$144.7
million. Actual expenditure was lower than expected because: (i) the number of studies was reduced; (ii)
some of the activities under institutional strengthening were not completed; and (iii) US$4.2 million was
released to PRESSS for the creation of health insurance schemes for the uninsured persons and also for the
reform of provincial OSs. The Bank financed US$84.84 million (68.0 percent), and the Goverrnent
- 10 -



contributed US$39.88 million equivalent in local costs (32.0 percent).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabdlity rating:
Unlikely. Despite some important accomplishments in advancing policy reforms, much of the project's
work is unlikely to be sustained. As mentioned earlier, the project did not succeed in achieving autonomy
for participating provincial hospitals, and thus it did not attain the project's major objective.
This situation will persist as long as the incentive structure does not change. For instance, if the
management of a provincial hospital does not have sufficient autonomy and flexibility on key matters -
control of the goveming board; stability in management team; authority to control revenues, define strategic
planning, and service portfolio; and control on staffing to achieve its performance targets - the concept of
autonomous public hospitals will never materialize.
At the close of the project, construction and equipping of three hospitals remained incomplete. Unless the
governments in CBA and PM finance their completion - which is unlikely in an era of severe fiscal
restrictions - they will remain unfinished. In general, sustainabiity of this component will largely depend
on the government's support and commitment. In addition, it does not appear that the MOH or the
provincial health ministries have significantly strengthened their structure and capacity in a sustainable
way.
Despite the generally gloomy picture, some of the improvements made by some hospitals in performance
indicators are likely to be sustainable. With the support of the project, for example, PM was using
performance agreements in its six major hospitals (five of which were included in PRESSAL) and
expanded this reformn to all its public hospitals by 2002. PBA is using these agreements in 12 hospitals
(two of them associated with PRESSAL) after a highly successful initial experience on 2000; the inclusion
of all other PRESSAL hospitals will follow the completion of on-going civil works. CBA, although less
advanced when compared to the other two regions, has approved a new law that mandates further
decentralization of hospital management.
The benefits of some of the studies financed by the project under Component 1 will be sustained; they have
resulted in the design of additional projects (Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project, and
AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Disease Control Project). The provincial OS studies conducted under this
component are being used by the provinces to reduce financial deficits and provincial subsidies.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Bank will finance expenditures related to disseminating the experiences of the 15 pilot hospitals to
other provinces. At the national level, the UEC will also share the reports from consulting firms with the
relevant departments on the MOH, which have the potential to improve their functioning. At the provincial
level, as advised by the Bank, provincial health ministries of CBA, PBA and PM have agreed to include the
expenditure for maintaining hospital equipment into their annual budget. Nationwide, health policies reflect
substantive aspects of the sector transformation, including Decree 939/2000 (public hospital with
decentralized management). Transfer of outcomes and knowledge related to planning, control and
regulation to the relevant MOH subsecretariat has been foreseen.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:



The Bank's perfomiance in the identification of the project was marginally satisfactory. Bank documents
indicate that project preparation was well organized and highly satisfactory. The Bank, which had a
harmonious team with a good skill mix, included intemational specialists in hospital management, hospital
architecture and health management. During the project appraisal, the Bank team took into account the
technical complexity of the project and assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a
consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal. The positive
evaluation of the preparation process, however, must be weighed against the design flaws that were made
manifest during implementation - namely, the underestimation of the severity of the risks implied by the
hospital reform.
7.2 Supervision
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was unsatisfactory, largely because the
Bank appears to have missed the "big picture" during PRESSAL's implementation. Over the five-year
implementation period, there were 12 supervision missions, with an average of 2.4 missions per year, and
in general the Bank's client relationship was cordial and productive. However, Bank supervision did not
manage the considerable challenges of the PRESSAL project in a fully satisfactory manner. In particular,
at various times during implementation, Bank task managers and management may have missed signals
that the project was seriously off-track. Specific disbursement delays, evidence of misprocurement and
lack of substantive progress on the development of autonomous hospitals were all identified in a timely
manner and dealt with. For example, the Bank addressed the procurement and corruption problems
appropriately, alerting the corresponding authorities and conducting intemal investigation by the
Investigations Unit under the Department of Institutional Integrity. However, the Bank consistently chose
to maintain the original project objectives, making only marginal changes in a somewhat patchwork
fashion. Full-scale reformulation was not pursued, despite evidence - quite clear in retrospect - that the
original development objectives were not realistic, given the health sector environment in Argentina.
When the gravity of the problems was finally recognized it was already too late to redirect the project and
supervision concentrated on damage control.
7 3 Overall Bank perfornmance:
Overall, the Bank performance was unsatisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower embraced a
strategic approach to health sector reform that was gradual, participatory, and based on the implementation
of pilot and demonstration experiences. During the preparation stage, the Borrower displayed strong
willingness and support to the objectives of the project. Commitment to change and technical capacity was
identified at the level of individuals in the MOH, provincial health ministries, and hospitals and they
worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during implementation was unsatisfactory. Although the project did not
suffer from any counterpart funding problems, the Government failed in tackling both the political risk and
the managerial capacity risk, which were identified at appraisal. The project implementation demonstrated
the Government's weak commitment and lack of institutional capacity. The project was also plagued by
perpetual problems in procurement, which became so serious that implementation was suspended at one
point.
- 12 -



Hospital information system software was not acquired in a timely fashion because the MOH stopped the
process, arguing that a different software system, which the Ministry already owned, could be used. That
software was later assessed by an international expert to be obsolete, but by that point it was too late in
project implementation to initiate a new round of bidding.
The Government did not respond effectively to the Bank's proposal to deal with the delays in the
Subsidiary Loan agreements, and did not agree to the option of expanding PRESSAL's coverage to
interested provinces.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the MOH was unsatisfactory.  Because of the Ministry's internal bureaucracy,
implementation progress was slow, especially during the first half of the project. For instance, cumulative
disbursement in December 1997 - 20 months after the project was declared effective - was only US$7.9
million, compared to the SAR estimate of US$40.0 million by that point; the disbursement lag was greater
than 80 percent. The December 1998 mid-term review estimated a disbursement lag of 74 percent, with
US$18.4 million in cumulative disbursement compared to the anticipated US$68.0 million. Although this
situation later improved slightly, the overall disbursement lag was relatively high during entire
implementation period.
Performance of the UEC in project management was generally unsatisfactory. The unit failed to address
complaints from bidders and consultants and did not take measures to strengthen and separate functions in
the area of procurement as advised by the Bank. During the five-year implementation period, the Project
Coordinator was changed six times because of various allegations, and flaws in procurement and
administrative concems in the MOH. This reflected serious lack of stability on the part of the UEC.
There were numerous complaints from bidders and consultants regarding poorly conducted procurement
procedures, inadequate budgeting, conflicts of interest, and lack of attention to the financial health of firms
awarded large contracts for works and consultancy contracts. The MOH was ineffective in dealing with
these allegations and procurement problems, both at national and provincial levels. This delayed the
implementation and resulted in the public discrediting of the project, starting in 2000.
The UEC's performance in monitoring and evaluation was satisfactory. There were both intemal and
extemal evaluations of the performance of the pilot hospitals. Its performance in financial management
was also satisfactory. The project had an adequate accounting system, financial reporting system, and
separation of responsibilities and tasks. These provided timely and reliable information on project financial
flows.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
The overall perforrnance of the Borrower was unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
1. The Bank should encourage the Borrower to request a reformulation of a project if and when it
becomes clear that the development objectives are no longer feasible. PRESSAL limped along during
most of its lifetime, and consistently was a troubled and troublesome project, from the perspectives of both
Bank and client. Large amounts of managerial and technical energy were devoted to marginal "fixes" to
problems that in fact required a full-scale re-thinking of the project. In retrospect, it can be argued that
cancellation or reformulation of the project would have led to better outcomes.
- 13-



2. Operations requiring provincial commitments should obtain those commitments before project
approval. Required legal instruments - such as the legislative authorization required when a province
becomes indebted - should be signed as a condition for negotiation, to minimize post-effectiveness delays.
3. A reform is a political process first, and only later a technical process; it requires on both a
creation of the political viability and development of technical feasibility. For both of these aspects,
participation outside of the health sector and commnunication with civil society is essential. Having a
broader base of support for the concept of autonomous hospitals might have led to less variation in
politicians' views about PRESSAL with changes in government administrations.
4. In a reform-oriented project, investment in civil works should be made contingent on adoption of
specific changes in the sectoral "software" (e.g., management, human resources, or the other subjects
of the reform). In PRESSAL, the link between the reform and the civil works was inconsistent, and the
civil works ended up being implemented largely in isolation from management improvements. Thus, many
opportunities for synergy and sustainability in project benefits were lost.
5. Intense supervision is crucial for smooth project implementation, particularly In the face of
political turbulence. In the early part of the project, the task team was provided with sufficient budget for
close supervision, and the Bank was able to keep track of all aspect of the project and take necessary
remedial measures. Towards the end of the project, severe budgetary constraints prevented the task team
from close supervision of civil works and technical aspects of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower has carried out its own evaluation of the Project and has reported that it agrees with the
content of the Implementation Completion Report.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.
10. Additional Information
ICR Team
Ruth Levine (ICR Task Team Leader)
Luis Perez (Consultant)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Juan P. Uribe (Co-Task Team Leader)
Natalia Moncada (Program Assistant)
Coments Received from:
Ariel Fiszbein (Sector Leader)
Evangeline Javier (Sector Manager)
Alexandre Abrantes (Sector Manager, AFTH2)
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Impact Indicators
Project Components                     Indicator              Projected in  Current / Last evaluation
SAR        ___________________
1. Political Framework     Studies were initiated, completed as  Dec. 1996  Dec 1998 Mid Term Mission, all studies
Reforms                    well as the initiation of Pilot test on          were completed.
recommendations made on the studies Dec. 1997
2. Progress Reports on The
Implementation of Pilot
Hospitals
* Infrastructure           Civil works initiated and in    Dec. 1996       Delay in the initiation of implementation
5 in the Province of Buenos  mplementation at 40 % in all                  of civil works:
Aires,                     urisdictions                                    (i)  in Sep. of 1997 1 is
4 in the City of Buenos Aires                                               nitiated,
and                        Concluded phase of 40 % and     Dec.1997        (ii) in 1998 4 are
3 in the Province of Mendoza  implementation on the remaining 60 %         initiated
n all jurisdictions                             (iii) in 1999, 3 and
Total: 15 forecasted                                                       (iv) in year 2000, another
4 works are initiated.
Total: 12.
* Information Technology  National Strategic Plan          Dec. 1996       Dec. 1997
Initiation of the bidding process for the
first two hospitals              Dec 1996
First two hospitals are completed and
fully operational in each jurisdiction.
Dec 1998
Initiation of the bidding process for the
three last hospitals in each jurisdiction        Dec 1999: Terms of
Dec 1998        Reference for the
Implementation process of the last               International Public
three hospitals                                  Bidding.
In August 2000. Suspended
All hospitals are fully operational  Dec. 1999   due to lack of time for the
fulfillment on the terms
Dec. 2000
Institutional Development  Initiated in the two first hospitals of  Dec. 1996
each junsdiction
Completion in the two first hospitals
and initiated in the last ones of each  Dec 1998  Fully executed. Objectives on global
urisdiction                                      hange are reached at 40 %
In process in the last three hospitals of
eachjurisdiction                 Dec. 1999
Finalized and in full operation in all
targeted hospitals               Dec. 2000
- 15 -



3. Dissemination of Reform  1. Technical Assistance to jurisdictions In December 1998 TA was made available to 14 provinces not
Initiatives                 and other entities no beneficiaries of  the transfer of  included under component II
the pilot experience.            recommendations
made under
2. Human Resources Development and component I of the
Tining                           roject should
have been       2. 2.1: Biddings results:
2.1 Training scholarships Plan    nitiated.      I International: 7
II International: 15
2.2 National and Intemational                    III National: 42
Seminars                         Amendment       IV National: 20
September 15
1999, added "the  I st. International Seminar about Financing
2.3 Human Resources technical      nefit of TA to  of the Health Sector Bariloche (June 1997)
development System:              the Ministries of Regional Seminar on Management
(i)  Hospital Management and     Public Health of  Contracts La Pampa. Date: April 1998.
dministration                  the Provinces    Exchange on Management Experiences
(ii)  Health Economy.            (MSP), Public   Bariloche. Date: November 1999
(iii) Public Health (Epidemiology  Hospitals and  "Management Experiences of the Health
and statistics)                  Social Works on  Services" Buenos Aires. Date: November
the Provinces".  1999.
2. 2.3: Results:
152 trained hospital administrators within
he provinces.
3.) Web Page of PRESSAL as of October
1998.
4.) December 2000
3.-) information dissemination and               Workshops in the provinces of
social communication                             Santa Fe, Cordoba, Catamarca; Misiones
256 attending officials
4.) Dissemination Program and
_Technological Transfer
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs-and Financing
Annex 2a (1) Project Cost by Component
Component                 Budget      Accumulative   Reimbursements       Projected        Projected         % of
s/ SAR       Execution      Jan -April '02   Reimbursements    Accumulative      Advance
unffl         (sue 87) (1)        May-          Execution tfil
31/1212001                         Jun '02 (2)       30/06/02
1. Formulation of policy reforms
I Separation design between loans and
financing in the provinces             0.04           0.04            0.00              0.00              0.04          100.0%
2. Relevamiento of health services     0.82           0 82            0.00              0.00              0.82          100.0%
3. Sanitary pnorities in Argentina     0.09           0.09            0.00              0.00              0.09          100.0%
4. Payment systems design in hospitals
5. Design of systems to identify the   0.07           0.07            0.00              0.00              0.07          100.0%
beneficiaries of the diverse coverage's  0.11         0 11            0.00              0.00              0.11          100.0%
6. Regulatory framework for insurers and
pnvate loaners                         0.00           0.00            0 00              0.00              0.00           0.0Yo
7. Quality Control
8 Social Provincial projects Reform    0.00           0.00            0.00              0.00              0.00           0.0%
9. AIDS                                1.85           1.85            0.00              0.00               1.85         100.0%
10. Study of Pre-inversion             0 32          0.32             0.00              0.00              0.32          100.0%
0.03          0 03             0.00              0.00              0.03          100.0%
Total
3.33          3.33            0.00               0.00             3.33          100.0%
11. Pilot program for Independent
Hospitals
1. Infrastructure improvement
2. Insatutional development            80.36         73.06            0.21              0.25             73.52          91.5%
14.49         13.49            0.00              0.00              13.49         93.1%
Total
94.85         86.55            0.21               0.25             87.01         91.7%
111. Reforms disemination
1. Technical Assistance
2. Training programs                   5.36          5.36             0.00              0 06              5.42          101.5%
3.03          2.99            0.02               0.00              3.01          99.3%
Total
8.39          8.35            0.02               0.06              8.43         100.5%
IV: Management
1. Management                          8.73          9.21             0.00              0.00              9.21         105.5%
Total                                  8.73          9.21             0.00              0.00              9.21         105.5%
PRESSS
2.86          1.96             0.00              0.00              1.96          68.5%
P.P.F.
1.19          1.19            0.00               0.00              1.19         100.0%/0
LOAN TOTAL                             119.35         110.59           0.23              0.31          111.13            93.1%
Non Eligible Expenses
Administatve Cost PNUD                                 2.16            0.00              0.02              2.18
Auditing Cost                                          0.23            0.00              0.01              0.24
Honoranes UEC y UEPs                                   0.00            0 03              0.06              0.09
Banking Costs UEPs                                     0.02            0.00              0.00              0.02
Non-eligible consulting conracts                       0 13            0.00              0.00              0.13
Non- eligible project contacts-                        0.75            0.00              0.00              0.75
Non-eligible Equipment Contracts                       0.23            0.00              0.00              0.23
Expenses UEP Pcia. of Buenos Aires                     0.25            0.00              0.00              0.25
( Honoranes, Others, Equip. Mant.)
Non Eligible expenses subtotal          0.00           3.77            0.03              0.09              3.89           0.0%
PROJECT TOTAL                          119.35        114.36            0.26              0.40             115.02         96.4%h
- 17 -



Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
dgets/SARN           '            Aumulatve'ProJdcteilExecutl6ntto,
-9 t~,                                         ,       ___  __   _______ n  tr   w +s ^Ns  fl 30/06/2002
Categoryq             IUPI     LPN: 'OTHERS ITOTL i        _,,_      LPI ;"     "LPL4,?1 >OTHERS   -NFBS : '-.T.O.TAL
1. Community Service          48.97    3. 10     52.07               31.21      19.40      0.34     0.75      51.70
2. Teams               9.60    9 36    2.90      21.86               21.04       0.36      0.07     0 23      21.70
3. Consultoria                         32.64     32.86                                    26 35     0.13      26.48
4. P.P.F.                               1 19      1.19                                     1.19                1.19
5. Not Assigned                                   0.00                                     0.00                0.00
6. Administration                       8 73      8.73                                     9.21     2.78      11.99
PRESSAIL Total         9.60 , 58.33  ,*4856     4116.49              52.255     19.'7,6   437r16  '.3.89  ',,2  113.06
PRESSS                                  2.86      2.86                                     1.96      -         1.96
Generob~Total          9.60 '  58.33            A 51.4  119.35       52.25^.,   19.76 -   39`2,     3.89,, !- tI115.02
"Paitiipation     8.0%    48.9%   43.1%     100.0%              45.4%       17.6%     34.0%     3.4%     100.0%
,  ., . _____________    56.9%        43.1%     100.0%                    62 6%           34.0%     3.4%     100.0%
Notes:
Detamls of the concepts included in others:             Details of the concepts included in NBF
Selection based in cost and quality  20.61              Administrative Cost                  2.18
Individual Consultants       9.7               Auditing Cost                                 0.24
Direct Contracting                    2.62              Honoraries UEC & UEPs                          0.09
Contest and Minor expenses            3 04              Banking costs UEPs                   0.02
P.P.F.                                1.19              Non Elegible Consulting Contracts              0.13
PRESSS                                1.96              Non Elegible Work Contracts                    0.75
Other Totals                          39.12             Non Elegible Equipment Contracts               0.23
UEP Pcia. De Buenos aires Expenses             0.25
Total of non eligible concepts       3.89
- 18 -



Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component
Budget s / SAR        Accumulative        % de Advance
Execudon until
31/12/2001
Component                                    BIRF      LOCAL          BIRF     LOCAL     BIRF 70% LOCAL
70%       30%            70%      30%                 30%
1. Pollcitcs Formuladon for the reforms
1. Separation design between loans and financing in the
provtnces                                    0.3       0.3            0.03     0.01      100.0%     100.0%
2. Relevamiento of health services
3. Sanitary pnorities in Argentina           0.57      0.57          0.57     0.25       100.0W    100.0%
4. Payment systems design in hospitals       0.06      0.06          0.06     0.03       100.0%    100.0%
5. Design of systems to identify the beneficiaries of the  0.05  0.05  0.05   0.02       100 0%    100.0%
diverse                                      0.08      0.08           0.08     0 03      100.0%    100.0%
coverage's
6. Regulatory fiamework for insurers and pnvate  0.00  0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00/0     0.0/
loaners
7. Quality Control                           0.00      0.00          0.00     0.00      0.0%       0.0%
8 Social Provincial projects Reform          1.30      1.30          1 30     0.55       100.0%    100.0%
9. AIDS                                      0.22      0.22          0.22     0.10       100.0%    100.0%
10. Pre-inversion Study                      0.02      0.02          0.02      0.01      100.0%    100.0%
Component total I              2.33      2.33           .33     1.00      100.0%     100.0%
11. Independent hospitals PUot program
1. Infrastructure improvement                56.25     56.25         51.46    22.06     91.5%     91.7%
2. Institutional development                 10.14     10.14          .44     4.05      93.7%      93.1%
Component total 11             66.39      66.39         60.90    26.11     91.7%      1.7%
111. Reforms disemination
1. Technical Assistance                      3.75      3.75          3.79     1.63      101.1%     101.2%
2. Training programs                         2.12      2.12          2.11     0.90      99.5%       8.9%
Component total 111           5.87       5.87          5.90     2.53      100.5%    100.5%
IV: Management
1. Management                               6.11       6.11          6.45     2.76      105.6%     105.3%
Component total IV              6.11      6.11          6.45     2.76      105.6%     105.3%
PRESSS                                       2.00       2.00          1.37     0.59      68.5%     68.5%
P.P.F.                                       1.19       1.19          1.19     _         100.0%
Loan Total                                   83.89     35.46          78.14    32.99     93.1%     93.1%
Non Eligible expenses
Administrative Cost PNUD                                                       2.18
Auditing Cost                                                                  0.24
Honoranes UEC & UEPs                                                           0.09
Banking Costs UEPs                                                             0.02
Non-eligible consulting contracts                                              0.13
Non-eligible project contracts                                                 0.75
Non-eligible equipment contracts                                               0.23
Expenses UEP Pcia. Of Buenos Aires (Honoranes,                                 0.25
Otheres, Eqip Mant.)
Non Eligble expenses subtotal                                                  3.89
Project Total                                83.89     35.46          78.14    36.88     93.1%      104.0%
Financed       67.9%    32.1%
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
August/95                   I    1 Public Health Specialist        S            HS
Appraisal/Negotiation
April /96                   2    1 Consultant, 1 Public            HS           HS
Health Specialist
Supervision
June/96                      2   Public Health Specialist,         S            HS
Consultant
August/96                    1   Public Health Specialist          S            HS
December/96                  2   Operations Officer, Health        S            HS
Economist
July/97                      2   Operations Officer, Health        S            HS
Economist
December/97                  4   Health Economist, Operations      S            HS
Officer, Consultant, Consultant
July/98                      6   Health Economist, Health Care     U             S
Policy, Quality Assurance
Specialist, Health Architect,
Operations Officer, Financial
Management Officer
December/98                  4   Health Care Policy Specialist,     S            S
Health Economist, Health
Architect, Program Assistant
June/99                      4   Health Economist, Health Care      S            S
Policy Specialist, Health
Architect, Consultant
August/00                    2   Health Specialist, Operations      S            S
Officer
November/00                  4   Health Specialist, Procurement     S            U
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist,
Financial Management Specialist
April/01                     I   Health Specialist                  S             S
ICR
November/01                 2    Procurement Specialist/TM,         S             S
Civil Engineer Consultant
- 21 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ c000)
Identification/Preparation                  39.40                         112.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                        N/A
Supervision                                63.76                          183.0
ICR                                          0.78                           2.3
Total                                      104.00                         297.3
No disaggreated data for staff members are available for years previous to FY98. Therefore, staff data for those years was
estimated.
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H OSU*M O N O NA
O Physical                            O H OSUOM O N        O NA
O Financial                           O H OSUOM * N        O NA
O Institutional Development           O H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
F Environmental                       OH   OSUOM O N       * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM * N O NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N        * NA
E Private sector development          0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
Ol Public sector management           0 H O SU * M    0 N 0 NA
Ol Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N        * NA
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
? Lending                                           OHS*S        OLU   OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS       * u   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S     * U   0 HU
Ol Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       * u   O HU
rO Overall                                          OHS OS       *U    O HU
-24 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
PRESSAL                                    T <                        i      -
TYPE OF                      /2             U3c,~~,~-.D~ATE'
Text            RRSSAM - Capacity Building of the Health System. 19 Conourbano Bonaerense  none
participating parties.
Office          AR - Proposed Greater Buenos Aires HP identification Mission Back to office  07/29/93
Memorandum      report
Office          AR - Proposed Health Sector Development Project Preparation Mission Back to  12/03/93
Memorandum      office report
Text            Health Sector Reform Project - Aide memone                             03/01/94
Office          AR- Buenos Aires Seminar en HSR in LAC - Preparation of a PHSDP B to 0 report  04/05/94
Memorandum
Office          AR - HSDP Preparation Mission Back to Office Report                    09/23/94
Memorandum
Office          AR: hsdp Pre-Appraisal Mission Back to Office Report                    12/28/94
Memorandum
Office          AR - Provincial HSDP - Appraisal Mission - Back to Office Report       04/10/95
Memorandum
Office          AR - Provincial HSDP - Appraisal Mission - Back to Office Report       06/30/95
Memorandum
Office          Parag- Maternal and Child HP, AR HIRP Provincial HSDP, Urug- HSDP B to 0  10/06/95
Memorandum      report
Office          AR Provincial Health Sector Development Project.. Back to Office Report  05/07/96
Memorandum
Office          AR Provincial HSDP, HSDP Back to Office report                         06/19/96
Memorandum
Office          AR Provincial HSDP, HSDP Back to Office report                          11/26/96
Memorandum
Office          AR - Provincial HSDP - Ln -30310-AR - Back to Office Report             12/20/97
Memorandum
Text            Minutes of agreement AR: PDSSP PRESSAL WB Supervision Mission           07/30/98
Office          AR - PHSDP (In 30310-AR). Supervision Report                            08/11/98
Memorandum
Office          AR - PHSDP (In 39310-AR). Mid - Term Review Supervision Report          12/14/98
Memorandum
Office          Portfolio Status Update AR. Provincial HSRP (AR-PE 6030) LN 3931 AR     05/19/99
Memorandum
Office          Supervision Mission Report AR Provincial HSDP (AR-PE 3931)              07/30/99
Memorandum
Text            Minutes of agreement AR PDSS in the Provincial LN 3931-AR               09/12/99
e-mail          Argentina Provincial Health Sector Development Supervision              09/21/99
Report          Health Sector Transition Cabinet - Report on the status of PRESSAL Arq. A de  11/01/99
Debuchy
e-mail          LCSHD Supervision Mission Report: Argentina Provincial HSD LN 3931 AR   12/15/99
Text            Aide Memorie - WB Mision March 20 through 24, 2000 LN 3931 - AR         04/06/00
Text            Minutes of Agreement (Aide Memorie) AR Provincial PDSS                  08/13/00
- 25 -



e-mail          BTOR and Aide Memoire - PRESSAL (AR)                                    11/16/00
Report          PRESSAL - Report on implemented activities and the development of the   11/01/00
management program
Report          consultant firms technical evaluation of elegible hospitals.            12/29/00
Report          Dissemination and technology transfer program                           11/30/00
Letter          Letter No. 1461/00 SPRS from Health Ministry - 4004-AR/393 1-AR         1226/00
Report         financial management report - PRESSAL                                    12/31/00
Text            Aide memorie - Ln BIRF 4004-AR and ammendment IBRD 3931 -AR             01/05/01
Report          Evaluation on results and impacts of the health sector reform program.  01/29/01
Report          Operational Management Report - PRESSAL                                 02/01/01
Report          Evaluation of the health sector reform program - PRESSAL                07/01/02
Report          Evaluation on the technical assistance provided by consultants on hospital  07/01/02
organization and mangement
Report          Evaluation of the health sector reform program - PRESSAL- by consultant Clapp &  07/01/02
maine
Report          Completion report - Social security rehabilitation program              10/01/02
- 26 -



IBRD 29348
-20-    a             BOLIVIA           r      0                                                    20'-
|         av   r           N                          BRAZIPARAGUAYL
it'.       *Scltm /*I% odo!
}   e    _ ~~S A L TA;,  _       'Fomsih 
'Formosa/
) c'       *t;  Tu4um6n  CHA CO" c
T C U, SANTIAGO        Resistencia  Posodors_," c
/  M$t \  0 <Santiago del cstera  / orrientes ,"
**J _A                ESTERO |\
>> I  * RIOJA\'       ISANTA I 
-30             SAN \                      FE  )                                                    30-
u  JUA             C.6rdobo 'Santo,
\ r   esnJu'n An             F6 cOar=n6  i    
< \     xtui / i    /,             URUGUAY
7     \~~~SA N'                1jen
U  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                   B ~~~~~~s Aire
E'MENDOZA:            I
/  #\   -JSantoRasas |  BUENOS                       A T L A N T I C
' '-I      i X      :      LA            AIRES
_  y  .  ~4   PAM PA
_NEUQUEN1(                            /
t-) U       \ Neuqu6                                                       0  C E A N
7  RIO
40                    NEGRO      led                       A    G    N-
_ _ ....._ iDARGENTINA
Golf-GofNuevo
Rawson
S  (  8  CHUBUT       fS
CHUB UT *   f                                0    PROVINCE CAPITALS
t                                                    I2  ~ < >  ' 69 | NATIONAL CAPITAL
*Z (_    _(                                  I-- --~ |PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
->  - -f INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SANTA
9   (-~ <CRUZ                   FALKLAND ISLANDS
(MALVINAS)
-50'           'o Gollegos                                           0 100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
I                    '~~~~~,''.~~~~XP       L I I I I I 
A P-'  OCE4RN SOVE trENTY OM hE
1SLANDS  1ErIST ENA 5J5NJ4  WM55a4544  I  I  I 
TIS SCVM0rt AN THE UX WfOsHA S  0   100  200   300  400 Miles
7WE SLANVS.
This mop was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
u.,                     M^^ AThe boundaries, colors. denominotions and onyother informahon shown
ERRTl coc ICA           on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group, any
>  4 DEL FUEGO                Iudgment on the legalstatus of any temtory, or any endorsement or
acceptonce of such boundones
70'                                                                      50'
APRIL 1998









IMAGING
Report No.:        24325
Type:     ICR



