Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14399-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JULY 5, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit = Argentine Peso (Arg$)
US$1 = Arg$1 (March 1, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANSSAL       Administraci6n Nacional de Seguros de Salud (National
Administration of Health Insurance)
BN           Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (Bank of the Argentine Nation)
CES          Convenio de Ejecuci6n y Subsidiario del Pr6stamo Naci6n-
Jurisdicci6n
Conurbano   Peri-urban area
GBA          Gran Buenos Aires (Greater Buenos Aires)
HPA          Hospital Publico Autogestionado (Autonomous Public Hospital)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MCBA         Municipalidad de Buenos Aires (Municipality of Buenos Aires)
MIS          Management Information System
MOE          Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos
(Ministry of Economy and Public Works)
MSAS         Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social
(Ministry of Health and Social Action)
MSP          Ministerio de Salud Provincial (Provincial Ministry of Health and MCBA)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
O&M          Organizational and Management
OSs          Obras Sociales (Health Insurance Fund)
PAMI         Plan de Atenci6n Medica Integral
PBA          Province of Buenos Aires
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
POM          Province of Mendoza
PRESSAL    Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud (Provincial Health Sector Development
Project)
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TOR          Terms of Reference
UEC          Unidad Ejecutiva Central del Proyecto de Desarrollo del
Sector Salud en las Provincias
UEP          Unidad Ejecutora Provincial
UNDP         United Nations Development Program



ARGENTINA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND   ................................   1
2. THE HEALTH SECTOR ...............                                           2
A. Health Status ..............................  2
B. Structure of the Health Sector ....................  2
C. Initiatives for Reform  .........................  5
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT POLICY  ....                        .......   5
A.   Issues    ..................................                      5
B. Government Sectoral Policy  .....................  7
4. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR   ....                       ........  7
A. Bank's Role and Strategy  ......................  7
B. The Bank's Experience and Lessons Learned ....            .......   8
5. THE PROJECT ................................. 10
A. Project Objectives and Concept ................... 10
B. Detailed Project Description ..................... 12
6. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN   ......                       ........ 17
A. Project Costs .............................. 17
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability  ....         ........ 18
C. Financing Plan ............................. 19
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....                    ..................  19
A. Status of Preparation  ......................... 19
B. Project Management and Coordination  .............. 19
C. Implementation Schedule ....................... 22
D. Procurement .............................. 22
E. Disbursements and Accounts  .................... 27
F. Financial Management, Accounting, and Audits ...           ...... 28
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision  ...        ..... 29
H. Environmental Impact  ........................ 30
8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS  ................... 30
A. Benefits  ................................. 30
B.   Risks   ...................................   31
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...... 31
A. Agreements Reached  ......................... 31
B. Recommendation ............................ 34



ANNEXES
A      Table 1: Distribution of Health Expenditures by Institution, 1993
Table 2: Estimated Health Expenditures and Coverage in Argentina by Institution
B      Component I: Policy Reform Studies
C      Institutional Development - Key Areas
D      Table 1: Detailed Project Cost Summary
Table 2: Financing Plan by Year
E      Organizational Charts:        Ministry of Health and Social Programs
Project Coordination Unit (UEC)
Provincial Project Coordination Unit (UEP)
F      Impact Indicators
G      Implementation Schedule
H      Table 1: Disbursement Forecast
Table 2: Disbursement Allocations
I      Process Indicators
J      Project Supervision Plan
K      Project Implementation Plan by Components
L      Selected Documents and Data
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission which visited Argentina in March
1995, led by Mr. Xavier Coll (LAIHR) and Mr. Cristian Baeza (LA1HR) and consisting of Mr. Reynaldo
Pastor (LEGLA) and Mrs. Brenda Enuton (LAlHR). A pre-appraisal mission visited Argentina in
December 1994, led by Mr. Xavier Coll and consisting of Mr. Cristian Baeza (LA1HR) and Mr. Joao
Urbano (Consultant). Also participated in preparation missions Messrs./Mmes: Philip Musgrove (PHN),
Hector Sanchez (Consultant) and Rafael Bengoa. (Consultant). Document processing and edition have
been done by Mrs. Patricia Villag6mez. Peer reviewers are Messrs./Mmes: William McGreevey (PHN),
Philip Musgrove (PHN) and Julian Schweitzer (LA3HR). Messrs. Alain Colliou and Gobind T. Nankani
are, respectively, the Division Chief and the Department Director for this operation.



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTIH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                          Argentine Republic
Implementing Agency:               Ministry of Health and Social Action (MSAS), the Provinces of
Buenos Aires (PBA) and Mendoza (POM), and the Municipality
of Buenos Aires (MCBA)
Poverty:                           Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:                            US$101.4 million equivalent (including up to US$2.0 million
equivalent of retroactive financing).
Terms:                             Standard variable interest rate, with maturity of 15 years, including
five years of grace.
Commitment Fee:                    0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                    See para. 6.4
Net Present Value                  Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:           No. 14399-AR
Map:                               MBRDNo. 25587
Project Identification Number:     AR-PA-6030






ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A.    General Country Data                                      Year
GNP Per Capita (US$)                        6,050        1992
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)           2,767        1992
Population Estimate (Millions)                33.1       1992
Density (Habitants/Km2)                        12        1992
Urban Population (% of Total)                  87        1992
B.    Social Indicators
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                     9       1992
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)             1       1992
Total Fertility Rate (birth per woman)           2.8     1992
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                    20       1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)               29       1992
Prevalence of Malnutrition (under 5)            25       1992
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                71       1992
Adults Illiteracy Rate (% of per. over 18)       5       1990
Source: World Bank, World Development Report, 1994.






ARGENTINA
HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.1  In 1989, Argentina embarked on an ambitious structural reform
program to reverse a long period of economic stagnation. The program,
which has been remarkable both in its scope and its implementation speed,
has improved tax structure and administration, privatized public enterprises,
reformed public administration, and reduced public employment. These
measures, along with trade liberalization and a Convertibility Law which has
a fixed exchange rate that reinforced the elimination of inflationary finance,
have brought price stability, spurred GDP growth and created a solid base
for sustainable development.
1.2    While the rapid recovery based on recent reforms has demonstrated
the long untapped potential of the economy, sustaining growth and extending
its benefits will require consolidation of macroeconomic reforms and greater
emphasis on human resource development. Since reform in the social sectors
has lagged behind economic adjustment and restructuring of the productive
sectors, the poorest segments of the population have suffered
disproportionately from the country's past disarray. The proportion of the
population living in poverty doubled from 1980 to 1989, as formal sector
employment stagnated and bursts of hyperinflation eroded the real wages of
the poor. At the same time, social services failed to cushion the fall of many
Argentines into poverty; few programs were targeted to the poor, while fiscal
authority and weak administration led to a severe deterioration of social
services throughout the eighties.
1.3  In recent years, while expenditures on social insurance, health, and
education have been growing at a faster pace than other public expenditures,
the Government has been hampered by costly and inefficient delivery of
services, a lack of targeting for priority beneficiaries, and a weak history of
coordination between the sub-national governments and the federal
government.



- 2 -
2. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Health Status
2.1   Health indicators are less satisfactory than current spending levels
would predict. With per capita outlays for health services around US$400,
health expenditures are well above that of middle-income countries, such as
Chile (US$250) and Costa Rica (US$160). Yet, both these countries have
infant mortality rates--16 and 14 per 1,000 live births, respectively--lower
than Argentina's 25 per 1,000. The situation is comparatively worse for the
40 to 60 age-group: the age adjusted mortality rate of 8.5 deaths per 1,000
is greater than the comparative value of 7.6 for Cuba and Costa Rica.
2.2   Demographic Dynamics and the Epidemiological Transition. A
prolonged period of declining fertility and increased life expectancy has
resulted in an aging population. It is estimated that in 1993, almost nine
percent of the population was 65 years old or older. The aging population is
associated with a higher prevalence of chronic and degenerative diseases.
Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, cancer, and traumas already
accounted for almost 63 percent of all deaths in 1992. The coexistence of a
transitional epidemiological profile, mirroring the high incidence of infectious
diseases and the increased prevalence of chronic diseases, reveals the
magnitude and complexity of future demands on the system.
B. Structure of the Health Sector
2.3   The structure of the health finance and delivery systems reflects the
complexity of the government's federal structure and the historic presence of
unions in the management of welfare programs and institutions. The three
health care sub-sectors--public, quasi-public health insurance funds, and
private--constitute an intricate and ineffectual structure that has developed
through successive and often contradictory policies. The health system is ill-
prepared to face the challenges of increasing demands for equity and
efficiency improvements.
2.4   Given the lack of standardization of provincial accounts and the
absence of a private sector regulatory agency, consolidated and reliable
information on health sector financing and expenditures is extremely scarce.
The Government estimates that in 1993, total health expenditures were



-3-
Arg$18,374 million or about 7.2 of GDP'. Annex A (rables 1.1 and 1.2)
includes the most recent estimates of health sector coverage and expenditures.
Public Sub-Sector
2.5    The public sector accounts for about one-third of sector financing and
covers the uninsured and under-insured (representing, respectively, about 22
and 10 percent of the population). Following the decentralization process,
the federal Ministry of Health and Social Action (Ministerio de Salud Pjblica
y Acci6n Social-MSAS) remains, in theory, the policy-making, normative and
regulatory authority, while the provision and financing of services has been
shifted to the provincial ministries of health and municipalities (Ministerios
de Salud Provincial-MSPs). To date, however, there is no clear-cut division
of authority among the three levels, resulting in complicated administrative
and budget structures, weak policy-making, and fragmented planning
responsibilities.
2.6   Public sub-sector financing and expenditures can be broadly assigned
to three levels of government, i.e., national (MSAS), provincial (MSP) and
municipal. It is estimated that public sector expenditures in health represent
about 21 percent of total expenditures. The provinces account for the largest
share of the outlays (75 percent), while the municipal and federal levels are
responsible for 16 and 9 percent, respectively, of total expenditures.
Taxation (general and local) is the primary source of financing for the public
sector. Given the complexity of intergovernmental transfers (e.g., national
transfers to the provinces do not earmark specific funds for health), no
reliable information exists as to the level of funding from each source.
2.7   Service delivery capacity in the public sector is seriously eroded, both
as a result of the lack of financing and of severe management inefficiencies.
Service provision is predominantly hospital-based. Public hospitals are
primarily managed by provincial governments and represent about 60 percent
of the sector's installed capacity. More than 3,000 public hospitals and
related public health facilities account for about 74,000 hospital beds and
provide almost two million annual hospital discharges. Most hospitals are
old and inadequately maintained, have obsolete equipment, and are poorly
managed. Internal inefficiencies are further magnified by the lack of
accountability of hospital directors. As decision-making is highly centralized
at the level of the MSPs, hospitals have limited authority to achieve
improvements in efficiency.
1. A recent study of the World Bank on health expenditures in Latin America (Healh Expendires in Latin
America, LATAD, September 1994) cstimates, however, that health expenditurcs in Argentina represent 9.6 percent
of GDP (5.9 percent public and 3.7 percent private).



-4-
Occupational Health Insurance Funds
2.8   The occupational health insurance funds (Obras Sociales-OSs) cover
over half the population and account for 51 percent (1993) of sector
expenditures. There are over 300 OSs, and they include, inter alia, the
national funds, the fund for retired and pensioned persons (Plan de Atenci6n
Medica Integral-PAMI), and the provincial OSs. The funds vary widely in
size (e.g., the five largest OSs account for over half the total coverage),
financial stability, and benefits provided. The creation of the National
Administration of Health Insurance (Administraci6n Nacional de Seguros de
Salud-ANSSAL), in 1989, and the establishment of a redistribution fund to
cross-subsidize poorer OSs did not improve quality and coverage standards.
Instead, subsidies have served, to a large extent, as political rewards or
support for inefficient OSs.
2.9   OSs are funded by a wage tax where employers and employees
contribute six and three percent of wages, respectively'. Financing also
involves public subsidies from direct federal budget transfers, provincial
subsidies, and hidden subsidies through "free" assistance of OSs beneficiaries
in public hospitals. It is estimated that one-third of public hospital discharges
involve OSs beneficiaries, and that fees from OSs are collected in less than
20 percent of eligible cases. Since individuals involved with OSs are
required to contribute substantial co-payments, poorer beneficiaries
increasingly resort to the provision of services by public sector institutions.
Private Sector
2.10 The private sector consists of financial intermediaries and providers.
The sector has expanded rapidly in recent years as a result of skillful
marketing, growth of OSs, and increasing consumer dissatisfaction with the
public sector. Private providers account for 40 percent of hospital beds, over
40 percent of hospital admissions, and a third of outpatient visits. A
majority of services are provided under contracts with OSs and private
insurance. Around 200 private insurance institutions (Pre-Pagas) cover an
estimated three million people. Insurance plans vary widely in coverage,
pricing, and co-payment levels.
2.11  In 1993, expenditures incurred by private sector institutions accounted
for 41 percent of total health expenditures--including payment of voluntary
insurance premiums and out-of-pocket expenditures (28 percent of the total)--
and expenditures incurred through contracts with OSs. The growing
importance of the private sector and the potential for market failures in health
require an overhaul of the current regulatory framework.
2. An additional 1.5 percent is levied for the coverage of dependents.



C. Initiatives for Reform
2.12 In the past two years, legislation has been drafted and/or passed to
reform two critical areas of the sector. First, Executive Decree 578/93 of
1993 establishes the foundation for the reform of public hospitals. It
introduces the basis for the autonomous management of public hospitals and
establishes the legal framework for increased collection of fees, particularly
from OSs and private insurers. Substantial progress has been made in the
implementation of this initiative. As of March 1995, 18 of the country's 23
provinces and the Municipality of Buenos Aires (Municipalidad de Buenos
Aires-MCBA) have officially endorsed the decree and are therefore
authorized to initiate the transformation of public hospitals. Second, a law
was proposed in 1992 for an in-depth reform of the OS system that would
have broadened affiliation, improved regulation and, most importantly,
incorporated the indigent population through public sector funding. The
proposal was defeated in Congress, following strong opposition from the OSs
and unions. Executive Decree 9/93 of April 1993 restored a limited number
of the initiatives and, in effect, introduced competition by allowing limited
consumer choice in OS selection. As the debate on reform of the OSs
continues between the unions, the Ministry of Economy, Public and Social
Works (Ministerio de Economfa y Obras y Servicios Nblicos-MOE), and the
MSAS, none of the initiatives of Decree 9/93 have been implemented.
2.13 Although the legal basis for Autonomous Public Hospitals (Hospital
Piblico Autogestionado-HPA) has been established, its implementation
depends on the modernization of the traditional public hospital managerial
model and systems, training its key personnel to be able to assume more
challenging managerial responsibilities, designing its detailed contractual
relationships with the corresponding Provincial Ministry of Health (MSP)
and, more difficult, changing its organizational culture. Lack of actual
implementation of the HPA model since Executive Decree 578/93 of 1993
was passed has demonstrated that setting the appropriate legal environment is
a necessary condition but it is far from being a sufficient one.
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT POLICY
A. Issues
3.1   Health expenditures have experienced substantial increases in the last
few years. Both as a percentage of GDP spent on health (7.2 percent
according to Government estimates and almost 10 percent according to the



- 6 -
latest Bank estimates) and per capita outlay (US$400 at a minimum),
Argentina's expenditures are well above other middle-income countries with
better health status. Without action on reform, demographic dynamics
combined with severe inefficiencies are likely to further erode quality and
increase cost.
3.2   Demographic Dynamics. The aging population structure (in 1993,
almost 9 percent of the population was 65 years old or older) is determining
increasing demands on chronic non-transmissible diseases programs and
services. Since treatment of these diseases usually requires intensive use of
technology and other resources, medium- and high-complexity public
hospitals will experience a growing demand for high-cost services.
3.3   Allocation of Public Funds. Three factors have a negative impact on
the efficient allocation of public funds in the health sector. First, the
decentralization of sector delivery responsibilities to the provinces has
occurred with a high level of central financing of provincial expenditures and
a lack of incentive for provincial authorities to confront financial constraints.
Weak accountability at the provincial level undermines incentives for
jurisdictional expenditure efficiency. Second, the health care finance and
delivery system is complex, with extensive and non-transparent interactions
between the public sector, the insurance funds, and the private sector. The
intricate structure of the sector with its multiple stakeholders complicates
efforts for improvements in allocative efficiency. Third, the public sector
has traditionally played roles both in financing and services delivery, and
hospitals have been financed through historically-based budget transfers
without defining priorities based either on epidemiological or on intervention
cost-effectiveness criteria. Historically, most of the hospital budget is
executed by the respective MSP and only a marginal part of it is actually
known by hospital managers. Improvements in allocative efficiency could be
facilitated by introducing cost-effectiveness criteria in the definition of
priorities in resource allocation at the provincial level and through gradually
separating the financing and delivery functions at such level to avoid the
perverse incentive on the provincial level to continue financing a hospital
regardless the cost-effectiveness of its interventions.
3.4 Production Efficiency of Public Hospitals. Low internal efficiency
characterizes the public hospital network. Largely, this results from deficient
administrative and management practices and the deteriorated condition of
facilities. Modem management skills and systems are almost absent. Public
hospitals lack, inter alia, professional management in the areas of accounting
and financing, patient administration, pharmacy, materials and supplies, hotel
services, diagnostic procedures, infrastructure and equipment maintenance,
control of hospital infections, utilization review, and treatment of medical
waste. Additionally, public hospitals are financed based on historical budgets



- 7 -
with no reimbursement system associated with productivity or incentives for
efficiency improvements.
B. Government Sectoral Policy
3.5   The Government has linked the success of the adjustment program to
the rationalization of social spending. In the health sector, a number of
initiatives have been introduced to increase equity and efficiency. First, the
Government has taken few steps, albeit limited, to reform the health
insurance system. However, the Government has recently requested Bank
support for an in-depth reform of the Obras Sociales system (Health
Insurance Reform Project under preparation). Second, the operational and
financial decentralization of services to provinces and municipalities has been
practically completed, and the legal and financial base has been set for the
establishment of autonomous public hospitals. Third, new regulations have
opened the way for competition in the pharmaceutical market. Fourth, the
Government, with support from the Bank, is committed to matemal and child
health improvement. Fifth, reform of public hospitals and the rationalization
of health services in urban areas is considered a key priority. The
Govemment's commitment to reform in the health sector is hindered,
however, by the complexity and heterogeneity of the sector and its problems,
the overall lack of strong technical leadership, and the resistance to change
from politically powerful groups (i.e., unions and physicians). However,
strong commitment to change and technical capacity can be identified at the
level of individuals in the MSAS, provincial ministries, and hospitals.
Appropriately, the Govemment has embraced a strategic approach to health
sector reform that is gradual, participatory, and based on the implementation
of pilot and demonstration experiences.
4. ASSISTANCE STRATEGY FOR THE SECTOR
A. Bank's Role and Strategy
4.1   The Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board
on May. 4, 1995, strongly supports the Govemment's ambitious reform
program and focuses on: (a) consolidating reforms; (b) reducing poverty
and supporting human resource development; and (c) rebuilding the
deteriorated infrastructure base. In the social sectors, the Bank's assistance
to support targeted efforts on poverty is complemented by broader efforts to
improve the quality of human resource investments.



- 8 -
4.2   As a first stage of the Bank's assistance to poverty alleviation, the
ongoing Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (Ln. 3643-AR) is
targeting poor mothers and young children in the urban poverty belts and the
underdeveloped northern provinces. A follow-up operation would provide
similar support to other provinces. The Bank is also preparing a Social
Protection Project to assist in the implementation and coordination of
targeted efforts in poverty alleviation. In addition, a proposed Rural Poverty
Alleviation Project would address the needs of low-income small farmers in
depressed areas to improve productivity and income.
4.3   The targeted efforts on poverty would be complemented by the
broader objective of improving the quality of human resource investments.
In the health sector, two issues are critical in constraining sector efficiency:
inefficiency in delivering health services and inefficient sector financing
systems. The proposed project would help the Government in addressing the
inefficiencies in the public health delivery model and in improving the
managerial and financial incentives that determine the performance of public
hospitals. At the same time, a related Health Sector Financing Study and a
Health Insurance Reform Project, under preparation, would address these two
issues by supporting the reform of the inefficiently run social health
insurance system. While the proposed project would address reform through
gradual and attainable changes in the delivery and contracting of services and
in the regulation of private health insurance, the Health Sector Financing
Study and the Health Insurance Reform Project would set the stage for
politically sensitive reform of the Obras Sociales system. The proposed
project underpins a Government priority, complements the objectives of other
Bank-financed projects and sector work, and as a consequence is fully
consistent with the Bank's CAS for Argentina.
B. The Bank's Experience and Lessons Learned
4.4   The project design builds on the experience of relevant operations
financed by the World Bank Group over the past decade. Lessons learned
from these projects indicate that successful implementation is closely
associated with: (a) linking the definition of project objectives and scope to a
clear policy framework; (b) obtaining strong and pervasive government
commitment; (c) designing simple projects with focused and modest
objectives; (d) linking financing of critical investments to the implementation
of policy and/or institutional reform; and (e) conducting intensive technical
supervision by the Bank.
4.5   Past experience has shown that loans with large technical assistance
(TA) and study components can achieve programmatic change more
effectively when project design is linked to a well-defined policy



- 9 -
framework. It is necessary to link carefully TA activities to specific
actions to be taken to implement the results and recommendations of such
TA. This is particularly relevant in cases in which reform components are
politically sensitive. The objectives of the proposed project underpin the
Government's 1993 policy framework which is supported by legislation.
Executive Decree 578/93 of 1993 provides the foundation for the reform of
public hospitals (see also para. 2.12). It introduces the alternative of
autonomous management of public hospitals and establishes the legal basis
for increased collection of fees, particularly from OSs and private insurers.
As part of project preparation, the Government prepared a comprehensive
study (Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud--PRESSAL, Documento No.1)
which analyzes the sector, defines the government's sector strategy, and lists
key legislation affecting reform in the sector.
4.6   Previous projects note the importance of keeping project design
simple but relevant. Given the limited institutional capacity of sector
agencies, their lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, and the complexity
of the health sector, clarity and simplicity in project design are paramount.
Moreover, project administration mechanisms (i.e., planning, programming,
budgeting, procurement, and disbursement) must be transparent and
functional. Project preparation has given particular attention to sharpening
the focus of project objectives, specifying the scope of components, and
refining the contents and timetable of implementation arrangements.
However, in particular in middle-income countries, special attention should
be paid to ensure that simplicity is consistent with the need to address the
most relevant sector issues, which are usually exceedingly complex in the
area of health sector reform.
4.7   Political commitment is a critical ingredient in project
implementation performance. Commitment is particularly significant in the
case of reforms in the health sector where powerful interest groups can easily
derail the process. During project preparation, special attention was given to
ensure the support of key stakeholders, particularly of the provincial
governments (and the MCBA), the MOE, and professional associations. In
this respect, the project preparation team consisted of representatives from
the national and jurisdictional level and the MOE. Moreover, during
appraisal, the Buenos Aires Medical Association, representing about 40
percent of all the Argentine physicians, endorsed the proposed project. To
ensure sustainability and project ownership, it is also important that
implementation arrangements be transparent and flexible and strike a fair and
manageable balance between the definition of a clear and implementable set
of objectives and the possibility of adapting project activities and
implementation arrangements to changing political and institutional
environments.



- 10-
4.8  In general, Bank projects across diverse sectors in Argentina have
revealed that project execution has been affected by low government salaries,
institutional deficiencies, and a scarcity of well-trained and full-time
entrepreneurial staff. While strengthening existing agencies is the preferred
option, the lack of a sound legal and administrative framework constrains the
management autonomy and flexibility of these agencies. In this scenario it is
critical that the project implementation unit be vested with ample authority
and political support and has adequate capacity to guide the implementation
and supervise project activities. Preparation efforts have been heavily
focused on seeking early agreement on the creation, composition, and
responsibilities of the national and provincial project implementation units.
A MSAS resolution of September 1994 created the project preparation unit,
i.e., Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto de Reforna del Sector Salud.
The capacity of the national project unit to carry out implementation has been
tested during preparation.
5. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Concept
5.1   The proposed project addresses the Government's sectoral policy goal
to rationalize sector spending by strengthening policy-making and improving
efficiency in service delivery. To this end, the proposed project takes a two-
pronged approach. First, it would strengthen policy-making capacity of the
MSAS and the MPSs and assist the Government in the implementation of
specific changes in the incentives environment for public hospitals. Second,
it would improve the capacity to deliver services by pilot testing
implementation of HPAs through different alternatives of managerial models
for the transformation of public hospitals into HPAs .
5.2   To achieve these goals, the proposed project would carry out: (a) a
limited number of operationally-oriented studies and system designs to be
implemented during the second half of the project (Component I ); (b) the
pilot implementation of HPA in the Province of Buenos Aires (Provincia de
Buenos Aires-PBA), MCBA, and the (Provincia de Mendoza-POM) Province
of Mendoza (Component II); (c) the nationwide dissemination of reform
initiatives emerging from Components I and II; and (d) training of a critical
mass of health sector professionals in health administration to take over the
key roles in the new HPA (Component III).



-11-
5.3   Based on the Health Sector Strategy presented to the Bank in the
Policy Letter, the findings and recommendations of the studies of Component
I, and the experience gained in the implementation of the first phase of
Component II, the Government would prepare an action plan for each eligible
jurisdiction and the MSAS, to be approved by the Bank during Mid-Term
Review and to be implemented by each eligible jurisdiction during the second
half of project implementation. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government that an action plan would be prepared and
submitted to the Bank no later than December 31, 1997, and its
implementation finalized no later than nine months before the completion
date. The Bank and the Government will participate, no later than April 30,
1998, to analyze and discuss the Action Plan submitted to the Bank. During
Mid-Term Review, the Government will present to the Bank the final version
of the Action Plan, incorporating Bank comments resulting from the joint
review held in April 30, 1998. The action plan for each eligible jurisdiction
should contain, at a minimum: (a) a proposal to legally and administratively
transform one eligible public hospital, within the respective eligible province,
into an HPA; and (b) actions to implement the appropriate recommendations
of each of the studies carried out under Component I in the respective
eligible province. Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in carrying out the
corresponding activities within the Action Plan would be a condition of
disbursement for investment expenditures in the last three hospitals in each
eligible province.
5.4   The Greater Buenos Aires Metropolitan Area (Gran Buenos Aires-
GBA) has a population of about 11 million, about one-third of Argentina's
population. It consists of the MCBA, with 3 million inhabitants, and the
peri-urban area (Conurbano), divided into 19 counties belonging to the PBA
with a population of 8 million. MCBA's population has seen little overall
variation since the 1950s, while growth in the Conurbano has been rapid.
The city's demographic and epidemiological profile is similar to that of a
developed country and is in stark contrast with the peri-urban area with its
large concentration of migrant population and a profile which mirrors that of
a pre-transition developing country. Poverty levels and access to services
worsen as distance from the capital increases. The public sector owns and
manages about 17 percent of the 492 hospitals and 50 percent of the 37,000
hospital beds in the metropolitan area; hospital capacity is more concentrated
in the city, where national referral specialized hospitals are located--only 40
percent of the city's hospital discharges are MCBA residents. The Province
of Mendoza (POM) has a population of 1.4 million and slightly better health
indicators than the national average. In the past five years, POM has been a
pioneer in designing and implementing reforms in the health sector.



- 12-
B. Detailed Project Description
Summary Description of Components
5.5   The proposed project would consist of the following three components
and related activities:
Component I: Formulation of Policy for Reform (6 percent of total project
cost) would help establish the basis and provide critical tools to further sector
reform. The studies are designed to help fulfill the following objectives:
(a)   improve the sector's allocative efficiency through: (i) helping define
health priorities in the country through a Burden of Disease Study
(Health Service Priorities Study); and (ii) defining priority health
care/preventive interventions through the identification of those
interventions with the best cost-effectiveness for the country;
(b)   improve the sector's productive efficiency by creating the right
incentives for the performance of public hospitals through adequate
public hospital reimbursement systems from the jurisdictional
ministries of health for services provided to indigent patients.
(c)   improve the targeting of public subsidies through designing and
implementing an identification system to differentiate those patients
considered indigent (and, therefore, to be financed by state subsidies)
from those covered by Obras Sociales and/or private insurance
schemes that should reimburse public hospitals for the services
provided; and,
(d)  compensate for market failures in health insurance and service
delivery through design and implementation of a regulatory
framework for private insurance and for minimum quality
requirements for private provision of services.
Component U: Pilot Implementation of Autonomous Hospitals (89 percent
of total project costs) would help transform the organization and management
of up to 15 hospitals (five in MCBA, five in Conurbano and five in POM) to
improve the internal efficiency and guide their transformation into HPAs.
The estimated number of eligible hospitals to be included in the project
responds to: (i) the preliminary identification of those hospitals that would
be eligible under the defined eligibility criteria; (ii) the minimum number
considered to be effective to get the desired demonstration effect in
Argentina; and (iii) the minimum number to ensure the test of alternative



- 13-
managerial models in each eligible province before deciding which of them
could be replicated nationwide. To this end, the project would support the
following activities in the eligible pilot hospitals: (a) institutional
development with a focus on organization and management (O&M)
improvements; (b) implementation of a hospital management information
system (MIS); and (c) solving important bottlenecks for efficiency
improvements through physical plant and equipment investments, conditioned
to measurable improvements in organization and management.
Component m: Dissemination of Reform Initiatives (5 percent of total
project cost) would contribute to disseminate nationwide the findings and
experiences of the first two components and to help strengthen the technical
and management capacity of sector professionals. To this end, the proposed
project would support training and workshops and a limited number of
national and international scholarships in the areas of hospital management,
public health, and health economics.
Detailed Description of Components
Component I: Formulation of Policy for Reform
5.6   Under this component, the proposed project would finance a limited
number of studies and system designs to significantly improve the incentive
environment in which public hospitals operate within eligible provinces. The
aim of the studies is to develop action-oriented recommendations and designs
in key areas of intervention to be implemented during the second half of
project implementation. These areas were identified on the basis of the
Government's priorities for action, their technical relevance to further
reform, and their implementation feasibility.
5.7   The studies would include: (a) upgrading the national information
system on sector resources, epidemiological information and productivity of
service delivery; (b) defining priority health services to be financed by
government subsidies; (c) designing and pilot testing a strategy to separate
the financing from the service delivery functions of the public sector at the
provincial level; (d) designing and pilot testing a public hospital
reimbursement system; (e) designing a strategy to reform provincial OSs to
improve their sustainability and managerial efficiency; (f) designing and
implementing, among eligible hospitals, a system to identify beneficiaries
under the various insurance schemes; (g) designing a regulatory framework
for private health insurance and health care providers; and (h) reviewing the
relevant legislation and institutional framework to improve the regulatory
framework for hospital waste disposal. A brief description of these studies is
included in Annex B. An additional set of studies would focus on developing



- 14 -
investment and project proposals (e.g., AIDS control, nationwide expansion
of the HPA initiative, Study of Project Impact) for which Bank financing is
likely to be requested in the short- and medium-term. Draft terms of
reference for these studies have been prepared. Final terms of reference
(TOR) would be submitted to the Bank for no objection prior to preparation
of a letter of invitation to consultants. Additionally, in order to assure
participation of provinces in the design, before its approval by the UEC, all
study reports under components I and II will be analyzed by the UEC
together with representatives of the Minister of Health of each eligible
province. Under this component, the proposed project would finance
consulting services.
Component II: Pilot Implementation of Autonomous Hospitals
5.8   Under this component, the proposed project would establish the basis
for a broad reform of public hospitals. To this end, it would support pilot
implementation of HPAs in three eligible jurisdictions already identified
(MCBA, Conurbano and POM), where a new organizational and
management model would be implemented. The HPA model is based on the
separation of the health financing and health delivery functions of the public
sector. The proposal is to gradually develop a purchasing agency role for
provincial ministries of health and transform public hospitals into self-
goverming trusts. HPA hospitals would have autonomy in the management of
all resources and would establish contractual arrangements with public and
private purchasing agencies. The proposed project would support the process
by introducing most needed organizational, management, and financial tools
into hospitals and by pilot testing the HPA model during the second half of
project implementation. Without the introduction of basic hospital
management techniques and development of administration capacity, public
hospitals are unlikely to succeed in their transformation into HPAs.
5.9   The institutional development intervention of hospitals would be
carried out through Organization and Management consultant firms (O&M)
which would concentrate their efforts in the following areas: (a) general
organization and management; (b) accounting and finance; (c) patient
administration; (d) pharmacy materials and supplies; (e) hotel services;
(f) diagnostic procedures; (g) infrastructure and equipment maintenance;
(h) control of hospital infections; (i) medical auditing; and (j) management of
medical waste. To facilitate the implementation of the results of institutional
development activities, the project would also finance the development and
implementation of a hospital MIS. With respect to the design and
coordination of O&M and MIS activities, it has been agreed that: (a) the
Govemment will prepare design and implementation guidelines for MIS
containing the minimal technical requirements for the design and
implementation of MIS, to be used for all MIS activities under the project



- 15-
(b) firms executing O&M and MIS will be different, to avoid a poor
implementation of organizational and management activities as a result of
overdesign of the MIS; (c) the O&M firm will prepare TOR for the MIS
within six month of starting its activities; (d) a high-level consultant team,
hired by the UEC, will be responsible for overseeing the O&M and the MIS
firms and ensure their coordination; (e) in order to guarantee the
compatibility of MIS design in each jurisdiction, the MIS system will be
procured in large packages (preferably two or more hospitals at a time in
each jurisdiction); and (f) the TOR for the MIS implementation will be
designed in accordance with the Implementation Guidelines referred to in (a)
above and will specify that the technology to be used should be based on the
available and proven state of the art technology. Final TOR would be
submitted to the Bank for no objection prior to preparation of a letter of
invitation to consultants. A description of each task is included in Annex C
(Institutional Development--Key Areas of Intervention). Condition of
disbursement for MIS will be that the Government has prepared and
submitted to the Bank the Implementation Guidelines for MIS.
5.10 To support and complement the institutional development activities,
the component would support investment in hospital physical plant and
equipment to: (a) solve bottlenecks to increase productivity; (b) reduce the
risk for patients and/or hospital staff; and (c) increase productive efficiency.
Investments would be limited to rehabilitation of existing infrastructure (up to
US$4.2 million per hospital, including physical and price contingencies) and
replacement of basic equipment (up to US$2.1 million per hospital, including
physical and price contingencies). Eligibility criteria for works and
equipment have been defined. These criteria have been reviewed and
included in the project's Implementation Manual.
5.11  Investments will be carried out in two phases. Hospitals would be
eligible for financing under the first phase following preparation of a
satisfactory investment plan. The investment plan should be a comprehensive
five-year plan and establish the impact, if any, on recurrent costs. The
investment plan should also contain detailed plans and technical specifications
for all civil works and equipment to be financed under the project (both
under the first and second phases). Investment project financing per hospital
under the first phase could not exceed 40 percent of total investment cost (in
goods and civil works) defined for the respective hospital. The remaining
investment financing would be used during the second phase. Eligibility
requirements for financing under the second phase relate to progress in the
implementation of institutional development activities and will include at a
minimum: (a) availability of detailed information on cost per cost center;
(b) availability of information on payroll and staffing arrangements; and
(c) fully implemented new organizational structure of the hospital, as
recommended by the result of the activities to be carried out under
Institutional Strengthening (Component II). For this purpose, each eligible



- 16-
jurisdiction would submit to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU--UEC) for
the hospital for which the no objection to initiate the implementation of
eligible sub-project II is being requested: (1) a report identifying the cost of
final services (using an acceptable and sound cost allocation methodology) for
each cost center of the respective hospital, verifying that such cost report is
the result of a cost system implemented in the respective hospital; (2) a
report informing on the new defined organizational structure (result of the
Organization and Management activities under Part B. 1. of the project) of the
respective hospital and verifying that such structure has been adopted by the
respective hospital; and (3) a report identifying detail information on
personnel and payroll of the respective hospital, verifying that such report is
the result of a personnel and payroll system implemented in the respective
hospital. Once the UEC finds them acceptable, they would be submitted to
the Bank as part of the support documentation for the no objection request to
initiate actions to implement eligible sub-project II in the respective hospital.
During appraisal, the Bank received a copy of the Investment Plan for the
first hospital in each eligible jurisdiction. The plans will be reviewed by the
UEC and, if considered within the eligibility criteria, will be submitted to the
Bank for no objection.
5.12 During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that the maximum amount allocated to civil works and equipment per hospital
would not exceed US$6.3 million per hospital, and that the first phase of
investments would not exceed 40% of the actual investment resources
assigned to the respective hospital. Considering the criticalnature of strong
leadership is in the implementation of reform in each eligible hospital, it will
be a condition of disbursement for each eligible hospital that the
respective hospital director has experience and qualifications acceptable to the
MSAS, through the UEC. Additional conditions of disbursement for
expenditures on civil works and equipment in each hospital are: (a) for the
first phase (up to 40% of the assigned investment resources), the completion
of a satisfactory investment plan and the signing of an Infrastructure
Arrangement I between each eligible hospital and its respective MSP; and
(b) for the remaining balance, progress in the implementation of pre-defined
critical actions of institutional development (para. 5. 11) and the signing of an
Infrastructure Arrangement II between each eligible hospital and its
respective MSP. Additionally, a condition of disbursement for the second
phase of investments under Component II (civil works and equipment, other
than MIS) for the last three hospitals in each eligible jurisdiction would be
evidence of satisfactory advances in the implementation of the action plan
referred to in para. 5.3, for the respective jurisdiction.
5.13 The implementation of the pilot experiences would be carried out
during the first three years of implementation. It is expected that, by the end
of the third year, all 15 hospitals would have initiated institutional
development activities.



- 17-
5.14 Under this component, the project would finance civil works,
equipment, and consulting services.
Component HI: Dissemination of Reform Initiatives
5.15 Under this component, the proposed project would support
dissemination of the findings and experiences of the first two components
nationwide and would help strengthen technical and management capacity of
sector professionals. To this end, the project would support: (a) technical
assistance, training, and workshops aimed at: (i) increasing the awareness
and knowledge of the activities to reform the health sector, and
(ii) disseminating the findings and lessons learned from the other two
components of the project to provinces with no participation in Component
II; and (b) a limited number (20) of international scholarships in the areas of
hospital management, public health, and health economics.
5.16 Funding for technical assistance, training and workshops would be
directed, primarily, to staff of provincial ministries and hospitals. An
agreement would be signed between the MSAS and the entity requesting
support. A model of the assistance agreement has been prepared and is
included in the Implementation Manual. Proposals would be reviewed by the
UEC prior to its submission for review by the Bank.
5.17 Under this component, the project would support improvements in the
sector's human resource base through about 20 international scholarships in
three areas: (a) public health/epidemiology, (b) hospital management, and
(c) health economics. The criteria to be met by the eligible professionals and
the minimum terms and conditions of the scholarships to be granted have
been presented to the Bank during appraisal and are included in the project's
Implementation Manual. Final selection of candidates will be done by an
independent committee or institution, satisfactory to the Bank.
6. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
6.1   The total project cost is estimated at US$144.7 million equivalent,
including taxes (US$23.7 million equivalent) and physical and price
contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$82.21
million, or about 57 percent of total project cost. Project costs by
component are summarized in Table 6.1. A detailed cost table are provided
in Annex D.



-18-
Table 6.1: Project Cost Summary By Component
Local   Foreign   Total   % Foreign   % of Total
[  -     US$ million -  Exchange   Base Cons
1.  Formulation of Policy for Reform  2.86  4.66    7.52      62.00       6.00
II.  Pilot Implementation of      50.90     64.85  115.75     56.00      89.00
Autonomous Hospitals
m.   Dissemination of Reform Initiatives    2.16  4.06    6.22  65.00      5.00
Total Base Costs                  55.92     73.59  129.50      57.00     100.00
Physical Contingencies        3.42     4.45    7.88      57.00       6.00
Price Contingencies          3.15      4.17    7.32      57.00       6.00
Toutl Poject Cost                 62.49     82.21  144.70      57.00     112.00
6.2    Contingency Allowances. The total project cost includes
contingencies of US$15.2 million equivalent (12 percent of base costs).
Physical contingencies of US$7.88 million equivalent (6 percent) are for civil
works, medical equipment, and computers and technology equipment. Price
contingencies (US$7.32 million equivalent), representing 6 percent of base
costs, reflect projected price increases for foreign cost, estimated in US$ at
1.8 percent (1996), 2.6 percent (1997), 2.5 percent (1998), 2.5 percent
(1999), and 2.4 percent (2000), as well as projected Bank estimates on local
inflation.
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability
6.3    The proposed project would entail minimal incremental recurrent
costs. Administrative costs related to management of the national and
jurisdictional implementation units, UEC and UEPs (e.g., secretarial support,
rent and utilities, and maintenance of office equipment and office supplies)
represent less than five percent of total project costs and will be funded by
the Government. Personnel costs are not recurrent, since the UEC and UEPs
will be composed of consultants under short- or medium-term contracts and
these units are expected to be dismantled at the end of implementation.
Project sustainability, however, is more heavily dependent on political will
and the technical ability to incorporate the findings and recommendations of
the studies (Component I) and the lessons learned from the pilot experiences
(Component II) into broader sector reform efforts.



- 19-
C. Financing Plan
6.4 The proposed loan of US$101.4 million would finance 70 percent of
total project cost. It would cover US$70.9 million or 98 percent of foreign
exchange expenditures and US$30.1 million or 63 percent of estimated local
expenditures. The Government would finance US$43.3 million equivalent or
30 percent of total project cost. Table 6.2 summarizes the project's
financing plan. Annex D, Table 2 incorporates the financing plan by year.
The Government's estimated yearly counterpart funding requirements (both
national and provincial) have been estimated at: US$5.9 million, US$13.4
million, US$14.6 million, US$10.0 million, and US$6.3 million. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that annual
amounts of counterpart funding would be made available for each of the five
years of project implementation.
Table 6.2: Financing Plan
US$ Million           Percentage
Government                    43.3                  30.0
IBRD                          101.4                 70.0
Total                        144.7                 100.0
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Preparation
7.1 Project preparation was financed by the Borrower and by an advance
from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1,150,000 dated July 22,
1994 and amended on May 19, 1995. The Government initiated preparation
activities in June 1994, when a project preparation unit was established.
B. Project Management and Coordination
7.2 The MSAS would be responsible for project implementation. An
MSAS resolution of September 1994 created the project preparation unit,
i.e., Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud.
Project execution responsibilities would be vested with a national project
implementation unit, i.e. Unidad Ejecutiva Central del Proyecto de
Desarrollo del Sector Salud (UEC). In addition, PBA, MCBA and POM



-20-
would create jurisdictional implementation units, i.e., Unidades Ejecutoras
Provinciales (UEPs), to assist in the implementation of Component II. The
UEC's mandate would include: (a) carrying out the implementation of
Component I, the institutional development activities under Component II,
and Component III; (b) providing technical and administrative support to the
UEPs in carrying out Component II; (c) coordinating with and overseeing all
relevant entities at the national and jurisdictional levels involved in
implementation; (d) monitoring and evaluating project activities; and
(e) reporting to the Bank. The UEPs' mandate focuses on the upgrading of
physical plant and equipment under Component II, with the administrative
and technical support of the UEC.
7.3   The proceeds of the loan allocated for upgrading of hospital physical
plant and equipment under Component II would be on-lent from the national
government (MOE) to the governments of the three participating jurisdictions
(i.e., PBA, MCBA, and POM). These governments would have the
obligation to repay the proceeds of the loan to the MOE under the same
terms and conditions as the Bank Loan. To this effect, a subsidiary loan
agreement (SLA--Convenio de Ejecuci6n y Subsidiario del Prestamo Naci6n-
Jurisdicci6n--CES) would be signed between the MOE, the MSAS and each
of the three participating jurisdictions. These subsidiary loan agreements will
include, inter alia, a description of the jurisdiction's financial and project
obligations (including detailed provincial counterpart fund per year of
implementation), provisions for withdrawals, conditionalities, remedies and
bearing of the foreign exchange risk. A first draft of the subsidiary loan
agreement has been prepared and presented to the Bank and has been
reviewed. For each participating jurisdiction, a condition of disbursement
of proceeds for Component II would be that the respective subsidiary loan
agreement (SLA) would have been signed between the National Government
(represented by the MOE and the MSAS) and the jurisdiction and counsel for
the Borrower and the corresponding eligible province has furnished to the
Bank an opinion stating that the respective SLA has been executed by the
Borrower and the province. The three jurisdictions have expressed their
commitment to the project and their willingness to participate in the project
and have signed a Commitment Letter (Carta de Adhesi6n) between the
National Government (MSAS) and each of the three jurisdictions confirming
the interest of the three jurisdictions to participate in the project. Other
provinces could be eligible for financing under Component II to replace any
of the three eligible jurisdictions in case of not compliance with the SLA.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
non compliance with the SLA would be sufficient cause for suspension of
disbursements in any of the three participating jurisdictions.
7.4   The UEC will, at a maximum, consist of 16 higher-level and 5
support staff. It will be organized around three management sub-units and it
would be headed by a coordinator and a deputy coordinator. Two of those



- 21-
sub-units will play a technical role in project implementation. The third sub-
unit will be responsible for the project's financial management, including,
inter alia, the submission of disbursement applications to the Bank and
procurement and contractual activities. An organizational chart of the UEC
and UEP are included in Annex E. Each of the three UEPs will consist of
up to four higher level staff (including a coordinator) and one support staff.
The UEC coordinator and the UEPs coordinators will be appointed by the
Minister of the MSAS and the Ministers from each eligible jurisdiction,
respectively. A condition of loan effectiveness is that the UEC has been
created and is adequately staffed, and the coordinator, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been appointed. For each eligible jurisdiction in which
Component II would be implemented, conditions of disbursement for
Component II are that: (a) the UEP is created and adequately staffed and
that the coordinator, satisfactory to the Bank, has been appointed; and (b)
hospital directors in each eligible hospital under Component II should have
technical and managerial experience and qualifications, satisfactory to the
Bank.
7.5   Considering the transient nature of the UEC and UEPs, during
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that no later
than the Mid-Term Review of the project, the Government would present to
the Bank a plan to transfer UEC and UEPs responsibilities and activities to
the national and jurisdictional line ministries and/or gradually reduce their
staff, whichever is appropriate, during the second half of project
implementation.
7.6   During preparation, the UEC prepared three basic documents to guide
implementation, which together constitute the project's implementation
manual: (a) a project proposal (Documentos del Proyecto PRESSAL, quinta
versi6n) that includes: (i) the overall rationale for and description of the
project, (ii) a description of all activities to be carried out in each of the
project's components, (iii) draft terms of reference for consulting services,
and (iv) costs; (b) an Operational Manual (Manual de Operaciones del
PRESSAL, marzo de 1995) that summarizes the project's activities and details
implementation procedures including, inter alia: (i) disbursement and
auditing procedures, (ii) procedures for the transfer of loan proceeds to the
jurisdictions, (iii) procurement procedures, (iv) the UEC and UEPs
organizational charts and terms of reference, (v) eligibility criteria for
hospitals to be incorporated into the pilot program under Component II;
(vi) eligibility criteria for access to funds allocated to works and equipment
under Component II, and (vii) the criteria to be met by the eligible
professionals and the minimum terms and conditions of the scholarships to be
granted under Component III; and (c) a jurisdictional implementation manual
(Instructivo de Ejecuci6n del Proyecto, marzo de 1995) based on the general
Implementation Manual adapted to the specific day-to-day needs of the UEPs
for the implementation of investments under Component II of the project.



-22 -
These documents were reviewed during appraisal. A condition of loan
effectiveness is that the Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, be
approved by the MSAS. A condition of disbursement for Component II in
each jurisdiction will be that the corresponding parts of the Implementation
Manual should be duly approved by the respective eligible province.
C. Implementation Schedule
7.7   The proposed project would be implemented over five years (i.e.,
mid-CY95 through mid-CY2000). Phasing of the various project activities is
summarized in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) included in Annex F.
During negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed on the final
version of the project Implementation Manual. Prior to negotiations, the
Government completed the final version of the Implementation Manual.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would
carry out the project in accordance with the Implementation Manual and
within the parameters of the implementation arrangements.
D. Procurement
7.8   The proposed project will finance procurement of civil works, goods
and consultant services. Procurement for civil works and goods, subject to
Bank financing, will be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines
(January 1995). Procurement for consultant services will be carried out in
acordance with Bank guidelines (August 1981). Condition of disbursement in
each eligible province will be that the respective province has taken all
actions, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to permit such eligible province to
carry out the procurement of goods and works to be financed under the loan,
in accordance with Bank procedures. Procurement activities will be carried
out by the UEC (for Components I, II--except works and goods--and III) and
the three UEPs (for works and goods under Component II).
7.9   The Government informed the Bank about its intention to amend the
existing agreement (cost-sharing agreement) with the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) office in Buenos Aires to assist the
Government with procurement arrangements for consultant services of the
proposed project. The Government submitted to the Bank, for its review, a
draft contract of the proposed agreement. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the Government that a plan for the organization of
procurement arrangements to be carried out during the second half of project
implementation would be developed. A condition of effectiveness will be
that the MSAS-UNDP has been duly amended to allow for UNDP to support
the MSAS in the management of all consultant services to be financed under
the project.



-23 -
7.10 Arrangements for procurement and limits by type are summarized in
Table 7.1. The procurement review procedures are summarized in Table
7.2. Standard bidding documents for civil works and goods for both NCB
and ICB have been reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank. Standard
documents, acceptable to the Bank, for two-step ICB procedures would be
used in the procurement of information systems (equipment and software). A
condition of effectiveness will be that all action, satisfactory to the Bank,
has been taken by the Goverment in order to permit procurement of goods
and services to be financed by the Bank Loan in acordance with Bank
procedures.
Table 7.1 Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Procurement Element            ICB      NCB      Other   Total Cost
1. Civil Works                                 59.8     3.2'       63.0
(41.9)    (2.2)     (44.1)
2. Goods
Computer Hardware and             12.0                           12.0
Software                         (8.4)                         (8.4)
Vehicles                                             0.51        0.5
(0.4)      (0.4)
Office Equipment and Furniture                       0.1 F       0.1
(0.1)      (0.1)
Medical Equipment                  7.0      10.2    11m4e'      28.6
(4.9)    (7.1)    (8.0)      (20.0)
3. Consulting Services and                              39.3d      39.3
Training                                        (27.3)     (27.3)
4. PPF Refinancing                                      1.15        1.15i
______  ______  ~(1.2)    (1.2)
TOTAL                             19.0      70.0     55.7       144.7
(13.3)   (49.0)   (39.2)    (101.4)
a/     Includes lump-sum fixed contracts on the basis of comparisons of at least three price proposal.
b/     Includes Local and International Shopping (up to USS 1.4 million equivalent) and LIB for eligible
medical equipment (up to USS 10.0 million equivalent).
c/      Consulting Services
Note: ICB - International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
LIB = Limited International Bidding
Numbers in parentheses reflect Bank financing.



-24-
Table 7.2 Summary of Procurement Review Procedures
CATEGORY                  PROCEDURE   PRIOR BANK REVIEW
1. Civil Works
Contracts for US$3.0 million or more   ICB             All
Contracts for less than US$3.0 million but  NCB        First project contract
more than US$300,000                                  per jurisdiction and all
contracts to cost more
than US$600,000.
Contracts for US$300,000 or less       Comparison of   None
Three price
proposals
2. Goods
Contracts for US$300,000 or more      ICB              All
Contracts for medical equipment which  LIB             All
the Bank agrees can only be purchased
from a few international suppliers,
valued at more than US$100,000
Contracts for less than US$300,000 but  NCB            First project contract
more than US$100,000                                  per jurisdiction and all
NCB contracts to cost
more than US$200,000.
Contracts for US$100,000 or less       Shopping        None
3. Consulting Services
Contracts with firms for US$100,000 or                 All
above
Contracts with individuals (new or                     All
renewals) that would determine a total of
US$35,000 or more for the specific
consultant during a calendar year.
Contracts for UEC and UEP personnel                    All



-25 -
Civil Works
7.11  Civil works will involve the rehabilitation of 15 hospitals at a cost of
about US$63.0 million. The upgrading cost per individual hospital should
not exceed US$4.2 million (including physical and price contingencies).
Hospitals would prepare an investment plan identifying priority self-contained
investment projects to be financed by the project. Such priority investments
should fulfill the eligibility criteria defined in the Implementation Manual.
Procurement of works for each hospital will be carried out in two phases.
The first phase would finance priority projects up to 40 percent of the total
available funds for investments. The second phase would be conditioned on
the completion of the first phase and the implementation of institutional
development activities (see para. 5.11).
7.12 Individual packages for civil works in each hospital are expected not
to exceed US$3.0 million equivalent. This would be unlikely to attract
foreign contractors, and would therefore not justify their procurement
through ICB. Contracts for works expected to cost more than US$300,000
equivalent but less than US$3.0 million equivalent, with an aggregate amount
of US$59.8 million equivalent, or about 40 percent of the total project cost,
would be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
NCB for works would be carried out using standard bidding documents
satisfactory to the Bank. Lump-sum fixed-price contracts would be used for
works with small value (US$300,000 equivalent or less) up to an aggregate
amount of US$3.2 million equivalent. These would be awarded, through
comparison of three price proposals, to the lowest price responsive proposal
meeting the specifications, time completion, and contract conditions.
Goods
7.13 Goods will include computer hardware and software, vehicles, office
equipment and furniture, and medical equipment, and are expected to total
about US$31.0 million equivalent. To the extent possible, contracts for
goods will be combined into packages of US$300,000 equivalent or more --
totalling about US$19.0 million equivalent-- and would be awarded on the
basis of ICB procedures. Eligible medical equipment (medical equipment
which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a few international
suppliers) financed by the Bank valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent,
up to a total of US$10.0 million equivalent, will be awarded on the basis of
LIB procedures. Other goods financed by the Bank valued more than
US$100,000 but less than US$300,000, up to a total of US$10.2 million
equivalent, will be awarded based on NCB procedures. ICB will require the
use of Bank-issued standard bidding documents (SBD), and NCB would also
be carried out using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Shopping (international and local) would be used for contracts of



-26-
US$100,000 or less up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million equivalent.
Computer hardware and software may be procured on the basis of ICB under
a two-stage procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
Consulting Services
7.14 Preparation of studies, technical assistance, and project coordination
will be carried out by national and foreign consultants, contracted in
accordance with Guidelines on the Use of Consultants hy World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, consultants would be employed
under contracts using a model letter of invitation and the standard form of
contract for consultant services issued by the World Bank in May 1993. The
total allocation for consulting services is estimated at about US$39.3 million
equivalent.
Review of Procurement
7.15  Prior review by the Bank will be carried out for all contracts for civil
works and goods to be procured under ICB and LIB. Prior review will also
be required for: (a) all civil works contracts of more than US$600,000
equivalent; (b) the first contract for civil works under NCB in each of the
three jurisdictions; (c) the first contract for goods under NCB in each of the
three jurisdictions; and (d) contracts for goods under NCB above
US$200,000. It is estimated that during the life of the project about 65
contracts, representing about 70 percent of the total value of contracts, will
require prior Bank review, which is considered satisfactory. The Bank will
review ex-post, on a selective basis, contracts and bid evaluation for civil
works and goods awarded under NCB and shopping not subject to prior
review by the Bank.
7.16 The Bank will review all documentation for consulting services
included in the project. Bank prior review will be required for: (a) all
contracts for consulting firms of US$100,000 equivalent or above; (b) all
contracts with individuals (new or renewals) costing US$35,000 equivalent or
above in aggregate during the calendar year; and (c) all contracts involving
UEC and UEP personnel. For consultant contracts with firms that cost less
than US$100,000 equivalent, and up to US$10.0 million equivalent, and for
individuals that cost less than US$35,000 equivalent and up to US$5.0
million equivalent in the aggregate, prior review by the Bank will cover only
the corresponding terms of reference and the short list before contracting.
This exception would not apply to: (a) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (b) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the



-27-
Bank; (c) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to US$100,000 equivalent or above; or
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to US$35,000 equivalent or above. During
appraisal, the Government submitted to the Bank a detailed format of terms
of reference and c.v. contents for review and approval, to be included in the
Implementation Manual. The Government and the Bank have agreed that
prior review limits will be evaluated during the yearly reviews and could be
modified, if appropriate. The Bank will conduct a selective ex-post review
of support contract documents during supervision. All standard bidding
documents, satisfactory to the Bank, will be included in the Implementation
Manual.
E. Disbursements and Accounts
7.17 The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed in
accordance with the schedule shown in Annex H, Table 1 over a period of
five years. The disbursement period was determined on the basis of the
profile of other Bank projects with an emphasis on technical assistance. The
project completion date would be December 31, 2000 and the project closing
date would be June 30, 2001.
7.18 Annex I, Table 2 contains disbursement allocations. Disbursements
will be made against the following categories of expenditures: (a) 70 percent
of expenditures for civil works; (b) 70 percent of expenditures for goods; and
(c) 70 percent of expenditures for consulting services and training.
Administrative and operational costs would be financed by the Government.
7.19 Withdrawal applications for civil works with a contract value of more
than US$600,000 for goods (excluding eligible medical equipment referred to
in paragraph 7.13 above), with a contract value of US$300,000 or more,
eligible medical equipment (see para. 7.13) with a contract value of more
than US$100,000, services with ja contract value of US$100,000 or more and
US$35,000 or more for the employment of consulting firms and individual
consultants, respectively, will be supported by full documentation. Full
documentation will also be required for: (a) the first project contract per
jurisdiction and all contracts above US$600,000 for civil works; and
(b) the first project contract per jurisdiction and all NCB contracts of more
than US$200,000 for goods. Disbursements will be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) against expenditures for contracts:
(a) US$600,000 or less for civil works (with the exception of the first project
contract per jurisdiction and all contracts of more than US$600,000
equivalent); (b) US$200,000 or less for goods (with the exception of the first
project contract per jurisdiction, and all contracts awarded under LIB;



- 28 -
(c) less than US$100,000 and US$35,000 for the employment of consulting
firms and individual consultants, respectively; and (d) disbursements against
expenditures not undertaken by contract. Supporting documentation for these
would be retained and appropriately maintained by UEC and would be
available for periodic review by the Bank.
7.20 Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation the
Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Special Account denominated in US Dollars with
an authorized allocation of US$4.0 million equivalent in the BNA or a
commercial bank. An initial deposit of US$1.0 million equivalent would be
made and the full amount of the authorized allocation would be released
when disbursements reach a level of US$10 million equivalent.
7.21 Retroactive Financing. Up to US$2.0 million equivalent (2.0
percent of the total Bank financing) will be made available in retroactive
financing after April 15, 1995, up to 12 months prior to loan signing.
F. Financial Management, Accounting, and Audits
7.22 The project's accounts will be available for inspection by the Bank.
Annually audited accounts (audit reports) will be submitted to the Bank no
later than six months following the end of the government's fiscal year. The
annual audit reports will include, inter alia: (a) an audit of the project,
including: (i) a statement of sources and applications of funds, (ii) a
statement of assets and liabilities, and (iii) supplementary financial
information containing a matrix of cumulative project performance, a
summary of significant bids processed and awarded, a list of main
contractors and contracts, and the status of the financial execution of
technical assistance; (b) an auditor's opinion on the eligibility of expenses
submitted through Statement of Expenditures (SOEs); (c) opinions on
compliance with the financial-managerial covenants in the Loan Agreement;
(d) an audit of the special account; (e) a management letter; and (f) a
disclosure of the audit procedures utilized. The audit would be performed by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Draft terms of reference for the
annual audits will be submitted to the Bank as part of the Implementation
Manual.



-29 -
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision
7.23 The proposed project includes specific outcomes to be monitored (see
Annex F) and incorporates a comprehensive monitoring system, including
implementation timetables and definition of a dated plan of action with dates
for the implementation of key steps to be carried out under each component
(see para. 7.7 and Annex I). Annex K also includes a detailed Project
Implementation Plan prepared by the Argentinean team. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) the Government, through
the UEC, would submit to the Bank quarterly progress reports no later than
30 days after the end of every quarter of each year, and the last quarterly
report of each calendar year will include an assessment of overall
implementation progress over the past year; (b) the Government, through the
UEC, would submit to the Bank a draft budget proposal, including the
amount of counterpart funds and a detailed work program for the following
year, no later than June 30 of each year (coinciding with their submission to
the MOE); and (c) within thirty days after the day the government's budget
for the Health Sector is dully approved each year, the Government would
furnish to the Bank a copy of such approved budget.
7.24 The Government and the Bank would hold Annual Reviews no later
than July 31 each year. The Annual Reviews would evaluate project
implementation in the past calendar year and review the draft implementation
plan and budget for the following calendar year. Annex J contains the
supervision plan for the proposed project. In addition, the Government and
the Bank would hold a Mid-Term Review no later than July 31, 1998. The
Mid-Term Review would evaluate, among other things: (a) progress in
completion of the critical project stages defined in the implementation
arrangements; (b) compliance with the Loan Agreement's legal covenants;
(c) adequacy of availability of project financing; (d) compliance with
procurement and disbursement arrangements; and (e) the quarterly progress
reports. Additionally, the Government and the Bank will review the status of
impact indicators referred to in Annex F, for the first two hospitals in each
jurisdiction. By that time, it is expected that all institutional strengthening
activities would have been implemented and a first evaluation of their impact
can be performed. During the Mid-Term Review, the Government will
present a plan satisfactory to the Bank as the action plan referred to in
paragraphs 5.3 and 5.12 of this SAR. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that: (a) Annual Reviews should take place no later than July 31 of
each year; and (b) a Mid-Term Review should take place no later than July
31, 1998.



-30-
H. Environmental Impact
7.25 The environmental rating of the project is "B". Under Component I,
the project includes a study to review the relevant legislation and institutional
framework on medical waste management. Institutional development under
Component II would involve the analysis of current procedures and norms
and implementation, if appropriate, of new procedures and norms for waste
management in the 15 pilot hospitals.
8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.1   The main benefit of the proposed project would be to help the
Government implement its objective of rationalizing sector spending by
strengthening policy-making and improving service delivery capacity. First,
by strengthening policy-making through definition of specific short- and
medium-term strategies and actions aimed at furthering sector reform
(Component I), the proposed project sets the stage and provides the technical
tools for an in-depth transformation of the sector. Second, by supporting the
pilot strengthening of the organization and management of 15 public hospitals
and guide their transformation into HPAs, the proposed project establishes a
new and more efficient delivery model that can be replicated nationwide.
Improving public hospitals' management through their transformation into
independent trusts is a priority for the reform of the Argentine Health Sector.
Such transformation will introduce the required incentives to significantly
improve productive efficiency in the public hospitals, which constitute about
80% of public health expenditures in the country. The project will, inter
alia, increase cost-recovery, allow for more flexibility in the utilization of
resources by hospital managers, reduce unnecessary utilization of hospital
beds, and increase their productivity, as shown in Annex F. At the same
time, the change of the managerial model for the public hospitals will allow
for a complete public-private integration in the provision of health services in
the Argentine Republic in the near future.



- 31 -
B. Risks
8.2   The two principal risks of the proposed project are: (a) a lack of
future political commitment to reform in the health sector; and (b) project
implementation demands outstripping the managerial capacity of the MSAS,
the provincial ministries and the MCBA Health Secretariat. Political
commitment is particularly difficult to gauge in the case of Argentina's health
care sector, given the number and variety of interest groups involved (e.g.,
national and jurisdictional governments, unions, professional associations,
and private sector institutions). While it is not possible to guarantee support
to the project by all stakeholders, risks related to the political sustainability
of the project have been minimized by: (a) the attention given during
preparation to ensure the support of key stakeholders, particularly of the
jurisdictional governments, the MOE, and some professional associations;
and (b) a project design which is not overly ambitious, has pilot and
demonstration features and, through very specific and operational studies,
focuses on gradually building the sector's knowledge base for reform. With
regard to the project's demands outstripping the MSAS's managerial
capacity, the risk would be minimized by: (a) full-time project units (UEC
and UEPs) that have successfully managed preparation and are familiar with
Bank guidelines, following the administration of an advance from the PPF;
and (b) annual and Mid-Term reviews to assess implementation progress and
adjust the pace and scope of implementation as needed.
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
9.1   During negotiations, the Bank and the Government agreed on the
PIP and assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)   (i) a draft action plan for each eligible province would be prepared
and submitted to the Bank for comments, no later than December 31,
1997; the Bank and the Government will participate, no later than
April 30, 1998, to analyze and discuss the Action Plan submitted to
the Bank; (ii) during the Mid-Term Review, the Government would
present to the Bank the final version of such action plan incorporating
the Bank's comments resulting from the April, 30, 1998 joint review;
(iii) the implementation of such action plan would be finalized no later
than nine months before the completion date in each eligible province;
and (iv) such action plan would include, at a minimum, a proposal to



- 32 -
legally transform one eligible hospital of the respective jurisdiction
into an HPA and actions to be taken to implement the appropriate
recommendations of the studies carried out under Component I in the
respective jurisdiction (para. 5.3 and 5.12);
(b)   the maximum amount allocated to civil works and equipment will not
exceed US$6.3 million per hospital and the first phase of investments
will not exceed 40% of the total amount allocated for investments in
the respective hospital per hospital (para. 5.12);
(c)   the annual amounts of counterpart funding would be made available
for each of the five years of project implementation (para 6.4);
(d)   failure of performance by any of the three participating jurisdictions
under their respective subsidiary loan agreement would be sufficient
cause for suspension of disbursements in any of such jurisdiction, and
other provinces could be included as replacements (para. 7.3);
(e)   no later than the Mid-Term Review of the project, the Government
would present to the Bank a plan to transfer UEC and UEP
responsibilities and activities to MSAS and respective jurisdictions
(para. 7.5);
(f)   the Government will carry out the project in accordance with the
Implementation Manual and within the parameters of the Project
Implementation Plan (para. 7.7);
(g)   the Government, through UEC, would submit to the Bank:
(i) quarterly progress reports no later than 30 days after the end of
every quarter of each year, and the last quarterly report of each
calendar year will include an assessment of overall implementation
progress over the past year and (ii) a draft budget proposal for the
following year no later than June 30 of each year and an officially
approved budget for the following year no later than 30 days after its
approval by the Congress (para. 7.23); and
(h)   Annual Reviews should take place no later than July 31 each year,
and a Mid-Term Review should take place no later than July 31, 1998
(para. 7.24).



- 33 -
9.2   Conditions of loan effectiveness are that:
(a)   the UEC has been created and is adequately staffed, and the
coordinator has been appointed (para. 7.4);
(b)   the Implementation Manual has been approved by the MSAS (para.
7.6);
(c)   the MSAS-UNDP has been amended to allow for UNDP to support
the MSAS in the management of all contracts for consultant services
to be financed under the project (para. 7.9); and
(d)   all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken by the Goverment
in order to permit procurement of goods and services to be financed
by the Bank Loan in acordance with Bank procedures (para. 7.10).
9.3   Conditions of disbursement are that:
(a)   for expenditures for civil works and equipment under Component II
for the first two hospitals in each of the three jurisdictions: (i) for the
first 40% of the total amount allocated for investments in the
respective hospital, the completion of a satisfactory investment plan;
and (ii) for the remaining balance, reasonable progress in the
implementation of institutional development activities refered to in
para. 5.11 (para. 5.12);
(b)   in addition to paragraph (a) above, for expenditures in civil works and
equipment under Component II, for the second phase in the last three
hospitals for the respective jurisdiction, the submission to the Bank
during Mid-Term Review of the action plan referred to in paragraphs
5.3 and 5.12, and evidence of satisfactory advance in its
implementation in the respective eligible province;
(c)   for expenditures for each of the three participating jurisdictions under
Component II, the subsidiary loan agreement has been signed between
the Federal Government (represented by the MOE and MSAS) and the
jurisdiction (para. 7.3);
(d)   for expenditures for information systems, the submission of
Implementation Guidelines for MIS, acceptable to the Bank, to guide
all MIS investments (para. 5.9);
(e)   for expenditures for each of the three participating jurisdictions under
Component II, the UEP is created and is adequately staffed and the
coordinator has been appointed (para. 7.4);



-34 -
(f)   for expenditures for each of the three participating jurisdictions under
Component II, the corresponding parts of the Implementation Manual
have been approved by the respective eligible province (para. 7.6);
and
(g)   for expenditures for each eligible hospital under component II, the
respective hospital has: (i) a director with experience and technical
and managerial qualifications satisfactory to the MSAS through the
UEC (para. 5.12); (ii) for the each phase of investments, the hospital
and the respective province have signed the respective infrastructure
arrangement (para. 5.12); (iii) the respective province has taken all
actions, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to permit such eligible
province to carry out the procurement of goods and works to be
financed under the loan, in accordance with Bank procedures (para.
7.8).
B. Recommendation
9.4   With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project
would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$101.4 million to the
Argentine Republic, repayable in 15 years, including five years of grace.



- 35 -
Annex A
ARGENTINA - PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Distribution of Health Expenditures by Institution, 1993
INSTITUTION               Arg (Million)   % OF TOTAL  % GDP
National Govermment                   357                  1.9            0.14
Provinces & MCBA1                    3,002                16.3            1.20
Municipalities                        639                 3.5            0.25
pAMI2                                2,211                12.0           0.87
National Obras Sociales              2,7873               15.2            1.09
Provincial Obras Sociales            1,3114               7.1            0.51
Other Obras Sociales5                 367                 2.0            0.14
Private Health Insurance             2,500                13.6           0.98
Out of Pocket6                       5,200                28.0           2.04
TOTAL                                18,374              100.0           7.20
SOURCE: Ministry of Health, PRESSAL Project Basd on data from MOE.
Table 2: Estimated Health expenditures and coverage by institution, 1993
Institution           Population    % of total         Per-capita
(Million)                   expenditures Arg$
National Govermnent
Provinces & MCBA
Municipalities
TOTAL PUBLIC SECTOR               11.95          37.0'              335
PAMI                               3.8            12.0               582
National Obras Sociales            17.5          54.0                159
Provincial Obras Sociales          6.1            19.0              217
Other Obras Sociales                1.2           4.0               298
Private Health Insurance          2,500           13.6              0.98
TOTAL PRIVATE SECTOR               23.6          73.o8              389
TOTAL COUNTRY                      32.3                             408
'Municipality of Buenos Aires
2Integral Medical Care Plan-- Plan de Atenci6n Medica Integral
3 Includes transfers from the Re-distribution Fund, special transfers and other revenues.
4 Includes provincial contributions (as employers)
5Includes Obras Sociales of: Armed Forces, National Congress and Judicial Branch.
6Preliniinary estimation based on PRESSAL documents (Dec. 1994)
7 Includes indigents (27%) and population with other coverage but using public facilities for free.
a The actual sum of coverage is more than 73%. This is due to overlapping of coverage among insures.



-36 -
Annex B
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Component I: Policy Reform Studies and System Design
1.    The Formulation of Policy Reform component (6 percent of total project costs) would
help establish the basis and provide critical tools to advance sector reform. The studies are
designed to help attain following objectives: (a) improve the sector's allocative efficiency; (b)
improve the targeting of public subsidies; and (c) compensate for market failures in health
insurance and service delivery. They would involve: (i) upgrading the national information
system on sector resources, epidemiological information and the productivity of service delivery;
(ii) defining priority services to be financed by government subsidies; (iii) designing a strategy to
separate the financing and service delivery functions for the public sector; (iv) designing and pilot
testing a public hospital reimbursement system at the provincial level; (v) designing a strategy to
reform provincial OSs; (vi) designing a system to identify beneficiaries under various insurance
schemes; and (vii) designing and implementing a regulatory framework for private health
insurance and private health care providers. An additional set of studies would focus on
developing investment and project proposals (e.g., expansion of the HPA initiative nationwide,
reform of health insurance, AIDS control, and mid-term and project-impact evaluation studies) for
which Bank-funding is likely to be requested in the short- or medium-term. Finally, a study would
analyze the relevant legislation and institutional framework for hospital waste management.
2.    The studies will be carried out by external consultants (firms and/or individual
consultants) under the technical coordination of the Project Implementation Unit (UEC).
Specific Studies and Designs
National Health Resource Information System
3.    This two-year study will be carried out in all the provinces of the country.
Information from private and public providers on availability of resources, health service
utilization and provision, human resources and epidemiological data will be collected. The
main purpose of the study is to update the provincial and national information available on
service provision and epidemiological data in order to improve the planning capacity and
the resource allocation decision-making process at the provincial and national level. In
addition to data collection, a permanent data collection system will be designed and
implemented to assure that the system will continue providing the required information on
time and efficiently.



- 37 -
Health Care Intervention Priorities for Argentina
4.    After defining a methodology acceptable for policy makers in the country, the
study will identify a number of health care interventions to prioritize government subsidy
allocation. First, the study will perform a Burden of Disease calculation at the provincial
level in all 24 provinces of the country using, as a first input, the epidemiological data to
be collected by the national health resources information system, and will further collect
epidemiological information, as required. During a second stage, after defining the costing
methodology to be use, the study will collect cost information in a representative sample
of provinces. Finally, after two years and through a participative approach with different
stakeholders in the health sector, the study will recommend specific interventions to be
considered priorities for state financing.
Health financing
5,    Health financing studies will include: (a) design and strategy definition for the
separation of the health service provision and health financing for the three provinces
included in the project; (b) design and definition of a new public hospital reimbursement
system for the three provinces included in the project; and (c) design of an identification
system for the different modalities of health insurance beneficiaries to be implemented in
each eligible hospital.
Regulatory Framework for Private Insurers and Providers
6.    These studies will include: (a) system design and implementation strategy for a
legal-administrative regulatory system for private health insurers to improve the health
insurance market in the country through assuring transparency and sustainability of the
contractual relationship between customers and private insurers; and (b) system design and
implementation strategy for a regulatory system to assure basic quality of the services to
be delivered either by public or private providers.
Provincial "Obras Sociales" Reform
7.    For the three provinces included in the project, the study will identify the sources
of deficit for the provincial "Obras Sociales" and will propose a reform strategy to
significantly improve their efficiency and eventually, in the long term, eliminate subsidies
from the province to the respective provincial Obra Social.



- 38 -
Annex C
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Component II: Institutional Development
1.          The institutional development efforts to reform the eligible public hospitals
would focus on the following key areas: (a) general organization and management; (b)
accounting and finance; (c) patient administration; (d) pharmacy, materials and supplies;
(e) hotel services; (f) diagnostic procedures; (g) infrastructure and equipment
maintenance; (h) control of hospital infections; (i) utilization review; and (j) management
of medical waste.
The studies / hospital interventions, will be carried out by external consultants (firms) with
demonstrated experience in the field of re-engineering health care organizations, under the
technical coordination of the Project Implementation Unit (UEC).
General Organization and Management
2.          This area would involve support to the-hospital director in identifying
critical management and organizational bottlenecks, define a plan for reform and follow-up
the implementation of the restructuring efforts. Technical assistance in this area would be
required throughout the implementation of the institutional development sub-component
(two to three years). The consultant(s) would closely work with the hospital director and
the management team, improve their management skills, guarantee their effective
involvement in the restructuring effort and help coordinate activities of consultants
working in functional areas.
Accounting and Finance
i.          Efforts would focus on assistance to improve the hospital's capacity in
accounting and finance. The main objectives are to develop accounting and intemal
auditing systems, identify costs per cost center, establish cost control mechanisms and set
up more efficient billing and payment procedures. The establishment of these accounting
and financial systems should facilitate the gradual transformation of the hospital into an
independent trust. These systems should carefully anticipate the effect of different
alternatives of public/private hospital reimbursement methods to be designed under
Component I of the project.



- 39 -
Patient Administration
4.           This area would entail support in developing an integrated system for
patient management that registers and coordinates admissions and discharges, referrals to
ancillary and diagnostic services, emergency services, outpatient services, medical records
and hospital statistics.
Materials and Supplies
5.           Efforts would focus on developing the management of materials and
supplies (including pharmaceuticals) through improvements in procurement, inventory and
distribution. Special attention should be given to the critical area of pharmaceuticals (i.e.,
timing of purchase, reduction of stocks in nursing units) and the control of hospital
infections through appropriate systems for reprocessing and sterilization of equipment and
supplies. Activities should center on consolidating all materials management in one unit
and avoid the current dispersion of responsibilities.
Hotel Services
6.           This area would entail support to upgrading hotel services, in particular
laundry, cleaning, maintenance and food services. Recommendations should be provided
regarding the financial feasibility of keeping these services in-house or contracting them
out. Special attention should be given to the use of disposable linens to decrease the need
for washing, ironing and sewing, and to develop the most cost effective systems to
guarantee the supply of quality meals to patients (regular and special diets), visitors and
staff. While cleaning services are the least complicated of the hospital's hotel services, the
handling of cleaning services must pay particular attention to the particular needs of
hospitals, i.e., handling of expensive laboratory equipment, need for intensive and constant
cleaning of patient and surgical areas, disposal of waste.
Ancillary Clinical Services
7.           Efforts would focus on upgrading those areas which provide support to the
care of patients, including diagnostic services such as laboratory and imaging. Attention
would be given to rationalizing, among others, the sequencing of orders and speed of
response (e.g., order forms and ordering rules should clearly define priority to facilitate
sequencing of processing), the accuracy and consistency of results (e.g., setting of quality
control measures), and the dispatching of results (e.g., messenger services).



- 40 -
Infrastructure and Equipment Maintenance
8.           This area would involve support to the establishment of maintenance
systems to control the deterioration of buildings and equipment. The support should
involve a diagnosis of the current procedures (e.g., current regulations, staffing capacity),
the establishment of new regulations and operational manuals and the definition of,
primarily, the nature of services that should be contracted out or kept in-house.
Control of Hospital Infections
9.           Efforts would focus on establishing a basic quality assurance program to
reduce the incidence of nosocomial infections (i.e., hospital-associated). While quality of
care is a composite of other factors that go beyond hospital-associated infections, an
important step is to guarantee the quality of in-patient services. A reduction in
nosocomial infections will tend to influence the hospital's rate and degree of hospital
recovery and sense of well-being.
Utilization Review
10.          This area would involve the establishment of a program that facilitates the
identification of hospital utilization patterns (i.e., admissions, length-of-stays, discharges)
that are clinically inappropriate and/or have a negative impact on the hospital's operations
and costs. Special attention would be given to the standardization of medical records and
clinical histories.
Management of Medical Waste
11.          Efforts would focus on improving the mechanisms for the collection,
transport and disposal of medical waste. Special attention would be given to analyzing the
current rules and procedures, the adequacy of the hospital's facilities and equipment and
the possibility of contracting out disposal services



- 41 -
Annex D
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Summary
Local    Foreign   Total         % Foreign    % of Total
|     -USS million-               Exchange    Base Costs
Base Costs
L Formulation of Policy for Reform
I   Design for the Separation of the Health Service
Provision and Financing Functions
at the Provincial Level                              0.11      0.19        0.30         62.00         0.00
2    Survey ofHealth Services                              1.01      0.49        1.50         33.00         1.00
3    Health Care Priorities for Argentina                  0.29      0.20       0.49         40.00          0.00
4    Design ofPayment System for Hospitals                 0.41      1.10        1.51        73.00          1.00
5    Design of an Identification System for Health Insurance
Beneficiaries                                        0.24      0.16        0.40         40.00         0.00
6    Regulatory Framework for Private Insurers and Providers    0.18  0.31      0.49          64.00         0.00
7    Quality Assurance                                     0.09      0.21       0.30         70.00          0.00
8    Provincial "Obras Sociales" Reform                    0.38      1.02        1.40        73.00          1.00
9    AIDS                                                  0.07      0.45       0.52         86.00          0.00
10   Preinvestment Studies                                 0.08      0.53       0.61         87.00         0.00
Subtotal                                                   2.86      4.66       7.52         62.00          6.00
IL Pilot Implementation of Autonomous Hospitals
I   Infrastructure Upgrading                              32.65     50.14       82.79        61.00         64.00
2    istitutional Development                              18.25    14.71       32.96        45.00         25.00
Subtotal                                                  50.90     64.85      115.75        56.00         89.00
IIL Dissemination of Reform Initiatives
I   Technical Assistance                                   1.95     0.79        2.74         29.00         2.00
2   Training                                               0.21      3.27       3.48         94.00          3.00
Subtotal                                                   2.16      4.06       6.22         65.00          5.00
TOtal Base Costs                                              55.92     73.59      129.50        57.00         100.00
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                                     3.42      4.45       7.88          57.00         6.00
Price Contingencies                                        3.15      4.17       7.32          57.00         6.00
Total Contingencies                                            6.57.     8.62       15.20        57.00         12.00
Total Project Cost                                            62.49     82.21      144.70        57.00        112.00
N.B. Totals may not sum exactly due to rounding.



-42 -
Annex E
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Mlnistry of Health and Social Programs
Minister of
Health and
Social Programs                  UEC
Sertr fSecretary of              Secretary of
Institutional                   Administrative
Coordination       HelhCoordination
Provincial Ministers        E
of Health
Hospitals



- 43 -
Annex E
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Project Coordination Unit (UEC)
|Coordinator|
Deputy-Coordinator
Administration and  l     .ni
Finance Unit         Operations Unit     Programing Unit
Project             Hosp. Investments     Policy Reform Studies
Procurement         (Comp. 11)            Component I
Institutional
Project              Monitoring and       Strengthening
Disbursement         Evaluation           (Comp. 11)
UEC Administratin .Provincial Technical
UEC Administration                        Assistance (Comp. Ill)



- 44 -
Annex E
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Provincial Project Coordinatlon Unit
(UEP)
|Coordinator|
Administration and   Hospital Investments    Hospital Institutional
Finance Specialist                            Specialist



- 45 -
Annex F
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
PROCESS INDICATORS
IMPACT
Indicator                         At the end of project
implementation
Average pre-intervention length of stay for         40% Reduction
the surgical intervention causing most of the
surgical discharges in the eligible hospital  ____________________
Average length of stay for the whole                20% Reduction
eligible hospital
Average cost for the surgical intervention          40% Reduction
causing most of the surgical discharges in
the eligible hospital
Hospital services and intervention costs  Availability of final services and
intervention costs per cost center in each
eligible hospital
Availability of detailed payroll and
personnel information per cost center in
each eligible hospital.
Cost recovery                           Cost recovery systems fully implemented in
each eligible hospital
50% increase in billing to Obras Sociales
and Pre-pagas'.
50% increase in actual payment received
from Obras Sociales and Pre-Pagas.
Annual average Intra-hospital infection rate         30% reduction
Same episode re-hospitalization for the             30% reduction
surgical intervention causing most of the
surgical discharges in the eligible hospital
During the Mid-Term Review, the Government and the Bank will review the status of
impact indicators among the first two eligible hospitals in each jurisdiction. By that time,
it is expected that most of the institutional strengthening activities would have been
completed in those hospitals.
Private Health Insurance Companies



- 46 -
Annex G
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATING INDICATORS
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROCESS
Date                    Activity                     Goal
Policy Studies               All studies initiated
December 1996         (Component I)
Hospital Organization and    Initiated in the first two
Management (Component II,   hospitals in each jurisdiction
a.)
MIS strategic plan (Component Completed
II, a.)                                                l
Hospital MIS                 Bidding process initiated for
(Component II, a.)          the first two hospitals in
l__________________________  each  jurisdiction
Hospital Investments         First phase (40% of
(Component II, b.)          investment funds), initiated
in the first two hospitals in
each jurisdiction.
Policy Studies
December 1997         (Component I)                All studies completed
Hospital MIS                 Under implementation in all
(Component II, a.)           two first hospitals of each
jurisdiction
Hospital Investments         First phase (40% of
(Component II, b.)          investment funds),
completed in the first two
hospitals in each jurisdiction
Action Plan, to be implemented  Completed and submitted to
during second half of project   the bank for comments
implementation
July 1998             Project Mid-Term Review



- 47 -
Annex G
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATING INDICATORS
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROCESS
Date         |                                       Goal
Hospital Organization and    Completed. New hospital
December 1998         Management (Component II,   organization and systems
a.)                          fully implemented in the first
two hospitals in each
jurisdiction
Initiated in the last three
hospitals in each jurisdiction
Hospital MIS                 Completed. MIS fully
(Component II, a.)           implemented in the first two
hospitals in each
jurisdiction.
Bidding process initiated for
the last three hospitals in
each jurisdiction
Hospital Investments         First phase (40% of
(Component II, b.)          investment funds), initiated
for the last three hospitals in
each jurisdiction.
First phase (40% of
investment funds),
completed in the first two
hospitals in each jurisdiction
Second phase (60% of
investment funds), initiated
in the first two hospitals in
each jurisdiction
Policy reform studies        Pilot testing of
(Component I.)               recommendations of each of
the studies carried out under
component I, Initiated.



- 48 -
Annex G
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATING INDICATORS
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
PROCESS
Date                                                  Goal
Hospital Organization and    Under implementation in all
December 1999         Management (Component II,   last three hospitals of each
a.)                          jurisdiction
Hospital MIS                 Under implementation in the
(Component II, a.)           last three hospitals in each
jurisdiction
Hospital Investments         First phase (40% of
(Component II, b.)           investment funds),
completed in the last three
hospitals in each
jurisdiction.
Second phase (60% of
investment funds), initiated
in the last three hospitals in
each jurisdiction
Second phase (60% of
investment funds),
completed in the first two
hospitals in each jurisdiction
December 2000         Hospital Organization and    Fully implemented in all
Management (Component II,   eligible hospitals
a.)
Hospital MIS                 Fully implemented in all
(Component II, a.)           eligible hospitals
Hospital Investments         All investment works
(Component II, b.)           completed in al eligible
hospitals
Action Plan and Policy Strategy  At least one eligible hospital
in two eligible provinces,
fully transformed in HPA
New hospital payment
system fully implemented in
at least one eligible province



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
P  ject :lemt -:---:----:---:----p               ect                        P p  -rojec Yea".                      T --:
-.-: -1:- .'0: :-. :.-.'-: . :',-,::.'.' ''-',,' .:: : .: '' .':.: :'' '' - 2.0  :3.0:        4.0    '     1.0    Payme.t                 Remarks
Civil Works                                               7.2        15.4        22.1        13.0       5.3         63.0    ICB, LCB, Local and International
Shopping
Goods
Medical Equipment                                       0.0         9.8         10.0        8.8        0.0        28.6    ICB, Local and International Shopping.
Computer Hardware and Software                          0.6         4.1         3.6         2.5        1.3        12.0    ICB
Vehicles                                                0.0         0.2         0.3         0.0        0.0         0.5     Local and International Shopping
Office Equipment and Furniture                          0.0         0.3         0.2         0.2        0.0         0.8     Local Shopping.
Subtotal Goods                                            0.6        14.4        14.2        11.5       1.3         42.0                                              vo
Consulting Services
Consultants                                             5.1         11.8        10.3        4.6        3.0        34.7
Training and Dissemination (Per Diem, Travel and Tuition)  0.4      0.9         1.2         1.2        0.2         3.9
Subtotal Consulting Services and Training                 5.5        12.7        11.4        5.7        3.2         38.5
PPF Refinancing                                           0.8          -           -          -          -          0.8
TOTAL  1/                                                 14.0       42.5        47.8        30.2       9.8        144.3
(Bank-financed)                                  (9.8)      (29.8)      (33.4)      (21.1)     (6.9)      (101.0)
1/ Totals include contingencies.
Note: Totals may not sum exactly due to rounding.



- 50 -
Annex I
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Disbursement Forecast
DISBURSEMENT (US$ million)          Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year       Semester              Cumulative      as Percent       Project
and Semester                                                of Total       Semester
FY96
2nd (Jan.-Jun. '96)       5.2                 5.2                5               1
FY97
1st (Jul.-Dec. '96)       5.2                10.4                10             2
2nd (Jan.-Jun. '97)       14.8                25.2               25              3
FY98
1st (Jul.-Dec. '97)      14.8                40.0               39              4
2nd (Jan.-Jun. '98)       16.7               56.7                56              5
FY99
1st (Jul.-Dec. '98)      16.7                73.4               72              6
2nd (Jan.-Jun. '99)       10.5                83.9               83              7
FY00
1st (Jul.-Dec. '99)      10.5                94.4               93              8
2nd (Jan.-Jun. '00)       3.5                97.9                97              9
FY01
1st (Jul.-Dec. '00)       3.5                101.4              100             10
Closing Date: June 30, 2001
*Includes USS1.15 million (PPF), US$2.0 million (Retroactive Financing), and USS2.0 million
(Initial Special Account Allocation).



- 51 -
Annex I
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Disbursement Allocations
% of
Amount          Expenditures
Category              (US$ equivalent)      Financed
1. Works                               37,500,000         70           a/
2. Goods                                                  70           a/
(a) Medical Equipment                17,000,000
(b) Computer Hardware and
Software                          7,100,000
(c) Office Equipment and
Furniture                          100,000
(d) Vehicles                           300,000
3. Consultants' Services and                              70           a/
Training                            23,000,000
4. PPF Refinancing                      1,150,000
5. Unallocated                         15,250,000
TOTAL                      101,400,000
a/ Percentage of total expenditures.



- 52 -
ANNEX J
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Supervision Tasks
1.    The success of the proposed project depends on the capacity of the MSAS to
manage its inherent complexity as it is introducing state of the art reforms in health public
sector management and financing. Such complexity responds to the requirements of
reforms currently being implemented in the Argentine public sector The success of the
project also depends on the capacity of the Bank to develop intensive supervision
(especially during the early years) to create, in practice, the required partnership between
the Bank and the Borrower for project implementation.
Project Launch
2.    A Project Launch would be held on a date close to project effectiveness
(November-December 1995) to: (a) ensure that all operational procedures are in place;
(b) hold training seminars for UEC and UEP in Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures;
(c) publicly demonstrate high-level political support for the project and inform
stakeholders of its final version; and (d) review eligible expenditures for retroactive
financing and discuss the Implementation Plan for CY 1996.
Annual Implementation Review
3.    Each year, no later than July 31, annual implementation reviews will be held jointly
with MSAS and MOE. The purpose of these reviews would be to analyze: (a) annual
progress reports on project implementation and status of project performance indicators;
(b) findings and recommendations of policy reform studies (Component I) and institutional
strengthening in eligible hospitals (Component II); and (c) update project implementation
targets, schedules, and action plans; and to confirm the consistency and fitness of project
activities with evolving sector strategies and other sector projects. Supervision of
compliance with the legal and administrative aspects of project implementation would be
carried out during the mission as well.



- 53 -
Supervision Missions
4.    Routine supervision missions would take place in the fourth quarter of each CY of
project implementation. Specialists would be included for specific components, depending
on the issues raised in the Annual Implementation Reviews and areas of emphasis in the
annual work program.
Mid-Term Review
5.    A joint Bank-Government Mid-Term Review would be carried out no later than
July 31, 1998. The Mid-Term Review would be critical for the definition of actual
reforms to be implemented during the second half of project implementation.
6.    The critical role of the Mid-Term Review is determined by the need to reach
agreement with the Government on an action plan to be implemented during second half
of project implementation. The Action Plan to be presented to the Bank for each eligible
jurisdiction and the MSAS should be based on the Health Sector Strategy presented to
the Bank in the Policy Letter, the findings and recommendations of the studies of
component I and the experience gained in the implementation of the first phase of
Component H. Therefore, during the Mid-Term Review, the Government and the Bank
would analyze the recommendations of each of the studies carried out under component I
and the experience gained in the implementation of component II in each of the first two
hospitals per eligible jurisdiction, and agree on the specific actions to be included in the
Action Plan.
7.    The action plan for each eligible jurisdiction should contain, as a minimum: a) a
proposal to legally and administratively transform one eligible Public Hospital, within the
respective eligible province, into an Autonomous Public Hospital (HPA); and, b) actions to
implement the appropriate recommendations of each of the studies carried out under
component I in the respective eligible province. Progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in
carrying out the corresponding activities within the Action Plan, would be a condition of
disbursement for investment expenditures in the last three hospitals in each eligible
province.
8.    Additionally, During Mid-Term Review, the Government and the Bank will review
the status of impact indicators referred to in Annex F for each of the first two eligible
hospitals in each participating province. By that time, it is expected that most of the
institutional strengthening activities would have been completed in those hospitals.
9.    The Bank and the Government would share the costs of the technical assistance to
be used during the Mid-Term Review.



- 54 -
Bank Resource Allocation for Supervision
10.   Table 1 defines the estimated resources for project supervision during the five
years of project implementation.
Table 1: Estimated Resources Required for Project Supervision
Supervision    LA1HR Staff    Cross Support     External       Aprox. Total Cost
year          Weeks         Staff-Weeks    Consultants            USS
(Headquarters                   (Sp.-weeks)   (Cost of cross support not
and Field)                                         included)
1             10               10             6                55,000
2             10               8              4                52,000
3              8               6              4                 50,000
4              8               2              2                46,000
5              8               0              0                43,000



Annex K
O e
Q                  X1
0Z    _e            
0%            111                                   111
,  -                                                 S
QQP  _    ..|.  .. ... .  ........
ze~~~~~~~~~~~C .:  00 0 
W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~- Et a  -                  0f 1110
=   _    _  _..... -z --3--  .    ..    ..    .. .             0 ..
-                  0 &   1    
 *r   _          X  0                   2
_~~~ -                                o,   ............
.0' Q  w                                                   C         : t -   C, i



- 56 -
Annex L
ARGENTINA - HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.   Selected Reports and Studies in the Sector
A. 1  Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review - Argentina, World Bank, October
1, 1987. Report No 6555
A.2   Argentina: Public Sector Investment Review, World Bank, November 1986. Report
No 6354
A.3  Social Sectors in Crisis, World Bank, July 1987. Report No 6900
A.4   Aregentina: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 11790-AR, World Bank, July 14, 1993
A.5   Argentina: Decentralization and Improvement of Secondary Education Project, Staff
Appraisal Report No. 12993-AR, The World Bank, August 12, 1994
A.6   Argentina: Capital Market Development Project, Report P-6161, World Bank,
February 1994.
B.   Selected Documents and Reports Relating to the Project
B. 1. Ministerio de Economfa de la Provincia de Buenos Aires-PNUD, "Programa de
Recuperaci6n del Hospital Publico, Administraci6n y Gesti6n Hospitalaria."
Proyecto ARG /90/015, Programa de Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n de la Polftica
Social, December, 1992.
B.2.  Proyecto PRESSAL, Documento de Proyecto: "Componente 1, Estudios Basicos
nacionales para la reforma del sector salud ." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social
de la Naci6n, Republica Argentina, January, 1995.
B.3.  Proyecto PRESSAL, Documento de Proyecto: "Componente 2, Hospital Publico de
Autogesti6n (Documento Principal) ." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social de la
Naci6n, Republica Argentina, January, 1995.
B.4.  Proyecto PRESSAL, Documento de Proyecto: "Componente 3, Fondo de asistencia
tecnica ." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social de la Naci6n, Republica Argentina,
January, 1995.



B.5.  Proyecto PRESSAL, Documento de Proyecto: "Componente 2, Hospital Publico de
Autogesti6n (Anexo 1: Premisas, contenido y desarrollo del HPA) ." Ministerio de
Salud y Acci6n Social de la Naci6n, Republica Argentina, January, 1995.
B.6.  Proyecto PRESSAL, Documento de Proyecto: "Componente 2, Hospital Publico de
Autogesti6n (Anexo 2: Criterios de elegibilidad y mecanismos de selecci6n de
hospitales para las experiencias piloto) ." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social de la
Naci6n, Republica Argentina, January, 1995.
B.7.  Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud, Documento de Proyecto: "Manual Operativo
." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social de la Naci6n, Secretarfa de Salud,
Republica Argentina, March, 1995.
B.8.  Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud, Documento de Proyecto: "3.2. Manual de
Compras y contrataciones ." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social de la Naci6n,
Secretarfa de Salud, Republica Argentina, March, 1995.
B.9.  Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud, Documento de Proyecto: "3.3. Manual de
programaci6n y ejecuci6n financiera ." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social de la
Naci6n, Secretarfa de Salud, Republica Argentina, March, 1995.
B. 10. Proyecto de Reforma del Sector Salud, Documento de Proyecto: "5. Instructivo de
Ejecuci6n ." Ministerio de Salud y Acci6n Social de la Naci6n, Secretarfa de
Salud, Republica Argentina, March, 1995.






IBRD 25587
70          BOLIVIA                     600                                       50
PARAGUAY
, aSn STvador
Salta6-e
SALTAil.-              9o    
t7kv eT)um6n    r CHACO
j P   Y  (; '  Santiago   Resistencia                      BRAZIL
0 del Estera  rosd ro'
' -      SANTIAGO~                     le 
CataT\a          E
La Rioja0) ',    SEO                       VI/
L A              4 ~.SANJA      0-
30            ~SAN  RIOJ4                       F                FE
JUAN             6LRDOBA.30
J J U A N   2   (D     ? ~Santo F 2E NTR E} 
San Juan0   ALJ      C6rdobaJ an  a        S
Mendozo 5                        1,       
MendazaSon Luis,.
)SAN'
3   %   ,L~1~1 U I S - ^      /~                   GUA 
J   oe  >          B U BUENOS AIRES
9.                   ~~~~~~~~~~La Plata
r,  i  Santa Rosa
*        e      ~BUENOS
LA            AIRES
W   2               PAMPA
Lb
I   Neuque
U  2 S_^    RIO                              A   R  G   E  N   T  I N   A
-40'                      NEGRO               a4
Carmen de
Patagones
~~----'         Viedma          0)   Province Capitals
N N ational Capital
Rawson@                           Province Boundaries
CHUBUT                                      International Boundaries
MILES 0    1 00  200   300   400   500
SANTA
CR UZ                       KILOMETERS 0       200      400     600     800
Rio Gallegos                                     The  boundaries, colors,  50 o
@                                        denominations and  any
other information shown
on  this  ma p  do   not
imply, on  the  part of
The World  Bank  Group,
ainy judgment on the legal
status  of any  territory,
|  Ushuaia                     or any  endorsement
TIER RA                      or acceptance of such
boundaries.
DEL
80                       70         FUEGO    60'                         50
FEBRUARY 1994









I M A'.; 1; I HG
Rep., t Y1.: A           X39  AF
Type:  vs



