Page  1
November 1997
Dr. Roque B. Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos 
Ministerio de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
Buenos Aires 
Argentina
RE:
Provincial Health Sector Development Project
(Loan 3931-AR): Amendment
Dear Dr. Fernández:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Provincial Health Sector Development 
Project) between the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated January 19, 1996, (the Loan 
Agreement).  Whenever used in this letter, the several terms defined in the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings set forth therein.
Pursuant to discussions between staff of the Borrower and the Bank to simplify 
the procedures for approval and execution of subprojects and to make certain other 
changes in order to expedite the execution of the Project, the Bank hereby agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
The expression "Eligible Subprojects 'I' and Eligible Subprojects 'II"' is 
replaced, wherever it appears, by the expression "Eligible Subprojects".
2.
The expression "Parts B.2 and B.3" is replaced, wherever it appears, by the 
expression "Part B.2".
3.
The expression "Restructure Arrangements 'I' and Infrastructure Arrangements 
'II’" is replaced, wherever it appears, by the expression "Infrastructure 
Arrangements".
4.
Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
 Paragraph (f) is amended to read as follows: "(f) "Eligible Province" 
means a Province within the Borrower's territory which meets the criteria set forth in 
the Implementation Manual to carry out Eligible Subprojects under Part B.2 of the 
Project and such term includes the Municipality of Buenos Aires if it meets these 
criteria;".
(b)
 Paragraph (g) is amended to read as follows: "(g) "Eligible Public 
Hospital" means a hospital owned or controlled by an Eligible Province which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual for the provision of technical 
assistance and the execution of Eligible Subprojects under Part B of the Project;".
(c)
Paragraph (h) is amended to read as follows:"(h)"Eligible Subproject" 
means a specific subproject to be carried out within an Eligible Hospital for the 
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and the acquisition and utilization of 
medical equipment which meets the requirements set forth in Section 3.12 of this 
Agreement;".
(d)
The text of paragraph (1) is deleted and replaced by the following: 
"Intentionally deleted".
(e)
Paragraph (k) is amended to read as follows: "Infrastructure Arrangement" 
means the arrangement referred to in Section 3.12 (b) of this Agreement.
(f)
The text of paragraph (1) is deleted and replaced by the following: 
"Intentionally deleted".
(g)
Paragraph (v) is amended by deleting the words "the city" in the second 
line of the definition.
5.
Article III of the Loan Agreement is amended by adding a new Section 3.12 to 
read as follows:
Page  2
"Section 3.12 The Borrower, through MSAS, shall not approve Eligible Subprojects 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the following conditions are met: 
(a) the Eligible Province has entered into an SLA; (b) the Eligible Province has 
entered into an arrangement (the Infrastructure Arrangement) with the respective 
Eligible Public Hospital, substantially in accordance with terms and conditions 
approved by the Bank, (c) the Eligible Province has established a PIU and staffed such 
unit (including the appointment of a coordinator) as provided in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement; (d) the Eligible Province has taken all necessary actions to enable it to 
carry out the procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan under part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement; and (e) any other condition specified in 
the Implementation Manual."
6.
Schedule I of the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
The table in paragraph I is amended as follows:
(i)
under Category (3) the amount in the second column is replaced by: 
"1 8,000,000";
(ii)
under Category (5) the amount in the second column is replaced by: 
"14,250,000"; and
(iii)
a new Category (6) is added to read as follows:
"(6) Project Administration     6,000,000        70%"
(b)
The existing paragraph 2 is renumbered paragraph 3, and the existing 
paragraph 3 is renumbered paragraph 4. A new paragraph 2 is inserted after Paragraph 
1, to read as follows:
"2.      For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "Project 
Administration" means the reasonable cost of rents, utilities, salaries of 
fixed-term staff of the PCU, office equipment and supplies, and communications 
equipment and services incurred for the administration of the Project."
(c)
In paragraph 3, subparagraphs (4), (c) and (d) are deleted and 
subparagraph "(e)" is renumbered "(b)".
(d)
 Paragraph 4 (b) (1) is amended by replacing the amount "$600,000" by 
"$I,000,00011.
(e)
In paragraph 4, the word "and" before subparagraph (d) is deleted and a 
new subparagraph (e) is added to read as follows: "and (e) Category (6) of the table 
in paragraph I of Schedule I to the Loan Agreement,
7.
Schedule 2 is amended as follows:
(a)
 Part B.2 is amended to read as follows: "Rehabilitation of existing 
infrastructure and Acquisition and use of appropriate medical equipment in Eligible 
Public Hospitals, through the execution of Eligible Subprojects."
(b)
 Part B.3 iS deleted.
8.
Schedule 4 is amended as follows:
(a)
 In Section I Part B 2 (a) the amount "$3,000,000" is replaced by 
"$5,000,000".
(b)
 In Section I Part C 2 (b) the amount "$3,000,000" is replaced by 
"$5,000,000".
(c)
 In Section I Part D 2 (c)theamotmt"$600,000"is replaced by"$I,000,000".
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the three originals 
of letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
such fully signed original, the amendments set forth in this letter will have 
retroactive effect to March 1, 1996. 
Sincerely,
Page  3
Myrna Alexander 
Director 
Argentina Chile and Uruguay 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:  January 21, 1998 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Roque B. Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras y Servicios Públicos
