LOAN NUMBER 3931-AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Health Sector Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated I, 199 (P


﻿LOANNUMBER 3931-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated 5mud wy               , 199 o, between ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
(c)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:


﻿-2-
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Autonomous Public Hospital" means a public hospital with juridical
personality;
(b)    "BNA" means Bank of the Argentine Nation (Banco de la Naci6n
Argentina), a bank owned by the Borrower;
(c)    "Decree No. 667/91" means Decreto No. 667/91 of the Borrower,
published on April 24, 1991 which established the structure of MSAS, as such Decree has
been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)    "Decree No. 578/93" means Decreto No. 578/93 of the Borrower,
published on April 7, 1993 which established, inter alia, the functions of Autonomous
Public Hospitals, as such Decree has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)    "Eligible Professional" means a professional employed by MSAS or any
public entity which provides health services within a Province who meets the criteria set
forth in the Implementation Manual and is entitled to be benefitted by a scholarship under
Part C.2 of the Project;
(f)    "Eligible Province" means a province within the Borrower's territory
which meets the criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual to carry out Eligible
Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "Il" under Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project, and
such term includes the Municipality of the city of Buenos Aires if such municipality
meets such criteria;
(g)    "Eligible Public Hospital" means a hospital owned or controlled by an
Eligible Province which meets the criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual to be
benefitted by the provision of technical assistance and the works to be carried out under
Part B of the Project;
(h)    "Eligible Subproject 'I'" means a specific project to be carried out within
an Eligible Public Hospital consisting of rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and


﻿-3-
acquisition and utilization of medical equipment and which meets the criteria set forth in
the Implementation Manual for the inclusion in Part B.2 of the Project;
(i)    "Eligible Subproject 'II"' means a specific project to be carried out
within the same Eligible Public Hospital benefiftd by the carrying out of an Eligible
Subproject "I" consisting of rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and acquisition and
utilization of medical equipment and which meets the criteria set forth in the
Implementation Manual for the inclusion in Part B.3 of the Project;
(j)    "Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank,
which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria for the participation of Provinces in
the Project; (ii) the eligibility criteria for the inclusion of Public Hospitals in the Project;
(iii) the eligibility criteria for professionals to be entitled to scholarships under Part C.2
of the Project, and the principal terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank, of the
scholarships to be granted to such professionals; (iv) the criteria for including Eligible
Subprojects "I" and Eligible Subprojects "II" in the Project; (v) the principal terms and
conditions of Infrastructure Arrangements "I" and Infrastructure Arrangements "II;" (vi)
the terms of reference for the consultants to be employed under the Project; (vii) the
performance and monitoring indicators that will measure the progress of the Project; and
(viii) the disbursement procedures for the Project;
(k)    "Infrastructure Arrangement 'I'" means the agreement referred to in
paragraph 2 (b)(i)(B) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(1)    "Infrastructure Arrangement 'II" means the agreement referred to in
paragraph 2 (c)(i)(B) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(m)    "Investment Plan" means an Eligible Public Hospital's five-year
investment plan, satisfactory to the Bank, consisting of a detailed description of the works
to be carried out, and the medical equipment to be acquired, during the implementation
of the corresponding Eligible Subproject "I" and Eligible Subproject "II;"
(n)    "Law No. 24.156" means Ley No. 24.156 of the Borrower dated October
26, 1992, published on October 29, 1992 which governs the Borrower's financial
administration and the systems of control of the public sector, and such term includes the
regulations to such law, as such law and regulations have been amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(o)    "MOE" means the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services
(Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios P6blicos) of the Borrower;


﻿-4-
(p)    "MSAS" means the Ministry of Health and Social Action (Ministerio de
Salud y Acci6n Social) of the Borrower;
(q)    "MSP" means the Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud o Secretaria de
Salud) of an Eligible Province or of a Province;
(r)    "PCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(s)    "Pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
(t) "PIU" means any of the units referred to in Section 3.07 of this
Agreement;
(u)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter of Agreement dated February
15, 1993, countersigned by the Borrower on July 22, 1994, as amended;
(v)    "Province" means any province within the Borrower's territory and the
Municipality of the city of Buenos Aires;
(w)    "Public Hospital" means a hospital owned or controlled by a Province;
(x)    "SLA" means any of the subsidiary loan agreements referred to in para-
graph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(y)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(z)    "UNDP" means the United Nations Development Programme; and
(aa)   "UNDP Agreement" means the agreement entered into between the
Borrower and UNDP dated June 16, 1994, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time with the agreement of the Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agre-s to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred one million four


﻿-5-
hundred thousand ($101,400,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in BNA or in a commercial bank, acceptable to the
Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance w_thdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Sectioa 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-6-
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such
Interest Period.".
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Quarter.".
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.".
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)    shall carry out Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project, through MSAS, with
due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the Implementation
Manual, and in conformity with appropriate health, technical,
environmental, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)   shall cause the Eligible Provinces, through the corresponding SLA (as
mentioned in paragraph (b) herein), to carry out Eligible Subprojects "I"
and Eligible Subprojects "II" under Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project,
respectively, with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with the
Implementation Manual, and in conformity with appropriate health,
technical, environmental, administrative and financial practices, shall take
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable all the
Eligible Provinces to carry out Eligible Subprojects "I" and Eligible
Subprojects "II", and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such
subprojects.
(b)    For the purpose of carrying out Eligible Subprojects "I" and Eligible
Subprojects "II", the Borrower, through MOE and MSAS, shall relend a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan to the respective Eligible Province under a subsidiary loan
agreement (the SLA) to be entered into between the Borrower, through MOE and MSAS,
and such province under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall
include, inter alia, mutatis mutandis: (i) the commitment charge and the repayment
obligations referred to in Sections 2.04 through 2.07 of this Agreement; (ii) the
obligations referred to in Sections 3.01 (aXii) and (b), 3.02 through 3.05, 3.07, 3.09, 3.10
4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement, including the obligation of such province to provide the
necessary counterpart funds to carry out such subprojects; and (iii) the events referred to
in Sections 5.01 (b), (c) and (d) of this Agreement and the relevant events under Section
5.02 of this Agreementk
(c)    The Borrower, through MOE and MSAS, shall exercise its rights under
each SLA in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and


﻿-8-
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce
any SLA or any provision thereof.
(d)    Without limitation to paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall:
(i)    make available (in accordance with Law No. 24.156) each
calendar year to MSAS until the completion of the Project,
starting in 1996, promptly as needed in Pesos, as counterpart
funds for Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project, the following
minimum amounts:
Counterpart funds for Parts A, B.1 and
C of the Project (in Dollars equivalent
Year of                            as of the first working day of each calendar
Implementation                        year of Project implementation)
1st                                      $1,900,000
2nd                                      $5,200,000
3rd                                      $4,700,000
4th                                      $2,500,000
5th                                      $1,400,000;
(ii)   not later than  June 30 of each     year during  Project
implementation, starting in 1996, furnish to the Bank, for its
review, a copy of the Borrower's budget proposal related to the
health sector in order to demonstrate that the funds necessary to
carry out Parts A, B. 1 and C of the Project for the calendar year
following the date of presentation of such budget proposal,
including the amount of counterpart funds for such year referred
to in (i) herein, have been included in such budget proposal; and
(iii)  within thirty days after the date in which the Borrower's budget
for the health sector is approved each calendar year, furnish to
the Bank a copy of such approved budget.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agre% procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower, through
MSAS, and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, through MSAS, carry out or cause to be carried out, said plan
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through MSAS, shall cause the Eligible Provinces
in respect of their respective Eligible Subprojects to carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and maintenance,
respectively) in respect of Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower, through MSAS, shall: (i) not later than December
31, 1997: (A) complete the studies under Part A of the Project; and (B) prepare and
furnish to the Bank, a proposal, satisfactory to the Bank, to transform one Eligible Public
Hospital, within each Eligible Province, into an Autonomous Public Hospital; and (ii) not
later than April 30, 1998 participate, and shall cause the Eligible Provinces to participate,
in a joint review with the Bank of the recommendations of the studies and the proposal,
mentioned in (i) herein.
(b)   The Borrower shall on the date on which the review referred to in
paragraph (b) of Section 3.09 of this Agreement is held, prepare and furnish to the Bank
an action plan on the basis, inter alia, of the recommendations of the studies and the
proposal mentioned in (a)(i) above, the experience resulting from the carrying out of Part
B. 1 of the Project and the Bank's comments thereon, if any, for implementation by
MSAS, if applicable, and the Eligible Provinces (as mentioned in paragraph 2 (dXi)(B)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement).
(c)   In the event that the recommendations of the studies carried out under Part
A of the Project require actions to be undertaken by MSAS, the Borrower, through
MSAS, shall carry out such actions as described in the action plna referred to in (b)
above.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, through MSAS, shall establish, and thereafter
operate and maintain during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the PCU)
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
the responsibility to: (i) assist MSAS in: (A) carrying out Parts A, B.1 and C of the
Project; (B) coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Project; (C) preparing
the quarterly reports referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; and (D) preparing the
Project's budget proposal for each calendar year; and (ii) assist the PIUs in carrying out
Parts B.2 and B.3 of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower, through MSAS, shall ensure that the PCU is at all times
headed by a coordinator assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower, through MSAS, shall cause each Eligible
Province to establish, and thereafter operate and maintain during Project implementation
a provincial implementation unit (PIU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower, through MSAS, shall cause each Eligible Province to
ensure that its PIU is at all times headed by a coordinator assisted by staff in adequate
numbers, all with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through MSAS, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later
than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, starting in January 1996,
calendar quarterly reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request concerning the progress in the implementation of the Project during the calendar
quarter preceding the date of presentation of such report, with the exception of the last
quarterly report for each calendar year which shall also include the information with
respect to the progress in Project implementation for the entire calendar year in question.
Section 3.09. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower, through MSAS, shall, and shall cause the Eligible
Provinces to, review jointly with the Bank by not later than July 31 of each year during
Project implementation, starting in 1996, the progress made by the Borrower, through
MSAS, and the Eligible Provinces in: (i) carrying out their corresponding Parts of the
Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project. Such review shall also focus on
analyzing the budget proposal for the year in question and the quarterly reports, referred
to in Section 3.01 (d) (ii) and 3.08 of this Agreement, respectively. As part of each such
review the Bank may require that the Borrower, through MSAS, prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation. If so, the
Borrower, through MSAS, shall prepare and furnish such action plan to the Bank not later


﻿- 11 -
than thirty days after the conclusion of the review in question and shall thereafter carry
out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
(b)   The Borrower, through MSAS, shall, and shall cause the Eligible
Provinces to, participate in a Project implementation mid-term review to be held with the
Bank as part of the annual review to be held not later than July 31, 1998. During such
mid-term review, attention shall also be focussed on reviewing the plans referred to in
Sections 3.05 (b) and 3.10 of this Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower, through MSAS, shall: (a) on the date on which the
review referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.09 of this Agreement will be held,
prepare and furnish to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby the
MSAS and MSP of each Eligible Province will gradually assume the functions and
responsibilities of the PCU and each PIU; and (b) immediately thereafter, carry out or
cause to be carried out the action plan mentioned in (a) herein in accordance with its
terms.
Section 3.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a)(i) of this
Agreement, the Borrower, through MSAS, shall amend the UNDP Agreement under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of UNDP to
assist the Borrower, through MSAS, in hiring the consultants to be employed under Parts
A, B.1 and C of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MSAS, shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B. 1
and C of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
canying out such Parts of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account and the records
and accounts referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;


﻿- 12 -
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower, through MSAS, shall cause each Eligible Province:
(a) to maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of each Eligible
Subproject "I" and each Eligible Subproject "II" to be carried out under Parts B.2 and B.3
of the Project by each such Eligible Province; and (b) to take the necessary actions to
enable the Borrower to comply with its obligation under Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)   that Decree No. 667/91 or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect,
in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out Parts A, B. 1 and C
of the Project through MSAS;
(b)   that Decree No. 578/93 or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect,
in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, through MSAS, or the Eligible
Provinces or both, to carry out their respective Parts of the Project;
(c)   that any of the Eligible Provinces shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the corresponding SLA; and
(d)   that as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable
that an Eligible Province will be able to perform its obligations under the corresponding
SLA.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)   any of the events specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)   that the PCU has: (i) been duly established; and (ii) employed staff,
including the appointment of such unit's coordinator, as provided in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement;
(b)   that the Implementation Manual has been duly approved by the Borrower,
through MSAS;
(c)   that the UNDP Agreement has been amended as provided in Section 3.11
of this Agreement; and
(d)   that all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken by the Borrower
in order to permit the procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan (for Parts A, B. 1 and C of the Project) in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a)   the PCU has been duly established; and
(b)   all action referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
has been taken.
Section 6.03. The date A  Vvi  4 I   is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Pu'blicos
Hip6lito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:              Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA         121952-AR
Baires
For the Baik:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
Washington,D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By Isl AlVeJob            rAQLCk2-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   ((~~
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Dollar                to be
Category                    Equivalent)           Financed
(1)   Works                           37,500,000         70%
(2)   Medical, hardware and           24,500,000         70%
office equipment,
software application,
vehicles and furniture
under the Project
(3)   Consultants' services           23,000,000         70%
and training
(4)   Refunding of                     1,150,000         Amounts due
Project Preparation                                 pursuant to
Advance                                             Section 2.02(c)
of this Agreement
(5)   Unallocated                     15,250,000
TOTAL                          101,400,000


﻿- 18 -
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be
made in respect of Category (3) set forth in the table in such paragraph on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after April 15, 1995;
(b)   payments made for expenditures with respect to an Eligible Subproject "I"
unless: (i) the corresponding Eligible Province has: (A) entered into the respective SLA;
(B) entered into an arrangement (the Infrastructure Arrangement "I") with the respective
Eligible Public Hospital to be benefitted by the carrying out of such subproject,
substantially in accordance with a format approved by the Bank; (C) established a PIU
and staffed such unit (including the appointment of a coordinator) as provided in Section
3.07 of this Agreement; (D) duly approved the corresponding sections within the
Implementation Manual relating to the carrying out of the activities under Parts B.2 and
B.3 of the Project; (E) furnished to the Bank the corresponding Investment Plan; and (F)
taken all action, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to permit such Eligible Province to
carry out th., procurement of goods and works to be financed under the Loan (for Parts
B.2 and B.3 of the Project) in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement; (ii) counsel for the Borrower and the corresponding Eligible Province,
acceptable to the Bank, has each furnished to the Bank an opinion stating that the
respective SLA has been executed by the Borrower and such Eligible Province and that
such agreement is in full force and effect and that all action referred to in (i)(F) herein
has been taken; and (iii) the Eligible Public Hospital mentioned in (i) (B) herein has
appointed a director with qualifications acceptable to the PCU to administer such hospital;
(c)   payments made for expenditures with respect to each of the first two Eligible
Subprojects "II" in each Eligible Province unless: (i) the corresponding Eligible Province
has: (A) carried out the Eligible Subproject "I" in accordance with the plan mentioned in
(b) (i) (E) above; and (B) entered into an arrangement (the Infrastructure Arrangement
"II") with the Eligible Public Hospital mentioned in (b) (i) (B) above, substantially in
accordance with a format approved by the Bank; and (ii) the Eligible Public Hospital
mentioned in (b) (i) (B) above has: (A) established and implemented a system, satisfactory
to the Bank, to provide information on costs per cost center within such hospital,
satisfactory to the Bank; (B) established and implemented an organization structure
satisfactory to the Bank; and (C) established a payroll information system satisfactory to
the Bank;
(d) payments made for expenditures with respect to each of the last three
Eligible Subprojects "II" in each Eligible Province unless: (i) the corresponding Eligible
Province has: (A) met the conditions referred to in (c)(i) above; and (B) furnished to


﻿- 19 -
the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank indicating that such province has made
progress satisfactory to the Bank in carrying out the corresponding activities for such
province under the action plan referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; and (ii) the Eligible Public Hospital mentioned in (b)(i)(B) above has met the
conditions referred to in (c)(ii) above; and
(e) payments made for expenditures under Part B. 1(b) of the Project, unless the
Borrower has furnished to the Bank guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, for the design and
implementation of the system referred to in such Part of the Project.
3.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) all contracts for goods to be
awarded pursuant to the provisions of: (i) Part C.2 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, with the exception of the first contract to be awarded pursuant to the
provisions of such Part by each Eligible Province and each contract costing more than
$200,000 equivalent; and (ii) Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b)
all contracts for works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of: (i) Part C.2 (b) of
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, with the exception of the first contract to be
awarded pursuant to the provisions of such Part by each Eligible Province and each
contract costing more than $600,000 equivalent; and (ii) Part C.4 of Section I of Schedule
4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less
than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
costing less than $35,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to rationalize the Borrower's spending in the health
sector, through: (a) the strengthening of the policy-making capacity of MSAS and the
MSPs of the Eligible Provinces to: (i) foster reform in such sector; and (ii) support the
implementation of specific short and medium-term actions that will establish the
incentives for an efficient management of Eligible Public Hospitals; (b) the establishment
of a framework to transform the current structure of the Eligible Public Hospitals into
Autonomous Public Hospitals; and (c) the improvement of the capacity of the Eligible
Provinces to deliver health services resulting from the implementation of the framework
referred to in (b) herein.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:    Policy Reform Studies
Carrying out of the following studies: (a) a study to upgrade the national
information system with respect to: (i) the information available at the national registry
of health; (ii) epidemiological information; and (iii) provision of health services; (b) a
study to define priority health services to be financed through the Borrower's subsidies;
(c) a study to separate the responsibility of the Provinces to provide health services from
their responsibility to finance such services; (d) a study to: (i) design a payment system
for the provision of health services to be delivered by Eligible Public Hospitals; and (ii)
design the required legal arrangements to reflect the implementation of the payment
system mentioned in (d)(i) herein; (e) a study to define an identification system for the
various modalities of health insurance beneficiaries within the health sector; (f) a study
to design a strategy to establish a regulatory framework for the private health insurance
system; (g) a study on the modifications to the current health sector regulatory framework
in order to assure minimum quality standards of the health services delivered by public
and private providers; (h) a study to design a strategy to reform the Obras Sociales
Provinciales (the provincial occupational health insurance funds) in order to improve, inter
alia, their efficiency in carrying out their functions; (i) a study on the impact of AIDS
(Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome) in the operation of Public Hospitals, including,
inter alia, the design of actions required to mitigate such impact; (j) a study to analyze
and review the legal and institutional framework with respect to waste disposal by Public
Hospitals; (k) a study to analyze the impact of the Project; and (1) a study to prepare new
health sector projects to follow-up the Project.


﻿- 21 -
Part B:     Pilot Reform of Public Hospitals
1.    Provision of technical assistance to Eligible Public Hospitals to: (a) improve, inter
alia, their: (i) general organization and management; (ii) accounting and finance system;
(iii) administration of patients; (iv) management and procurement of pharmaceutical
materials and supplies; (v) hotel services, including, inter alia, laundry, food services and
cleaning; (vi) diagnostic procedures; (vii) maintenance of the infrastructure and
equipment; (viii) control of hospital infections; (ix) medical audits; and (x) treatment of
medical waste; and (b) design and implement a management information system.
2.    Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects "I".
3.    Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects "II".
Part C:     Information of Reform Initiatives and Training of Sector Professionals
1.    Carrying out of a campaign nationwide in order to inform the MSPs and the Public
Hospitals of the Provinces (including the Eligible Public Hospitals) with respect to the
activities being carried out by the Borrower to reform the health sector under Parts A and
B above.
2.    Provision of scholarships to Eligible Professionals in the areas of hospital
management, public health and health economics.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and
September 15
beginning March 15, 2001         5,070,000
through September 15, 2010
*The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                 Premium
The interest rate
(expressed as a
percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                 0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                 0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                   0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                 1.00
maturity


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1. Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (consisting of: medical,
hardware and office equipment, software application, vehicles and furniture) and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
2. The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.1:
(a)   Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each and $ 3,000,000 equivalent
or more each, respectively.
(b)   Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for computer equipment and software application
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more shall be carried out in two stages in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borro wer.


﻿- 25 -
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
1. Limited International Bidding
Medical equipment estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000, which the Bank agrees can only be
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2. National Competitive Bidding
(a) Medical, hardware and office equipment, software application, vehicles and
furniture estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent but less than $300,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,200,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and
3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b) Works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $300,000 but less than
$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $59,800,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c) In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with paragraphs (a) and
(b) herein, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank.
3.   International and National Shopping
Medical, hardware and office equipment, software application, vehicles and
furniture estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international or national shopping piocedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract, and not to
exceed $3,200,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under lumpsum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a


﻿- 26 -
basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts under the Project, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished by the Borrower, through
MSAS, to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph I of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Parts B and C.1 of this Section; (b) the first contract for goods to be
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2(a) of this Section by each Eligible
Province and each contract for goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent to
be awarded pursuant to the provisions of such Part of this Section; and (c) the first
contract for works to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 (b) by each
Eligible Province and each contract for works estimated to cost more than $600,000.
equivalent to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of such Part of this Section, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard


﻿- 27 -
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Bank shall be used.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000; or
(b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$35,000 equivalent each up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, with the
exception of the contracts for the employment of individual consultants to be hired by the
PCU and PIUs. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $35,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the Loan Account plus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions] shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b) (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank.the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment


﻿- 29 -
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should
be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts


﻿- 30 -
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
(b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Dcvelopment.
FOR SECRETARY


