 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14691

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                              Date Posted: 06/30/2015

                 Country: Nepal
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                     Yes     No
                Series ID:
          First Project ID : P129929                                                Appraisal               Actual
           Project Name: Np: Financial Sector        Project Costs (US$M):                        30                 30.8
                             Stability Dpc
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                         30                 30.8
       Sector Board:         Financial Systems        Cofinancing (US$M):
                             Practice
             Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                           06/27/2013
                                                                Closing Date:         12/31/2013        12/31/2013
           Sector(s):        Banking (78%); General finance sector (22%)
           Theme(s):         Other Financial Sector Development (89%); Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the
                             Financing of Terrorism (11%)
Evaluator:                   Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                Group:
                                                     Coordinator:
Iradj A. Alikhani            Clay Wescott            Lourdes N. Pagaran       IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Program Document (PD, para. 3) the program development objective (PDO) of the Credit is to
    help reduce the vulnerability and increase the transparency of the banking sector. The Credit and Program
    Summary of the PD includes a more elaborate, but equivalent statement. The former objective statement is used
    as the basis for this review because of its clarity.


 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The operation covered the following six policy areas:

    (i)   Formulation of a financial sector development strategy.

    (ii) Restructuring of two public banks (Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)).

    (iii) Assessment of the condition of Class A, B and C financial institutions and potential restructuring – while not
    clearly defined in the PD these classes refer to commercial banks, development banks, and finance companies.
    Microfinance institutions not covered by the operation are classified as Class D.

    (iv) Strengthening institutional arrangements to support the bank restructuring process.

    (v) Strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for effective bank resolution (i.e. orderly
    resolution/restructuring of distressed banks without taxpayer support).
   (vi) Increasing the transparency of the financial system.

   The implementation of the program was through nine prior actions (eight related to the vulnerability objective and
   one related to transparency) under the Credit and two other benchmarks/ ancillary measures (one per objective)
   that contributed to overall progress of the program.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The Credit was approved on 06/27/13, it became effective on 09/02/13 and was fully disbursed in October 2013.
   The operation closed as scheduled on 12/31/13. Original project cost entirely funded by an IDA Credit was
   US$30 million (SDR 19.9 million). Actual disbursements of US$30.8 million reflect the US$/SDR exchange rate
   movement between approval and disbursement.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High. The project objective was well defined and realistic. It positioned the operation within a medium- to
   long-term strategy supported by both the Government and key donors (namely the World Bank, the IMF, and the
   UK Department for International Development (DFID). The high strategic relevance is reflected in the vulnerability
   of the financial sector to internal shocks, which would be hard to manage and impose a heavy burden on the
   budget and on the economy. The PD (para. 16) estimates that a full blown financial crisis could cause a loss of
   30% of GDP, while the ICR (para. 3.4.1) provides a lower, but still substantial, estimate of 10% of GDP for such
   losses, based on the experience in other countries. There appear to have been strong ownership of this strategy
   on the Government side, despite resistance from vested interest (ICR para. 1.2.1. and p.40), which Bank/DFID
   support helped substantially alleviate. The strategic importance of reforming this sector is further highlighted in
   the July 2014 IMF Article 4 report (key issues).

   The operation and financial sector reform was and remains high priority for the Bank. The 2012-13 Interim
   Strategy Note (ISN) identifies the financial sector as a potential risk to debt sustainability and makes reforming it
   a priority for the World Bank Group (e.g., paras. 10-12, 32, and 59). However, the strategy did not explicitly
   include a specific IDA lending operation, focusing instead on analytical work and IFC support. Nevertheless, the
   possibility of such lending was apparently raised during Board discussions of the ISN (ICR para. 3.1.1.). The ISN
   was the applicable Bank strategy at time of closing of the Development Policy Credit (DPC). Nevertheless, as
   highlighted in the ICR (para. 3.1.3) this sector remains a priority strategic area within the first pillar of the 2014-18
   Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) presented to the Board in May 2014 (e.g., paras. 2, 20 and 29) which also
   mentions a follow-up operation to the one reviewed herein. The preparation of the first operation in a new series
   of two is currently quite advanced, with Board presentation expected before mid-year 2015.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial. In view of parallel technical assistance (TA) provided by DFID to support the identification and
   implementation of financial sector reform, the budgetary implications of financial restructuring of two banks, and
   the policy agenda that had been formulated, the use of the development policy lending instrument was
   appropriate. However, given that the implementation of reforms would take a few years, a question needs to be
   asked whether a programmatic series of operation should not have been formulated from the outset. The ICR
   presents a convincing argument that given the political instability at the time when the operation was designed,
   the preconditions for programmatic lending, which require longer-term ownership, were not present. Thus, the
   decision to proceed with a standalone operation was justified (also see PD para. 2). Nevertheless, the policy
   matrix includes the outline of suggested medium-term future actions, which serves as guide for continued
   subsequent sector dialogue. Furthermore, the need for short–term support to policy areas justified the standalone
   operation, in the expectation that medium- to long-term policies will be taken-up subsequently -- as is the case
   now with a new DPC being prepared.
   The policy areas selected and related actions (prior actions as well as others listed in the matrix) were
   appropriately ambitious in support of project objectives and policy areas. There were nine prior actions, only one
   of which was associated with the second objective (transparency). However, this measure was related to the
   crucial area of anti-money laundering legislation. The absence of this would have affected Nepal’s ability to
   continue to participate in the global economy. The focus of the program on the objective of financial stability
   seems appropriate, as there was a need to deal with the immediate issue and prevent a banking crisis.

   Similarly, there was a strong chain of logic reflected in expected outcomes being closely related to policy areas
   and actions under the program. There were realistic objectives set that captured expected outcomes well, based
   on the actions of the regulator and sector’s performance, as well as the expected availability of parallel TA for
   implementing reforms. An issue that is unclear is whether transferring part of the portfolio at risk of the banks to
   a specialized recovery institution, would not have been preferable to their recapitalization. Given that the banks
   were both public entities and that their capital was to be opened to the private sector, the approach chosen,
   which avoided the creation of a new recovery agency (which can be quite problematic in low capacity
   situations),seems appropriate and was on the basis of previous dialogue and agreements with the Bank.




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   At the time the operation was approved, the risk of a financial crisis caused by a run on the banks, should the two
   large commercial banks fail, was significant. This was avoided in large part through to the measures supported
   by the operation. Furthermore, a somewhat positive assessment of reforms undertaken under the program may
   be found in the aforementioned 2014 IMF report, which also notes the need to address remaining vulnerabilities.

   This operation was also based on the ex-ante judgment that the macroeconomic framework was adequate. By
   reducing the risk of failure of two large banks, the project contributed to macroeconomic stability. Furthermore,
   this judgment proved to be correct with hindsight, as Nepal now runs a fiscal surplus and is classified as low risk
   for debt distress.

   Despite political fragility, the PD’s analysis confirms that the macroeconomic policy framework was adequate for
   proceeding with the budget support operation, especially as it addresses a key macroeconomic vulnerability
   (paras. 14-17). More specifically, the operation’s efficacy is measured by considering how prior actions set into
   motion processes that contributed in achievement of PDOs based on the chain of logic and indicators. There
   were 10 final PDO indicators reported in the ICR at the end of the program. These PDO indicators are taken from
   the PD. Furthermore, achievements of objectives are discussed below based not only on end of project results,
   but also updating results since then (including post-ICR updates of the situation as of early 2015 provided by the
   task team), as the full impact of measures needed time to be fully captured.

   Objective 1: Reduce the vulnerability of the Financial sector - Substantial

   The project helped initiate the formulation of financial sector strategy, approved by the Cabinet in March 2015 (as
   a prior action for the new DPC), and which is expected to underpin future support under the proposed DPC
   series. Both NBL and RBB have been recapitalized. In the case of RBB, recapitalization was through cash
   injection, conversion of a loan to capital and through retained profits. Its capital adequacy as of mid-2014 stood at
   5.6% (from a baseline of -22% and minimum end of project target of being positive) and according to the ICR
   should reach regulatory requirement in 2015 (the ICR does not quantify this requirement, which based on
   Nepalese regulation is 10%). The latest information provided by the task team shows that as of January 2015
   RBB’s capital adequacy stood at just above 10%, meeting the regulatory requirements. Regarding NBL, in
   addition to cash infusion by Government, the recapitalization plan called for sale of non-core assets and sale of
   shares to private shareholders, as well as retained profits. By mid-2014, the capital adequacy stood at 5.3%. The
   regulatory requirements will be met through the planned divestiture of the bank to a strategic investor. It should
   be noted that capital adequacy for both banks were barely positive at project closing, but improved during the first
   six months of 2014, reflecting time needed for reform results to be fully visible. For both banks, both their deposit
   and lending policies are closely supervised by Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB - the central bank) to alleviate the risk of
   erosion of gains achieved so far. In the case of RBB, these restrictions are being progressively lifted now that the
   bank meets capital adequacy norms and its corporate governance has improved.

   At project closing the establishment of a resolution unit had been partly achieved, due to late approval of its
   bylaws in July 2014, as well as the need to build capacity, which is still ongoing with DFID support. According to
   recent information, this unit is now fully operational and has its bylaws and staff in place. Reinforcing measures
   concerned the moratorium on the establishment of new financial institutions, which has been respected up-to
   now, and reforms aimed at facilitating the consolidation of the financial sector. The target of reducing the number
   of such institutions from 199 to 175 was substantially met by project closing (176 remaining) and was exceeded
   in July 2014 (167 remaining). Consolidation efforts have been sustained, and with completion of ongoing
   mergers the number of financial institutions has been reduced further to 157. Another policy action concerned
   strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for effective bank resolution. This action suffered delays
   because the draft legislation had to be improved based on observations by the IMF and the Bank in early 2014.
   The narrow indicator related to presenting the laws and amendments to Parliament was not met. However, the
   draft documents are now ready and have been submitted for Cabinet approval in March 2015, following which
   they will be submitted to Parliament. Legislative approval is now expected. The final complementary policy
   concerned the establishment of a Deposit and Credit Guarantee Trust to protect depositors of banks subject to
   resolution. The objective of formulating a draft Bill in this area was initially met in terms of process, but not
   substance. The review of the draft by DFID consultants and Bretton Woods institutions identified shortcomings
   that needed to be addressed. This led to further stakeholder consultation during 2014. The revised Bill was
   submitted for the approval of the Cabinet in early April prior to transmission to Parliament.

   Overall, most of the activities have been completed and as documented above most indicators met or exceeded –
   notably with respect to the capital adequacy of the two banks. . The banking resolution reform initially lagged
   behind when the operation closed due to the need to enhance the initial draft Bills. The legislative process is now
   on track and reforms are being deepened under the new series of DPCs.

   Objective 2: Increasing the transparency of the financial system – Substantial

   Initial actions supported by the project were few and narrow, and aimed primarily at addressing an immediate
   priority. The sole prior action concerns the promulgation by the President of Nepal to meet at least minimal
   international standards for anti-money laundering legislation. Nepal’s classification in the Grey list was thus
   preserved (the modest result indicator was thus met). Furthermore, the Parliament approved five related
   ordinances, and as a result in June 2014 Nepal was removed altogether from the Financial Action Task Force
   watch-list. This means that the country will continue to benefit from unrestricted trade finance, remittance inflows
   and foreign direct investment.

   The second (benchmark) action was intended to support medium term reforms and was of limited immediate
   consequence. If entailed the specification of a date (July 2015) by the Institute of Chartered Accountants Nepal
   for adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). According to available information, this
   measure will become effective as planned. Its delayed implementation was largely due to the need to complete
   capacity building under the DFID TA and Multi-donor Trust fund for Public Financial Management administered
   by the Bank, and supported by DFID. Recent progress includes the adoption by the NRB of a guideline, issued in
   November 2014, establishing the transition timetable from the national to international reporting standards and
   required preparatory actions for each class of financial institution.



5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The operation benefitted from high strategic relevance and substantial design, inter-alia due to choice of
   instrument and strong logical links between prior actions, objectives, policies, and expected results. Even though
   at closing some results were partially achieved because time was needed to reach intended outcomes, all were
   substantially attained or surpassed subsequently by end 2014.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The PD (pp. 52-3) lists a number of risks associated with the operation such as political instability and lack of
   Constituent Assembly (Parliament) to approve laws. Project design effectively mitigated these risks. There was
   also a concern that the new Government may not give priority to implementing the financial sector strategy. This
   risk does not appear to have materialized as evidenced by the Bank proceeding with preparation of the new
   operation. The need to sustain policy reform over time despite possible resistance from vested interest seems to
   be appreciated by all stakeholders, as reflected in further reforms being implemented under the follow-up
   operation. This will help solidify achievements, and avoid the repetition of circumstances that led to the effective
   bankruptcy of two large state banks.
  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The implementation of a meaningful program was initiated despite country challenges that included the
   absence of a Parliament, which was finally elected after the project closed. The Bank thus took a risk that
   appears to have paid-off, as opposed to waiting two years for a more stable political situation during which the
   two largest banks might have failed and Nepal might have been put on the list of countries with inadequate
   policies towards money laundering. The Bank helped develop a program that included substantial short-term
   actions that addressed immediate priorities, while also setting the stage for longer-term reforms. The
   operation built on both lessons from past experience, based on previous TA projects in Nepal, as well as
   international experience and response to financial crises (PD, paragraphs 61-2). There was also strong
   analytical underpinning based on the work undertaken through the Financial Sector Reform and
   Strengthening Initiative, as well as by the US Treasury, DFID and the IMF. Importantly, DFID continued to
   provide resources for implementation of the reforms and identification of the next phase of the program. The
   project thus benefitted from sound design and M&E.

   A minor weakness worth noting is that given the stand-alone nature of the operation, the lag between reforms
   being implemented and results being observed, and the need to undertake analytical work, the seven month
   implementation period seems too short.



  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   Despite the short implementation period the Bank team proactively sustained the policy dialogue on key
   implementation issues with the Government, in close collaboration with development partners. It also
   prepared an Implementation Status Report that was required for one time operation until 2014. Furthermore,
   this dialogue continued past the closing of the project, which helped ensure that partly achieved results at
   time of closing were subsequently materially achieved.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The Government (Ministry of Finance and NRB) endorsed the reform program and implemented the
   operation. It not only implemented the specific reforms supported by the operation and appears to have
   overcome potential resistance from vested interests, but also initiated broader reforms in 2014 identified
   through analytical work. Government was also responsible for monitoring the results, which was done
   satisfactorily. Delays in achieving some outcomes were apparently partly due to completion of key analytical
   work taking longer than expected. Nevertheless, reflecting government ownership, implementation of actions
   continued during 2014, after the operation was closed. Given the political situation at the time the operation
   was implemented, the then Government and the subsequently elected one in 2014 performed as well as
   could be expected.
  Government Performance Rating :                            Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Not Applicable

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The project was underpinned by a good M&E design that captured the likely impact of the reforms over time, with
   end-target set at project closing. The indicators were appropriate for, and attributable to the type of actions they
   were related to. A baseline was provided for these indicators, which numbered 10 in total. Specifically, some of
   the indicators were output related, some were qualitative, such as developing a roadmap for the financial sector
   strategy, most others were quantitative such a date for adopting IFRS or the number of financial institutions
   subject to in-depth diagnostics. Other quantitative indicators were formulated in the form of outcomes, such as
   the level of capital adequacy of the two banks, implementation of bank resolution unit and removal of Nepal from
   the Financial Action Task Force list.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The Ministry of Finance, through a newly created division, and the NRB, jointly monitored the implementation of
   the program and indicators. DFID funded advisers assisted Government counterparts in this task. The ICR not
   only presents information on indicators at closing but also at mid-2014 Furthermore, as an input to this review,
   IEG was provided by the task team information on indicators as of end 2014 This reflects the fact that monitoring
   of results is continuing.

c. M&E Utilization:

  Some indicators, such a capital adequacy at the two state banks, were used to ensure that these institutions’ turn
  around after continuing recapitalization. In the same vein progress on consolidation of the financial sector was
  also monitored. Other indicators were used to track progress or deadlines pertaining to financial sector reforms
  and project objectives.
 M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The overall social and poverty impact of the operation is expected to be positive by protecting households and
   small depositors through an insurance scheme and giving them priority in the event of a bank resolution, and by
   reducing the likelihood of a financial crisis. None of the actions envisaged under the program are expected to
   trigger environmental or other safeguards.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The PD (pp.49-52) sets out the issues affecting public sector management, based on a 2007 Public Expenditure
   Financial Accountability report. Government strategy to improve public financial management (PFM) is in part
   based on the findings of this report and a subsequent action plan, which is supported by a Multi-donor Trust Fund
   for PFM administered by the Bank. Political instability has affected the implementation of this strategy, as
   reflected in weaknesses in PFM and governance. There is no explicit statement in the PD whereby PFM in Nepal
    provides an adequate basis for budget support. However, this is implied in the text (para.17) describing the
    adequacy of the macroeconomic framework based inter alia on the PFM reform agenda supported by the Bank
    and the IMF
    .

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    The ICR lists three unintended impacts: (i) unprecedented stakeholder collaboration; (ii) clear signal that status
    quo will no longer prevail; and (iii) integration of some contingent liability arising from the financial sector into
    consideration of fiscal sustainability. While these are important positive aspects of implementation, they do not
    constitute unintended impacts per-se.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory          High      strategic   relevance    and
                               Satisfactory                                       substantial design relevance. Two
                                                                                  PDOs with substantial efficacy, with
                                                                                  reforms implemented and sustained,
                                                                                  and some targets surpassed, since the
                                                                                  project closed and the ICR was issued.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Satisfactory          Satisfactory quality at entry and
                              Satisfactory                                        supervision    over     the     brief
                                                                                  implementation period, with evidence
                                                                                  that dialogue has been maintained
                                                                                  since.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Satisfactory          Reforms implemented and sustained
                              Satisfactory                                        during and after project closing.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR lists a number of lessons that seem warranted based on the experience under this operation. Key
    ICR lessons include: (i) it is important to quickly respond to a client’s request for assistance, even if the political
    structure is uncertain; this in turn helps the Bank to be regarded as a valued partner; (ii) taking the risk of
    supporting initially difficult reforms through a stand-alone DPC helps to build a momentum for further reforms;
    (iii) there should be sufficient time given for completion of reforms after funds are disbursed; (iv) availability of
    TA resources and effective/seamless donor coordination supporting the implementation of policies are keys to
    success.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is well written and provides a good basis for understanding the origins and logic of the operation and
    implementation experience. It provides the latest updated information available at the time the ICR was issued (to
    end-June 2014). The ratings are candid (even quite conservative once additional achievements during 2014 are
    taken into account) and based on sound analysis and presentation of evidence.

    The ICR overlooks the fact that a DPO is extended on the basis of sound macroeconomic framework being in
    place, and this issue is only discussed in the PD – one may assume that given the short implementation period
    the PD’s analysis remained largely valid. Other minor imperfections include a few typos and some repetitive
    passages. Notwithstanding these issues, the overall ICR quality is on the upper side of the Satisfactory range.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
