                          OFFMIC ,Al.
                         WCUMENTS!


                                                 LOAN NUMBER 8142-BR




                 Loan Agreement
  (Expanding Opportunities, Enhancing Equity in the State of Pernambuco
                       Development Policy Loan -
Programade Desenvolvimento das PolkicasPsiblicasdo Estado de Pernambuco)


                               between


          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                     AND DEVELOPMENT


                                 and


                      STATE OF PERNAMBUCO




                 Dated                    /    ,2012-1
                                                                                            f




                                 LOAN AGREEMENT

 Agreement dated                ,13                     , 201-2,  entered into between
 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 ("Bank") and STATE OF PERNAMBUCO ("Borrower") for the purpose of providing
 financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).

WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which
are described in Section I.A of Schedule I to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower's
maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii)
appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.

WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of
the proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in the Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be designated
by the Borrower, the Borrower's financial capacity will be strengthened by expanding its
fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the Borrower's
budgetary laws.

The Bank and the Borrower therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I -     GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II-      LOAN
2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million Dollars
        ($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement ("Loan").

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
                the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
                Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
                Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
                management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
                the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
                Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
                all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
                a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
                Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
                applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
                withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
                 or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.
                                                                                    or
         (c)     Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap
                 Interest Rate Collar for which   the Borrower has requested  that the
                 premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
                 behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
                 itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
                 with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount

                                           -2-
                  allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
                  Schedule I to this Agreement.

 2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
         (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
         Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
         promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
         Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                              ARTICLE II - PROGRAM

3.01.    The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
         To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

         (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                 either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor's macroeconomic
                 policy framework; (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
                 expenditure program, sustainable debt, and appropriate fiscal
                 arrangements with the Guarantor, as referred to in Whereas (A) of this
                 Agreement; and (iii) the progress achieved in carrying out the Program
                 and the actions specified in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

         (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                 Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                 carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                 request; and

         (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                 Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                 that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower's
                 ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt
                 and/or fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or (ii) reversing the
                 objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program
                 including any action specified in Section I.A of Schedule I to this
                 Agreement.

                    ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.    The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

         (a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
                or a significant part of it, will be carried out.


                                          -3-
        (b)     An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower
                to reverse any action or policy under the Program, including any action
                listed in Section I.A of Schedule I to this Agreement, in a manner that
                would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of
                the objectives of the Program.

               ARTICLE V -       EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

        (a)     That the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
                the carrying out of the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor's
                macroeconomic policy framework.

        (b)     That the Bank is satisfied with the Borrower's maintenance of an
                appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal
                arrangements with the Guarantor.

5.02.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
        been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank.

5.03.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
        approval of the Loan which expire on September 20, 2013.

               ARTICLE VI-        REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower's Representative is the Secretary of SEFAZ.

6.02.   The Borrower's Address is:

        Rua do Imperador, s/no. - 8o. andar
        Santo Antonio
        Recife - PE 50010-240

        Facsimile:
        +55.81.31836171




                                          -4-
6.03.   The Bank's Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:               Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.          64145(MCI)




                                          -5-
AGREED at A?7                                                    ,as of the day
and year first above written.



                                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                By               '
                                                      Authorized Representative


                                STATE OF PERNAMBUCO


                                By
                                                      Authorized Representative




                                     -6-
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                   Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

A.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
        the Program include the following:

1.      The Borrower has created conditions conducive to improving the quality of
        education, including an increase in the hours of instruction, as evidenced by:

        (a)     Gubernatorial Decree No. 36.120 of January 21, 2011, authorizing full-
                day instruction (40 hours per week) in six (6) additional secondary
                schools, for an aggregate total of 65 secondary schools; and

        (b)     Gubernatorial Decree No. 36.119 of January 21, 2011, authorizing
                expanded hours of instruction (32 hours per week) in fourteen (14)
                additional secondary schools, for an aggregate total of 108 secondary
                schools.

2.      The Borrower has strengthened its management of water resources through the
        appointment of permanent technical personnel for APAC in accordance with
        competitive procedures, as evidenced by Gubernatorial Act No. 4570 of May 10,
        2011 and Joint Resolution (Portaria Conjunta) SAD/APAC No. 117 of
        December 14, 2010, all in accordance with the APAC Law and the APAC
        Resolutions.

3.      The Borrower has improved the management of disaster risks through the
        issuance of APAC's Board Resolution No. 001-2011, dated August 22, 2011,
        defining activities related to forecast and early warning of disasters linked to
        hydro-meteorological events in the Borrower's territory, and identifying such
        activities jointly as activities of a situation room, as said activities have been
        integrated into the Hydrological Critical Events Forecast System of the
        Guarantor's Federal Government.

4.      The Borrower has improved and developed human capital for the job market with
        emphasis on professional education through the transformation of six (6) state
        schools into schools of professional education, as evidenced by Gubernatorial
        Decrees No. 36.355 of March 29, 2011 and No. 36.121 of January 21, 2011.




                                          -7-
5.   The Borrower has strengthened its institutional framework aimed at promoting
     gender equality through the creation of a permanent Women's Secretariat
     (Secretaria da Mulher) to replace the former temporary special Women's
     Secretariat, and the approval of regulations for said secretariat, as evidenced by
     the Borrower's Law No. 14.264 of January 6, 2011 and Gubernatorial Decree
     No. 36.659 of June 14, 2011, respectively.

6.   The Borrower has taken the following steps to establish its Development Agency
     (Ag6ncia de Fomento do Estado de Pernambuco, S.A.) ("AGEFEPE"), aimed at
     promoting economic and social development by supporting micro, small and
     medium-size enterprises and rural producers in local production chains:

     (a)     the authorization by the Guarantor's Central Bank (Banco Central do
             Brasil) to commence the operations of AGEFEPE on December 9, 2010;
             and

     (b)     the enactment of the Borrower's Law No. 14.282 of March 29, 2011,
             allocating resources to AGEFEPE.

7.   The Borrower has taken the following measures to improve tax revenues without
     increasing tax burdens on taxpayers:

     (a)     the establishment of a regulatory framework for the implementation of a
             new fiscal control system (Sistema de EscrituraqdoFiscale Cont6bil 2)
             ("SEF-2"), as evidenced by the Borrower's Resolution (Portaria)No.
             190, dated November 30, 2011, issued by SEFAZ; and

     (b)     the establishment of a Tax Substitution System for selected products, as
             evidenced by Gubernatorial Decrees No. 35.655 of October 7, 2010
             (linens), No. 35.656 of October 7, 2010 (bicycles), No. 35.657 of
             October 7, 2010 (toys), No. 35.677 of October 13, 2010 (cosmetics,
             pharmacy products and toiletries), No. 35.678 of October 13, 2010
             (construction and home design materials), No. 35.679 of October 13,
             2010 (automobile parts), No. 35.680 of October 13, 2010 (electric
             materials) and No. 35.701 of October 19, 2010 (electronic products and
             home appliances).

8.   The Borrower has improved the efficiency of budget allocation and execution
     through the formulation and execution of the PPA and budget, both structured
     into strategic priorities, as evidenced by:

     (a)     the Borrower's Law No. 14.234 of December 13, 2010;


                                       -8-
       (b)    the Detalhamentos de Despesas por Elemento (DDEs) published in
              www.transparencia.pe.gov.br; and

       (c)    letter dated September 12, 2011 from Secretary of SEPLAG, attaching a
              report on the budget execution by strategic priorities for the period
              January 1, 2011 through August 31, 2011.

9.     The Borrower has consolidated its Management Model and strengthened its
       capacity to generate results through the establishment of the Management
       Institute, as evidenced by Gubernatorial Decree No. 37.828, dated February 2,
       2012.

Section H.    Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.     General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
       with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
       may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.     Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
       Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
       Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
       amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                                                          Amount of the Loan
                                                               Allocated
                       Allocations                       (expressed in Dollars)

        (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                         498,750,000

        (2) Front-end Fee                                       1,250,000

        (3) Amount due pursuant to Section                               0
        2.07(c) of this Agreement
        TOTAL AMOUNT                                          500,000,000

C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

1.     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
       is satisfied:

       (a)     with the adequacy of the Guarantor's macroeconomic policy framework
               and the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
               Program; and

                                         -9-
     (b)    that the Borrower is maintaining an appropriate expenditure program,
            sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.

D.   Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
     account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and

2.   the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
     this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
     management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
     at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
     Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
     refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
     refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2013. The Bank will grant an
     extension of the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
     informed the Bank that it agrees with such an extension.




                                     - 10 -
                                  SCHEDULE 2

                             Amortization Schedule

     The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
     percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
     Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
     withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
     Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
     determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
     first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
     Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
     amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
     Conversion applies.

              Principal Payment Date                      Installment Share
                                                      (Expressed as a Percentage)
      On each May 15 and November 15
             Beginning May 15, 2017
             through November 15, 2041                              2%

2.   If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
     Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
     each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
             the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
             Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
             of this Schedule.

     (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
             repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
             withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
             amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
             the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
             Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
             and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
             Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
             date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
             amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
             Conversion applies.



                                       - 11 -
3.   (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
            Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
            principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
            withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
            following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
            Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
            Date following the date of withdrawal.

     (b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
            at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
            invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
            provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
            withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
     Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
     Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
     repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
     each such amount.




                                      -   12   -
                                    APPENDIX

Section I.    Definitions

1.     "AGEFEPE" means Agencia de Fomento do Estado de Pernambuco, S.A., the
       Borrower's Development Agency created through Gubernatorial Decree No.
       35.156 of June 11, 2010.

2.     "APAC" means Agencia Pernambucana de Aguas e Clima, the Borrower's
       Agency for Water and Climate, created pursuant to the APAC Law.

3.     "APAC Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 14.028 of March 26, 2010,
       creating APAC.

4.     "APAC Resolutions" means the Borrower's Decree No. 34.860 of April 23,
       2011, regulating APAC's structure and procedures.

5.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:

       (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
              international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
              Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
              Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
              or grant;

       (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
              International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
              by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
              (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
              revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
              Borrower:

                   Group           Sub-group              Description of Item
                    112                              Alcoholic beverages
                    121                              Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                     tobacco refuse
                     122                             Tobacco, manufactured
                                                     (whether or not containing
                                                     tobacco substitutes)
                     525                             Radioactive and associated
                                                     materials



                                      - 13   -
                 Group           Sub-group                Description of Item
                  667                              Pearls, precious and
                                                   semiprecious stones, unworked
                                                   or worked
                   718              718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                   thereof; fuel elements
                                                   (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                                   nuclear reactors
                   728              728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
                   897               897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                   platinum group metals (except
                                                   watches and watch cases) and
                                                   goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                                   wares (including set gems)
                   971                             Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                                   gold ores and concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
            agreements to which the Borrower is a party);

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     (f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
            (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
            satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

6.   "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

7.   "Guarantor" means the Federative Republic of Brazil.




                                     -14-
8.    "Management Model" means the Borrower's management model established
      under Lei Complementar No. 141 of September 3, 2009, which consists of the
      systemic organization of the functions related to the Borrower's formal planning
      instruments (i.e., its PPA (as defined below), its annual budget guidelines and its
      annual budget law) and management tools adopted by the Borrower's public
      administration.

9.    "PPA" means Piano Plurianual, the Borrower's multiannual                  planning
      instrument, as published in www.transparencia.pe.gov.br.

10.   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
      promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
      referred to in the letter dated January 20, 2012, from the Borrower to the Bank,
      declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
      requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
      execution.

11.   "SEF-2" means the Borrower's new fiscal control              system created by
      Gubernatorial Decree No. 34.562 of February 8, 2010.

12.   "SEFAZ" means Secretariada Fazenda,the Borrower's Secretariat of Finance.

13.   "SEPLAG" means Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestdo, the Borrower's
      Secretariat of Planning and Management.

14.   "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
      category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
      Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.

15.   "Tax Substitution System" means the Borrower's system applicable to selected
      products with high volumes of sales and highest risk of evasion, which identifies
      goods, registers sales electronically, and collects the tax on goods and services
      (Imposto sobre Operaq6esrelativasa Circulaqdode Mercadoriase Prestagdode
      Servivos de Transporte Interestadual e Intermunicipal e de Comunicaqdo or
      ICMS) at the point of origin or initial sale rather than at the point of the final
      consumer or client.




                                       - 15-
Section H.      Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (DesignatedAccounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (FinancialManagement;
       FinancialStatements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works andServices) is deleted in its entirety.

5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
       above) is modified to read as follows:

       "Section 5.06. Plans;Documents; Records

        ...      (c)     The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
       bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
       two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
       representatives to examine such records."

6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
       above) is modified to read as follows:

       "Section 5.07. ProgramMonitoringand Evaluation

       ...     (c)      The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
       to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
       scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
       the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
       respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
       the purposes of the Loan."




                                          -16-
7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
            follows:

            "'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

     (b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
            modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
            these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):

            "'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
            support of which the Loan is made."




                                    -   17 -
