Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6837-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 86.3 MILLION
OF WHICH SDR 24.5 MILLION
HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED FROM IDA REFLOWS
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MAY 10, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =     Kenyan Shilling (Ksh)
US$1     =      Ksh 58.389 (March 1996)
Ksh I    =      US$0.0171
US$1     =      SDR 0.6844 (March 1996)
SDR I    =       US$14612
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -  Country Assistance Strategy
CBK          -  Central Bank of Kenya
CCK          -  Communications Commission of Kenya
DGIPE        -  Department of Government Investments and Public Enterprises
ESAF         -  Enhance Structural Adjustment Facility
ESTU         -  Executive Secretariat Technical University
KAA          -  Kenya Airports Authority
KPA          -  Kenya Ports Authority
KPLC         -  Kenya Power and Lighting Company
KPTC         -  Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
KR           -  Kenya Railways
KTC          -  Kenya Telecommunications Corporation
LDP          -  Letter of Development Policy
LRMC         -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MLRRWD    -  Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development
MOALDM    -  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
MOF          -  Ministry of Finance
MOH          -  Ministry of Health
MOLS         -  Ministry of Lands and Settlements
MOPWH        -  Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NCPB         -  National Cereals and Produce Board
NSSF         -  National Social Security Fund
PCK          -  Postal Corporation of Kenya
PFP          -  Policy Framework Paper
PIP          -  Public Investment Program
SAC         -  Structural Adjustment Credit
VERS         -  Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
SUMMARY
PART I: THE  1996-98 ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  .................................................I
A. Public Resource Management ..........................................................1
B. Parastatal Reform ..........................................................6
C. Civil Service Reform .............1............................................ 11
PART II: RELATION WITH COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  ................ 12
PART III: THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT .............. 13
A. Objectives and Size of the Proposed SAC  ..................................................... 13
B. Procurement and Disbursement ...................               ................................. 17
C. Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision ................................................... 17
D. Performance Indicators ....................................................                  18
E. Benefits and Risks .....................................................                     20
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION  .....................                        .................................... 22
Annexes
ANNEX A: Letter of Development Policy with Policy Matrix
ANNEX B: Kenya Social Indicators
ANNEX C: Kenya at a Glance
ANNEX D: Kenya Key Indicators
ANNEX E: Kenya Balance of Payments
ANNEX F: Status of Bank Group Operations in Kenya
ANNEX G: Supervision Plan
Figures
FIGURE  1: Fiscal Deficit and Money Growth .................................2
Ms document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.           l



Boxes
Box 1: Public Expenditure Allocation: Government of Kenya Performance ...........5
Box 2: Financial Performance of Key Parastatals ....................................................7
Box 3: Debt Sustainability .......................................................     14
Box 4: Five Questions for Higher Impact Adjustment Lending .............................. 21
Tables
Table 1: Fiscal Framework .......................................................      15
Table 2: Selected Performance Indicators .......................................................    19
This operation was prepared by a team led by Robert Blake (Senior Economist and
task manager (AF2CO)) and including Tom Allen, Kathleen Jordan (AF2CO),
Khaled Sherif, Gerard Byam and Ian Knapp (AF2PE), Simon Thomas and Joel
Maweni (AF2EI), Gajanand Pathmanathan (AF2AE), Bruce Jones and Reema Nayar
(AF2PH), Rogati Kayani (IENTI), and Anand Rajaram, Richard Anson, Lucas
Ojiambo and Dahir Warsame (Nairobi Resident Mission). Reviewing the operation
at various points were Richard Westebbe (Consultant), Rashid Faruqee (SA1AN),
and Yaw Ansu (DECVP). Mr. David Yuravlivker is Acting Chief, Country
Operations Division and Mr. James W. Adams is Director, Eastern Africa Region.



KENYA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUMMARY
Beneficiary:             Republic of Kenya
Project Task ID:         KE-PA-1334
Implementing             Ministry of Finance
Agency:
IDA Amount:              SDR 86.3 million (US$ 126.8 million equivalent) of which
SDR 24.5 million (US$ 36.8 million equivalent) have been
allocated from IDA reflows.
Terms:                   Standard IDA Terms: 40 years maturity with a 10-year
grace period.
Co-financing             None at present.
Disbursement:            The proposed Credit will be disbursed through the Central
Bank of Kenya. The initial tranche of US$ 81.8 million
equivalent, including the allocation from the IDA reflows,
will be available upon Credit effectiveness and the Second
Tranche of US$ 45 million equivalent upon completion of
specified actions.
Background:              The Structural Adjustment Credit is based upon the
Government's Policy Framework Paper, distributed to the
Board February 23, 1996, and related Letter of
Development Policy which set out the Government's
medium term strategy. This strategy has as objective the
reduction in poverty and unemployment through an
acceleration in economic growth. This is to be achieved by:
strengthening monetary and public sector finance
management and consolidating fiscal discipline; accelerating
and streamlining reform in the civil service and public
enterprises and improving the delivery of infrastructural
services; liberalization of markets; addressing the social
aspects of development; and eliminating corruption. This
strategy is in line with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
presented to the Board January 30, 1996.



Description               The SAC will focus on Government reforms in the areas of
public sector management, public enterprise and civil
service reform in line with the overall medium term
strategy. Specific reforms supported include: improvement
in the quality of public expenditures through expenditure
reallocation; enhancement of efficiency of key public
enterprises through restructuring and divestiture of
activities; reduction in the size of the public sector through
accelerated privatization; reduction in the size of the civil
service and improvement in efficiency through ministerial
rationalization. At the macroeconomic level, the SAC will
support Government efforts to consolidate the fiscal
position and improve Kenya's external position to levels
sustainable over the medium term.
Rationale for IDA         The SAC addresses policy areas in which IDA is already
Involvement               involved through the provision of technical assistance. As
noted in the CAS, an acceleration in economic growth is
essential if sustainable reductions are to be made in poverty
in Kenya and improvements in public sector efficiency as
one of the key constraints restricting Kenyan growth
performance. The Government's recent macroeconomic
policy performance, reducing the fiscal deficit and
restricting monetary growth, have set the stage for
addressing these issues as well as demonstrating the
Government's capacity to carry out the new reform
program.
Government                Government commitment to the program is demonstrated in
Commitment                the endorsement of the Policy Framework Paper by the
President, its publication and the appointment of a
Commission, including outside participants, to oversee its
application. In addition, since the announcement of the
program in February the Government has undertaken a
number of actions. These include: increase in petroleum
duties, Cabinet approval of restructuring programs for KR
and KPTC, completion of draft legislation for the splitting
up of KPTC; seeking bids for outside experts on a contract
for the commercialization of NCPB, appointment of a new
chairman of KPA and preparation of a contract for the
management and operation of container terminal by an
outside expert, announcement of an increase in electricity
tariffs, and instructing NSSF to undertake new investments
only in Government securities except for a specified level of
deposits in commercial banks.



Benefits                 Implementation of the reform program will permit an
increase in real growth to 5-6 percent a year and, by
improving Kenya's internal and external balances, set the
stage for a sustainable acceleration in real growth to over
six percent, a rate which is needed for reduction of poverty.
Also, by increasing expenditures on programs which benefit
the poor, it will improve the situation of the disadvantaged
directly.
Risks                     The chief risk associated with the program is failure in
Government commitment. As noted in the CAS, Kenya's
major shortcoming in pursuing economic reform has not
been implementation capacity but commitment, as
evidenced in past policy reversals. This risk is exacerbated
by the fact that Presidential and Parliamentary elections are
scheduled for 1997; in the past such elections have been
associated with a reduction in fiscal discipline. The
program has sought to address these problems by seeking
Presidential endorsement of the overall program together
with its publication, by insisting on specific actions (e.g.,
tighter expenditure controls and increased independence of
the Central Bank) to strengthen areas of potential slippage,
and by ensuring that a number of key actions (e.g., the
commercialization of NCPB and the conversion of NSSF
into an autonomous pension fund) occur prior to the
beginning of the elections. In addition, the program is
closely linked with the new three-year ESAF arrangement,
ensuring an overall coherence.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 86.3 MILLION (US$ 126.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Intemational Development Association (IDA) Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC) to the Republic of Kenya for SDR 86.3 million, (US$ 126.8 million equivalent),
of which SDR 24.5 million have been allocated from IDA Reflows on standard IDA terms
with 40 years maturity and a 10 year grace period. The proposed IDA credit would
support the implementation of the Govenmment's medium term reform program. The
proposed SAC is an integral part of the 1996-98 Country Assistance Strategy (KE-
15254), discussed by the Board on January 30, 1996. Recent economic and political
developments, past experience with adjustment, the Govermnent's strategy, and the Bank
Group assistance strategy are set out in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).
Accordingly, this report is limited to the details of the proposed credit.
PART I: THE 1996-98 ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
2.    Program Content. The Government of Kenya's medium term economic policies
are set out in its Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1996-98, which was developed in
collaboration with the [MF and World Bank staff and distributed to the Board on February
23, 1996. This program is reiterated in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
(LDP) (see Annex 1). This document highlights poverty reduction as the principal
objective and sets out Government strategies and related policy measures to achieve this
objective. The proposed medium term framework is consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy in this respect. As noted in both the PFP/LDP and the CAS, an
acceleration of economic growth is needed for poverty reduction in Kenya. One of the
requirements for an acceleration in economic growth is enhanced public sector efficiency.
There are three aspects to this: improved public sector resource management to improve
spending allocations; parastatal reform to reduce budgetary pressures and increase overall
economic efficiency; and civil service reform to improve public administration and permit
increased expenditures in areas critical to economic growth. In addition to providing
overall support to the Government's adjustment program, the proposed SAC will focus
specifically on these three areas.
A. Public Resource Management
3.    Overview. Kenyan fiscal and monetary discipline weakened substantially in the
early 1990's. At that time, parliamentary and Presidential elections gave rise to a sharp



-2 -
increase in unprogrammed spending as well as large scale recourse to Central Bank of
Kenya (CBK) credit through overdraft and rediscount facilities. As a result, the fiscal
deficit, measured exclusive of grants, increased in 1992/93 to 11.4 percent of GDP.' In
parallel, the money supply, measured as money and quasi-money (M3) at the end of each
calendar year, expanded as so-called "political banks" accessed CBK credit through such
devices as pre-export financing. Consequently, inflation rose and was on the order of 55
percent on an annual basis by the end of 1993.
4.     Since the middle of 1993, the Government has made major strides in reestablishing
overall fiscal and monetary control. The fiscal deficit, exclusive of grants, fell to 2.6
percent of GDP in 1994/95 and money supply growth decelerated to below 15 percent as
of the end of 1995 (see Figure 1). However, while the Government has achieved
considerable success in tightening fiscal and monetary policy at the macro level, it has
been less successful in controlling public expenditure allocations. During the last couple
years, the Government undertook a number of "extraordinary expenditures" (i.e., the
purchase of a Presidential airplane and the construction of an airport at Eldoret) which
were not explicitly included in the budget and had not been subjected to normal
Parliamentary review for consistency with overall spending priorities. In addition, the
Government has had to deal with the unanticipated budgetary consequences of policy
decisions taken in other areas, e.g., the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB)
purchases in 1994/95 of substantial quantities of maize at above prevailing market prices.
The effect of these actions was to force the Governrnent to raise additional revenues,
thereby contributing to the already high fiscal burden (Government revenues were 31.6
percent of GDP in 1994/95), or find offsetting cuts in recurrent and development
expenditures to stay close to fiscal deficit targets discussed with the IMF.
Figure 1: Fscal Deflcit and ney Groiwth
30                                1 2
30 , ,., . ....................~~~~~.. . ..   . . . . . . . . ..1
25                                10
20 I                              8
15  -. ... :: x.;.-,-6:
l^                                4      -U-Broad Money (M3)
5                                2
0                                0         - Fiscal Deficit excl. official
transfers
YEAR
5.    Program. Duning the 1996-98 period the Government intends to continue overall
fiscal and monetary adjustment. The fiscal deficit (exclusive of grants) is expected to be
I The Kenyan fiscal year runs from July I to June 30 of the following year.



- 3 -
only 1.9 percent of GDP for the current fiscal year and to decline to 1.5 percent of GDP
by the middle of 1998. At that level, the deficit would be fully financed by grants. To
take account of a surge in money growth late last year, monetary policy is to be tightened
considerably in the current year, with money growth by the end of the year to be
substantially below the rate of nominal income growth. It is expected that these policies
will hold domestic inflation at around 5 percent a year.
6.    The Government also intends to tighten expenditure controls to improve the
quality of expenditures. As set out in the PFP/LDP, this will involve specific commitments
at all levels of the budgetary process. At the macro level, to improve transparency, the
Government will only enter into expenditures which have been provided for in the Budget
and will inform Parliament of any new external borrowing at the start of each session. As
part of this process, the Government will publish, on a quarterly basis, budgetary outturns.
To enhance expenditure effectiveness, all contracts in excess of Ksh 10 million (equal to
less than US$ 200,000 at current exchange rates) will be publicly tendered, with the
results of Central Tender Board's decision published. In addition, all contracts in excess
of Ksh 2 million (equal to less than US$ 40,000 at current exchange rates) are to
negotiated by an inter-agency team including representatives from the Treasury and the
Audit Inspectorate. In addition, the Government has put in place a system in which
Ministries are given monthly (for recurrent expenditures) or quarterly (for development
expenditures) ceilings on expenditure commitments. These ceilings are established based
on anticipated budgetary availabilities and have as their objective the avoidance of any new
arrears. Accounting officers (who are generally the Permanent Secretaries in each
Ministry) are to adhere to these ceilings and, if they fail to do so, will be sanctioned in line
with existing regulations. A circular has been issued to Accounting Officers spelling out
the specific sanctions. In this regard, earlier this year, the Government suspended a
number of senior officials in the Kenya Revenue Authority, the customs and the Kenya
Ports Authority who were allegedly involved in a customs fraud.
7.    To enhance the credibility of the Central Bank, the Government intends to present
legislation to Parliament this June, amending the Central Bank Act to increase its
autonomy. This amendment will include provisions for the insulation of the Govemor and
the Board from outside interference and limits on the Government's access to Central
Bank credit to finance its deficit.
8.    Fiscal policy has been constrained in recent years by the high levels of domestic
debt issued to finance past fiscal deficits or to soak up excess monetary expansion
occasioned by abuse of CBK credit facilities. Between 1991 and 1994, the domestic
indebtedness of the Government (primarily Treasury bills) increased from just under Ksh
45 billion to over Ksh 100 billion. This increase, together with high nominal interest rates,
resulted in very high domestic interest payments. In 1993/94, payments of domestic
interest accounted for over 36 percent of the Govermment's ordinary revenue. This
interest burden substantially complicated government fiscal management. While this
burden has declined somewhat in recent years as nominal interest rates have fallen, interest
rates still remain, at over 20 percent for T-bills, substantially above the prevailing rate of
inflation of around 5 percent, implying very high real interest rates associated with



- 4 -
increases in net domestic indebtedness. To address this problem, the budgetary
framework envisions a net reduction of over Ksh 15 billion in domestic indebtedness over
the 1994/95-1997/98 period.
9.    Specific Government commitments as to the overall fiscal framework and
improved expenditure management are set out in its PFP/LDP. These commitments are
also included in Kenya's new three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)
arrangement approved by the IMF on April 26, 1996 and will be monitored in these
contexts.
10.   In the area of expenditure allocations, IDA undertook in 1994 a detailed public
expenditure review. This review highlighted the need to increase spending on operations
and maintenance. By the early 1990s, the ratio of operations and maintenance
expenditures to labor costs had declined to about 62 percent of the levels which prevailed
in the early 1980s. Measured in real terms, operations and maintenance expenditures per
civil servant had fallen roughly 30 percent from the early 1980s levels. In the area of
development expenditures, there was a need to rationalize investments, to avoid a
dispersion of resources across a wide array of projects, and to strengthen the project
selection criteria and the links between the Public Investment Program (PIP) prepared by
the Planning Ministry and the annual Budget, prepared by the Finance Ministry.
11.   As follow-up to this review, IDA and the Government have been discussing
expenditure priorities and the results of these discussions are reflected in the PFP/LDP. In
these documents, the Government has indicated its intention to provide adequate funding
for the basic functions of government: the maintenance of law and order and the
administration ofjustice; the financing of broad-based education and health services; the
provision of economic infrastructure, the support of agricultural research and extension;
and the protection of the environment. Within the recurrent budget, there is to be a
continued reallocation in favor of operations and maintenance. In spite of budgetary
stringency, GOK-funded ordinary recurrent expenditures, exclusive of interest payments,
wages and salaries and special programs, have increased from less than Ksh 20 billion in
1993/94 to around Ksh 29 billion in the current fiscal year. In the development budget,
the Government has agreed to provide full-funding for all "core" projects and ensure that
at least 75 percent of the development budget is allocated to projects in the core functional
areas of government. Consistent with this, in spite of cutbacks necessitated by the need to
adjust for the extraordinary expenditures cited in para. 4, overall development
expenditures (foreign plus domestic financed) are expected to increase 14 percent this
fiscal year over last. In addition, the Government will improve project selection criteria
and all new projects will be reviewed before inclusion in the PIP. No project will be
included in the budget for funding which has not been reviewed for the PIP.



- 5 -
Box 1: Public Expenditure Allocation: Government of Kenya Performance
Over the last two years, the Government has sought to improve expenditure allocations. In this
regard, the focus has been on two aspects: to increase the funding for core projects in the Public
Investment Program (PIP); and to increase the share of the development and recurrent budgets
going to core functional areas. While the Government has made some progress, much more
remains to be done. Core projects remain under-funded. In the Revised Budget for 1994/95, core
projects received only 55 percent of their full funding requirements as set out in the PIP. Although
data and definitional problems caution against taking this ratio literally, it does nevertheless
highlight one of the main problems of public expenditures in Kenya. At the root of this problem is
the large number of projects, and the failure to achieve a significant reduction in the number
through rationalization and to subject new projects to a rigorous vetting procedure. These will be
areas of special emphasis in our continuing work with the Government on public expenditures. As
regard allocations to the core functional areas, in the Development Budget there has been a steady
increase in the proportion of funds allocated to these areas. In 1993/94 these areas accounted for
56 percent of the total development expenditures; by 1994/95 this proportion had increased to 78
percent. However, progress in the allocation of recurrent expenditures, particularly operations and
maintenance, has been slower. In the 1993/94 Budget, core functional areas accounted for 32
percent of all operations and maintenance expenditures. This percentage had only increased to 36
percent in the 1994/95 Budget.
12.   In the PFP/LDP, the Government requested that, in collaboration with IDA, a
wide-ranging review of public expenditures be undertaken early this year, to provide the
basis for specific spending decisions in the upcoming budgets. This review has been
completed and agreement reached on spending allocations for the 1996/97 budget to be
presented to Parliament. These allocations are designed to enhance the quality of public
expenditures generally and, more specifically, their impact on the disadvantaged. They
include an increase in expenditures on Operations and Maintenance, in order to reverse the
trend cited in para. 10 above. As part of this effort, the Government has agreed to
increase road maintenance expenditures by over 17 percent over 1995/96 levels, in line
with its commitment to achieve full funding of road maintenance requirements by the year
2000. The Government also has agreed to increase funding for social programs targeted
on the poor and disadvantaged. At the primary level, this includes increased funding for
the school feeding program and the program for provision of school equipment to poor
and disadvantaged areas. In addition, the Government has agreed to put in place a new
financial support program, targeted at girls in disadvantaged areas, to encourage increased
enrollment at the primary level. At the secondary level, the Government has agreed to
large increases in the existing scholarship program. In the health area, the Government
intends to increase the share of Ministry of Health's recurrent budget going to preventive
care (i.e., preventive medicine, and promotive health care and rural health services).
Finally, the Government has agreed to regular development expenditures (i.e., not
including any "extraordinary expenditures") at 7 percent of GDP and to substantially
increase funding for core development projects. Implementation of the agreed allocations



- 6 -
and agreement on budget allocations for the 1997/98 budget is a condition for second
tranche release of the SAC.
R Parastatal Reform
13.   Overview. The parastatal sector is a substantial drag on the Kenyan economy. In
the past this has been most evident in the sizable transfers the Government had to make on
behalf of parastatals. These transfers occurred directly (primarily through Government
funding of investment costs and operating subsidies) and indirectly (primarily through
below market interest rates and fiscal exemptions). The total value of direct and indirect
subsidies was estimated at Ksh 8.6 billion in 1991/92, i. e., greater than the domestic
counterpart for the development budget in that year. However, these subsidies understate
the real costs of the public sector in that several of the key parastatals (the port and the
telecommunications company) were able to exploit their monopoly position and pass on
some of their higher costs to consumers. Under a broader measure, IDA has estimated
that if the public sector firms operated at the same level of efficiency as private sector
firms, Kenyan growth would have been 2 percentage points higher each year.
14.   The Government has sought to address this problem in recent years with the
support of IDA through its Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance
Credit. To improve financial discipline it has attempted to limit key parastatals access to
the Treasury. While it has had some success in reducing the level of direct subsidies,
parastatals continue to benefit from Government financing of guaranteed external debt
payments (an estimated Ksh 2.2 billion this year) and the Government has had to make
large payments to cover arrears to farmers resulting from excessive maize purchases by
NCPB. The Government has had more success in privatization of public enterprises. Out
of an original list of 211 "non-strategic" enterprises slated for privatization, the
Government had by the beginning of this year divested its holdings in over half.2 In
addition, the Government was in the process of divesting its holdings in another six
enterprises, including Kenya Airways in which the Government had sold 26 percent of its
holdings to KLM and was preparing to sell another 51 percent in the Nairobi Stock
Exchange. However, most of the other privatizations involved the exercise of preemption
rights by existing shareholders and the privatization process has been criticized for lack of
transparency. By contrast, reform of the key parastatals (NCPB, Kenya Ports Authority
(KPA), Kenya Railways (KR), Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(KPTC), and Kenya Power and Lighting Corporation (KPLC)) has progressed very
slowly. In addition, while strictly speaking not a parastatal, the National Social Security
Fund (NSSF) is a growing threat to financial stability as it has been engaged in numerous
questionable investments.
2 Divestiture includes both liquidation and privatization. Privatization is defined as the reduction in
Govermment shareholdings to less than 30 percent in the enterprise. In most cases, privatization has
involved reducing the GOK holding to zero.



- 7 -
Box 2: Financial Performance of Key Parastatals
The weak performance of the major parastatals is most evident in their inability to meet their
obligations. Their behavior in this regard is set out below in terms of the changes in their net cash
positions, i.e., the difference between total receipts and expenditures.
Net Cash Position
(Ksh million)
1992/93              1993/94              1994/95
KPLC                        -150                  -105                 2389
KPTC                        -147                   124                 -888
KR                          -106                  -180                 -312
NCPB                         1806                 864                  -525
KPA                          1410                 1240                  202
As shown in the table, the key parastatals (with the exception of KPA) have in recent years not
been consistently able to cover their obligations. The resulting cash deficits have been covered by
the Government paying external obligations, either through the accumulation of arrears on tax
obligations owed the Government or through overdraft facilities accorded by commercial banks.
The deterioration in KPA's performance in 1994/95 is the result of sizable purchases made of
spare parts under less than totally transparent procedures. It should be noted that these figures
overstate actual performance as they do not take into account the low levels of investment
undertaken by the parastatals, notably KPLC, KPTC and KPA, during this period. These low
levels are reflected in lower cash outlays for the years in question, but represent the deferral of
essential works which ultimately must be paid for. Effectively, during this period the parastatals
were at best able to cover their obligations, but had little or no capacity for sustained self-financing
of investment. The recent improvement in KPLC's financial perfomuance reflects the impact of the
tariff increase in March 1994, an action taken to enhance its self-financing capacity.
15.   Program. The Government intends to accelerate the pace of structural reform
over the 1996-98 period. To this end, it will undertake a series of specific actions in the
areas of privatization, institutional oversight and reform of key parastatals.
16.   Privatization. The Government has committed to divesting its holdings in the
remaining 96 non-strategic parastatals by the end of 1997. Consistent with this objective,
the Government has agreed on a divestiture progran covering at least 40 enterprises in
1996, of which 20 are to be completed by June. In the first quarter of the year, the
Government had divested 9 firms, including Kenya Airways and its two subsidiaries,
through successful floatation of 51 percent of its shares in the Nairobi Stock Exchange.
The Government will also initiate work this year on the divestiture of three parastatals
formerly designated as strategic: Nyayo Buses Corporation, Kenya Pipeline Corporation
and Kenya Refinery Corporation. Increased emphasis will be placed on divestiture



- 8 -
through competitive procedures. Of the privatizations envisioned for this year, roughly
fifteen are expected to occur through competitive bidding or stock floatation, roughly
equal to the total number of competitive transactions to date. To facilitate this process,
the Government intends to contract out a significant amount of the preparatory work
involved in these transactions. To increase transparency, firms to be privatized through
competitive bidding will be advertised and selection criteria will be specified in advance,
bids will be publicly opened and the results will be published indicating the terms of sale.
In addition, quarterly reports are to be prepared on implementation of the privatization
program and privatization proceeds will be audited on a semi-annual basis and the results
of these audits will be made public. Satisfactory implementation of the agreed
privatization program for 1996 and agreement on the privatization program for 1997 will
be a condition for second tranche release.
17.   Major Parastatals. Over the 1996-98 period, the Government intends to
implement major restructuring programs for each of the major parastatals. These
programs are tailored to the specific situations of each of the enterprises and include such
actions as divestiture of functions, increased contracting out of activities to the private
sector and opening up of capital through direct investment. In addition, the Government
will eliminate the remaining implicit subsidies enjoyed by parastatals by charging market
rates for use of Government-owned land, applying a 2 percent guarantee fee to any new
loan guarantees provided by the Government, requiring the parastatals to remain current
on their existing obligations and to repay outstanding arrears owed the Government over
the next three years. The objective is to increase the efficiency of these enterprises by
increased private sector involvement and requiring them to operate on the same terms as
private sector enterprises.
18.   National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). NCPB originally had a monopoly
on the purchase and sales of maize in Kenya and played the central role in maize pricing
and distribution. Two years ago the maize market was liberalized, and there are currently
a number of private traders active in Kenya. However, NCPB's role in this new
environment has not been clearly specified and it continues to have the staff and
infrastructure consistent with its original role of sole maize trader. This ambiguity has led
to periodic episodes where NCPB intervened in the maize market, incurring substantial
financial obligations and disrupting the development of private trading activity. In
1994/95 NCPB intervened heavily in the maize market, purchasing roughly 5 million bags
of maize (equivalent to about 30 percent of total marketed production) at above market
prices. In this process, NCPB accumulated substantial arrears to farmers and substantially
disrupted the market. In the wake of this development, the Government has decided to
commercialize NCPB by the end of this year, at which time it is to operate free of all
outside interference. This will imply that any activity undertaken by NCPB on behalf of
the Government will be undertaken on a fee for service basis, thus reducing a major source
of expenditure slippage in the past. With assistance from IDA, the Government has
prepared a draft contract on the basis of which it intends to engage an outside consulting
firm to assist it in carrying out the commercialization. Bids have been sought from these
firms and it is expected that the selected firm will be in place by the first part of July.



- 9 -
Successful implementation of the commercialization program would be a condition for
second tranche release.
19.   Kenya Ports Authority (KPA). KPA is responsible for the operations of the Port
of Mombasa which handles the bulk of Kenya's imports and exports as well as serving the
central African countries. However, KPA's operating efficiency is well below
intemational standards, imposing significant costs on Kenyan producers and consumers.
The efficiency of the port has been affected by lack of spare parts and inadequate
maintenance, even though substantial amounts of money have been spent on spare parts
and maintenance contracts, with adverse effects on its financial situation and future
prospects (see Box 2). Confronted with this problem, the Government has decided to
take drastic action in order to improve port management and efficiency. First, it has
replaced KPA management with outside managers drawn from port users. Second, it is
seeking an outside operator to take over the management and operation of the container
terminal, where most of the cargo is handled. Terms of reference for a contract to this end
have been prepared and invitations to bid to potential outside operators have been issued.
Third, it is renegotiating the maintenance contracts to reduce their duration and to
establish performance guarantees and penalties. Finally, it intends to sign a performance
contract with KPA to set out mutually agreed obligations. Signature of the contract with
an outside operator to operate and manage the container terminal and signature of a
performance contract acceptable to IDA is a condition for second tranche release.
20.   Kenya Railways Corporation (KR). Kenya Railways is a key component in the
transport chain linking the port to the interior. While the freight part of its operation is
potentially profitable, passenger service is not, resulting in poor financial performance. In
addition, KR's technical performance is sub-standard, largely because of low levels of
locomotive availability. A significant part of the existing fleet needs upgrading and
maintenance, which to date is handled in house, is unsatisfactory. KR has been seeking to
improve its financial performance by a program of staff reductions, financed by land sales.
However, its long-term viability depends on shedding loss making services and
contracting out maintenance of locomotives, which will in turn require sizable upfront
investments to rehabilitate the existing locomotives. KR management has prepared a
restructuring plan calling for separation of passenger and freight operations, the
elimination of loss making lines in the absence of Government subsidies, the divestiture of
certain non-core services and the contracting out of locomotive maintenance. This paper
has been approved by Cabinet, clearing the way for implementation of the program which
if successively implemented would improve KR's efficiency and establish it on a self-
sustaining basis. Signature of the locomotive maintenance contracts is a condition for
second tranche release.
21.   Kenya Posts and Telecommunications (KPTC). KPTC is presently the only
purveyor of telecommunications services in Kenya. In spite of its monopoly position,
KPTC's financial performance is poor and it has been unable to undertake needed
investments to improve the quality and extent of service delivery, resulting in situation in
which the Kenyan consumer pays high prices for a relatively poor quality service.



- 10-
Improving this situation requires an approach which will simultaneously increase KPTC
efficiency and provide greater competition in the provision of telecommunications
services. IDA has been working with the Government on a major sector program
involving legislative changes to increase management accountability and efficiency,
enterprise restructuring and opening up of capital, and sector liberalization. The main
features of this program involve the splitting of KPTC into three separate entities (a
telecommunications company, KTC; a postal company, PCK; and a regulatory authority,
CCK), the shedding of non-core functions, the opening up to outside investors of at least
30 percent of the capital in KTC and the subsequent opening up of the domestic market
to other operators, on a regional basis. In addition, the Government will enter into a joint
venture arrangement for cellular phones; however, the timing of the licensing of a second
cellular operator has not been agreed upon. The Government is in the process of
implementing this program. The Cabinet has approved the proposed KPTC restructuring
and privatization program. Draft legislation for the separation of KPTC has been prepared
and will be submitted to Parliament shortly and the Government has liberalized some
services, notably pay phones. Completion of the split of KPTC into three separate
entities, opening up to outside investors of at least 30 percent of KTC's capital and
agreement on the terms of licensing of a second cellular operator are conditions for second
tranche release.
22.   Kenya Power and Lighting Corporation (KPLC). Like the telecommunications
sector, the energy sector is suffering from years of low investment. To meet growing
demands, it has been estimated that over US$1 billion in new investment should be
initiated over the next five years, some of which must necessarily come from private
investors. However, for new investment to be feasible the sector as a whole, which is split
between several different power generation companies and a single distribution company
all of them Government-owned, needs to be rationalized to permit a clearer appreciation
of actual cost levels. In addition, to generate internal funds for the needed investment and
to encourage the entry of private investment in electricity generation, electricity tariff rates
need to be increased to cover fully Long Run Marginal Costs (LRMC). IDA has been
discussing with the Government a sectoral reform program involving enterprise
restructuring to increase efficiency and enhance self-financing capacities, and which could
be the basis for an eventual IDA investment credit. The Government is in the process of
implementing this program and, to this end, recently announced an increase in electricity
tariff rates designed to bring the average price of electricity up to at least 75 percent of
LRMC. In addition, bids are to be issued shortly to independent private producers to
invest in power generation in Kenya. The proposed SAC would reinforce these efforts by
supporting key policy-level reforms. The conclusion of performance contracts with all
existing power sector companies, and agreement with IDA on the timing of the adjustment
of the average electricity tariff to 100 percent of LRMC are conditions for second tranche
release.
23.   National Social Security Fund (NSSF). The NSSF provides pension benefits to
non-government employees. However, contributors do not play any role in selecting fund
management which has been engaged in a number of investments of questionable
advisability. In addition, the fund has not released audited accounts, making oversight



- 11 -
impossible. The Government has decided to rectify this situation by converting the NSSF
into an autonomous pension fund, controlled by its contributors, by the end of this year.
IDA has assisted the Government in preparing the necessary legislation and the putting in
place improved accounting systems as well as in the preparation of a proper actuarial
assessment. While awaiting this conversion, NSSF has been instructed to limit its new
investments to Government securities only, with the exception of 15 percent of its assets
to be maintained in sound and stable financial institutions. The submission of legislation
for the conversion of NSSF into an autonomous pension fund is a condition for release of
the second tranche.
24.   Institutional. Progress in parastatal reform has been hampered in the past by weak
institutional oversight. The Department of Government Investments and Public
Enterprises (DGIPE) in the Treasury has been responsible for the implementation of the of
the restructuring program and the Executive Secretariat Technical Unit (ESTU) has been
charged with implementation of the privatization program. ESTU has recently been
brought under the authority of the head of DGIPE. However, both DGIPE and ESTU
have been under-staffed, which has limited their effectiveness. ESTU and DGIPE are
currently in the process of recruiting competent new staff. In addition, public enterprises
have in principle little administrative autonomy, as many of their operational decisions
(e.g., employment conditions) are governed by the State Corporations Act. This has
meant that in cases where major restructuring changes are being implemented, e.g., Kenya
Airways, that exemption from the provisions of the Act must be sought.. To facilitate the
necessary rationalization changes outlined above the Government has exempted KPA,
KPTC, KPLC, NCPB and Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) from provisions of the State
Corporations Act
C Civil Service Reform
25.   Overview. Civil service wages and salaries represent over 33 percent of the
Government's ordinary revenue. With the fiscal effort, already relatively high, providing
additional resources for increased operations and maintenance and development
expenditures in a context of lower budget deficits implies restraining the growth in the
civil service wage bill. However, civil service salaries, particularly at senior levels, are not
high relative to private sector salaries; the problem lies more in the large number of civil
servants, currently over 230,000 not counting over 225,000 teachers. Similarly, the
economic reforms of recent years have appreciably changed the roles and functions of
many of the major ministries, which need to be reexamined in this light. There is thus a
need for simultaneously controlling civil service expenditures and increasing civil service
efficiency through the rationalization of ministries in conformity with their current
functions.
26.   Since 1993, the Government has been engaged in a wide ranging civil service
reform program which IDA has supported through an Institutional Development and Civil
Service Reform Project. This program is set out in three phases. In the first phase, the
emphasis is on cost containment through staffing rationalization and improved



- 12 -
establishment control. To this end, the Government has put in place a program Voluntary
Early Retirement Scheme (VERS) focusing on the lowest grade levels where over-
employment is the most evident. The VERS has to date been funded entirely by the
Government. Departures through natural attrition and the VERS program have resulted
in a gross reduction in the civil service of 40,213 between July 1993 and December 1995.
However, these reductions were offset by the recruitment during this period of 6,700 new
civil servants, primarily in the areas of security and health; as a result the total number of
civil servants, which had been 266,054 in July 1993, had fallen to 232,541 as of the end of
1995. Work has also been initiated on the development of staffing norms and the
rationalization of key ministries. Action plans for the rationalization of the Ministries of
Health (MOH) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
(MOALDM) have been developed and implementation is currently underway. Work has
commenced on the development of rationalization plans for another four ministries, the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Lands and Settlements (MOLS), the Ministry
of Public Works and Housing (MOPWH), and the Ministry of Land Reclamation,
Regional and Water Development (MLRRWD).
27.   Program. The Government will continue to pursue the program of staff reduction
with the objective of reducing staff by an average of 16,000 per year over the period 1996
to July 1997 through natural attrition, the continuation of the VERS scheme and position
rationalization. During this same period, new hires will be limited to no more than 4,500
(1,500 between January to July 1996 and 3,000 between July 1996 to June 1997). It is
expected that these measures will bring the overall civil service size down to 212,361 by
July 1997, i.e., a reduction of over 20 percent in the size of the civil service since July
1993. To take account of shortages of certain skilled staff, civil service reductions after
July 1997 will be determined in light of the results of the staffing norms study and the
ministerial rationalization plans. Implementation of the agreed civil service reduction
program and agreement on a program of staff reductions after July 1997 are conditions for
release of the second tranche of the SAC.
28.   The Government expects to complete the rationalization plans for MOH and
MOALDM by the end of this year and the rationalization plans for the other four
ministries are expected to be completed by July 1997. In July of this year, the
Government will select six additional ministries for rationalization; the restructuring of
these ministries is expected to be completed by the end of 1998. Implementation of the
ministerial rationalization plans for MOH and MOALDM, the development of
rationalization plans for four other ministries and agreement on the six other ministries for
rationalization are conditions for second tranche release of the SAC.
PART II: RELATION WITH COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
29.   As set out in Board document KE-15254, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
for Kenya has as its objective to assist the Government in the reduction of poverty through
accelerated economic growth and employment generation. To achieve this objective, the



- 13 -
strategy aims at: improving public sector efficiency, enhancing human capital
development, promoting an efficient private sector, improving environmental management
and targeting interventions for the disadvantaged. The program outlined above focuses on
the first of these priorities, improving public sector management. As set out, the program
would improve fiscal discipline, enhance the quality of public expenditures through
expenditure reallocations and civil service reform, and increase efficiency through
privatization and restructuring of public enterprises. Thus, implementation of the program
is an integral component of the overall strategy of poverty reduction through accelerated
economic growth.
30.   The proposed program has been prepared in close collaboration with the
International Monetary Fund. It is drawn from the Government's PFP, which was
developed jointly with the IMF and the Government and which is the basis for the new
three-year, US$ 216 million Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility Arrangement
approved by the Fund Board on April 26. Many of the elements of the program also
figure in the new ESAF Arrangement.
PART m: THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. Objectives and Size of the Proposed SAC
31.   The proposed SAC of US$ 126.8 million equivalent (including US$ 36.8 million in
IDA reflows) would be disbursed in two tranches. With the approval of the SAC, new
IDA commitments to Kenya this year would consist of four credits totaling US$ 277
million, not counting the IDA reflows. This level is slightly above the high case for
lending set out in the CAS (US$ 250 million). However, IDA lending this year includes
two credits (totaling US$ 166 million) which had been scheduled for presentation in FY
95 and which Bank management decided to defer in April of last year because of
economic governance concerns. The Government commnitments outlined in para. 6 above
address these concerns and these projects were approved on January 30, 1996. For the
period FY 97-99, new IDA commitments are expected to average about US$ 230 million
per year, consistent with base case lending of US$ 195-235 million per year set out in the
CAS.
Macroeconomic Framework
32.   The proposed SAC will support the Government's medium term reform program
which has as objective consolidating of Kenya's fiscal and balance of payments situations
and an accelerating of real growth to 6 percent per year by the end of the period. The
reform program, if successfully implemented, would set the stage for subsequent
attainment of real growth rates in excess of 6 percent per year, which are needed for
sustained reduction in poverty in Kenya. A key aspect of this progran is the adjustment in
Kenya's external and internal (fiscal) balances to sustainable levels, thus permitting higher
rates of growth in the medium term without recourse to exceptional financing. The
framework for this external and internal adjustment is set out in the PFP/LDP, which is the



- 14-
basis for the proposed credit as well as the recently approved three-year ESAF
arrangement.
External Adjustment
33.   The macroeconomic framework underpinning the reform program foresees a
further reduction in Kenya's external balances. From a current account deficit (exclusive
of grants) last year equal to 4.2 percent of GDP, the current account deficit is projected to
decline to 0.8 percent of GDP by 1998. At this level, the current account would be in
surplus if grants are included, implying sustainability over the medium term (see Annex
E). As part of this adjustment to a sustainable external position, there is a need to
strengthen Kenya's external reserve position (gross reserves were equal to only 1.6
months of exports of goods and services in 1995) and to repay relatively large amounts of
non-concessional falling due between now and the year 2000. Part of this adjustment is
expected to be met through an improvement in Kenya's external resource balance,
reflecting the impact of the policy reforms. In the capital account, increased
disbursements of project lending are expected; however, the combination of relatively
heavy debt amortization payments and the need to increase reserves results in some
balance of payments financing requirements if the projected current account adjustment is
to occur without unduly compressing import growth, which is projected to increase in real
terms only 6 percent over the 1996-98 period.
34.   These projected needs are expected to be largely met by the new three-year ESAF
program and the proposed SAC, together with continued disbursements of already
committed balance of payments support from bilateral donors. There would remain very
small residual balance of payments gaps, on the order of US$ 55 million per year over the
1996-98 period, which are expected to be filled by additional commitments of balance of
payments support from donors. Under these assumptions, Kenya would, by end-1998,
have attained a reserve coverage, measured in terms of months of imports of goods and
services, of just over 3 months and with a substantially improved debt profile. Its external
debt to GDP ratio would have declined to just over 80 percent and its debt service would
be equal to just over 23 percent of exports of goods.
Box 3: Debt Sustainability
As of end-1995, the present value of Kenya's debt service payments was less than 200
percent of export earnings, i.e., below the threshold above which debt sustainability is
problematic. Under the external adjustment scenario outlined above in which non-
concessional debt is substantially reduced and exports grow, Kenya's debt burden should
improve significantly. Under this scenario the present value of debt service to exports
ratio is projected to decline to about 100 percent by 1998 Thus, assuming implementation
of the reform program, Kenya's debt is expected to be sustainable over the medium term.



- 15 -
Fiscal Adjustment
35.   The reform program foresees a continued consolidation of the Government's fiscal
position. The fiscal deficit, measured exclusive of grants, is projected to decline from 2.6
percent of GDP in FY 94/95 to 1.5 percent of GDP by FY 97/98. As part of this fiscal
consolidation, domestic debt levels would be reduced by Ksh 15.6 billion, thus easing
pressure on real interest rates, which are currently over 15 percent for new Government
debt. These high real interest rates reflect, in part, a risk premium associated with
uncertainties about Government commitment to prudent macroeconomic management.
The projected fiscal consolidation is expected to substantially reduce this uncertainty,
giving rise to lower interest rates.
36.   With revenue levels in Kenya already over 30 percent of GDP, the fiscal
adjustment is to occur through expenditure restriction. However, in light of the need to
increase operations and maintenance and development expenditures, this implies a
substantial reordering of expenditure priorities in the context of this overall restriction. As
set out in Table 1 below, the projected fiscal adjustment is expected to occur through a
sharp reduction in the relative GDP share of recurrent expenditures while development
expenditures increase slightly. (Development expenditures in FY 95/96 reflect the impact
of the "extraordinary expenditures" cited in para. 4 above; adjusting for these,
development expenditures would be just over 7 percent of GDP.) However, to meet
operations and maintenance needs, which have suffered in recent years, the fiscal
framework foresees a sharp increase in non-wage, non-interest recurrent expenditures,
which are projected to increase from 7.6 percent of GDP to roughly 10 percent.
Table 1: Fiscal Framework
(% of GDP)
FY94/9S        FY95/96         FY96/97         FY97/98
Revenues and         33.1           35.6            33.6            32.3
grants
Total recurrent     26.4            27.8            25.6            24.3
- wages              10.8           10.8            10.5            9.9
-interest            8.0             7.3            5.4             4.5
-other               7.6             9.6            9.8             9.9
Development          7.8             8.1             7.7            8.0
and net lending



- 16 -
37.   A key feature of this fiscal scenario is the programmed reduction in high cost
domestic debt to permit increases in spending in other critical areas while permitting a
reduction in the overall fiscal deficit to sustainable levels. However, for this net repayment
to occur, there needs to be adequate levels of external program financing on concessional
terms. The counterpart from the SAC, roughly Ksh 7 billion over the FY 95/96 and FY
96/97 period, would provide part of the concessional program support envisioned as part
of the fiscal adjustment scenario. In the absence of the SAC counterpart funds, to sustain
the assumed fiscal adjustment the Government would need to either borrow more
domestically at exceptionally high real interest rates, thereby slowing down the assumed
reduction in domestic interest rates, or cut back on the projected increases in operations
and maintenance and development expenditures, thereby undermining its longer term
objectives.
Structure of the Credit
38.   To support the attainment of these external and internal objectives, the proposed
SAC would be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of the SAC, US$ 81.8 million
equivalent and consisting of US$ 45 million equivalent together with Kenya's FY96 IDA
reflow allocation of US$ 36.8 million equivalent, would be disbursed upon credit
effectiveness. The second tranche of US$ 45 million equivalent would be disbursed upon
evidence of satisfactory implementation of the overall reform program, including a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework, and the fulfillment of specific conditions relating
to improved public sector management. The medium term nature of the program and the
reforms to be implemented, together with the Government's satisfactory overall economic
performance since mid- 1993, argues for commitment of IDA support over the program
period to enhance the sustainability of the program.
39.   Second Tranche. Release of the second tranche of the SAC would take place after
the Government had completed the following actions:
General
* Made satisfactory progress in overall implementation of the program,
including a satisfactory macroeconomic framework (as evidenced by the
existence of an active ESAF arrangement).
Public Resource Management
* Executed the 1996/97 budget consistent with agreed allocations and agreed
with IDA on budgetary allocations for the 1997/98 budget.
Parastatal Reform
*  Satisfactorily executed agreed privatization programn in 1996 and agreed with
IDA on the privatization program for 1997.



- 17 -
*  Satisfactorily implemented NCPB commercialization program.
*  Signed a contract with outside operator for the operation and management of
the container terminal at KPA and signed a performance contract satisfactory
to IDA with KPA.
*  Signed contracts with private operators for locomotive maintenance (KR).
*  Completed split of KPTC into three separate entities, offered to outside
investors at least 30 percent of the KTC capital, and agreed with IDA on
timing of licensing of a second cellular phone operator.
  Signed performance contracts with all power sector companies and agreed
with IDA on the timing of the adjustment of the average electricity tariff to
100 percent of LRMC (KPLC).
* Submitted to Parliament legislation satisfactory to IDA to convert NSSF into
an autonomous pension fund.
Civil Service Reform
*  Satisfactorily implemented agreed civil service reduction program and agreed
with IDA on a program of staff reductions after July 1997.
*  Implemented rationalization plans for MOH and MOALDM, developed
rationalization plans for MOF, MOLS, MOPWH and MLRRWD, and
selected, in consultation with IDA, six other ministries for rationalization.
a Procurement and Disbursement
40.   Procurement and disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures
approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an account in the
Central Bank of Kenya. Upon IDA notification of tranche release, proceeds of the credit
will be deposited by IDA in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in
this account, the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance
items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard negative
list), IDA will require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use
for eligible purposes or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will
cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although a routine audit of the
account of the account will not be required, IDA reserves the right to require it.
C Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision
41.   The Ministry of Finance will be directly responsible for implementation of the
program. The overall reforn program which is the basis for the LDP (i.e., Economic



- 18 -
Reform for 1996-98: The Policy Framework Paper) has been published by the
Government and is to be overseen by a Presidential Economic Commission, chaired by the
President and including representatives from the implementing ministries (i.e., Finance,
Office of the President, Agriculture, Commerce and Industry, and Central Bank) as well as
the private sector and press. The publication of the program, the creation of the
Commission and the inclusion of non-governmental representatives are intended to ensure
Government commitment to successful implementation of the program. For its part, the
IDA will intensively supervise the Credit and is expecting to allocate a total of 27 staff
weeks for supervision in FY 96/97. This will be in addition to on-going supervision of the
Parastatal and Civil Service Reform Projects which will serve to support the achievement
of the objectives of the reform program.
D. Performance Indicators
42.   Based on commitments in the PFP and LDP, understandings have been reached
with the Government on key indicators and anticipated outcomes which would be
monitored as part of the supervision of the Credit (see Table 2). These will be used to
evaluate the overall success of the reform program in achieving the objective of
establishing the conditions for sustainable levels of growth to reduce poverty and
improving the situation of the disadvantaged. The indicators, together with their
expected outcomes, have been selected taking into account certain criteria. First, the
indicators and associated outcomes are to a maximum degree quantifiable. Second, the
relatively short time period of the reform program has meant focusing on only those
outcomes which are likely to be effected during the course of the program.
43.   Under the heading of public resource management, close attention will be paid to
the fiscal deficit (measured exclusive of grants). By maintaining the deficit at 2 percent or
less of GDP, the Govermment will keep the deficit within levels of available intemal and
extemal financing, avoiding recourse to inflationary monetary growth. Within this deficit
ceiling, there will be a need to enhance the quality of expenditures by increasing spending
on key operations and maintenance activities and development expenditures. In the area
of operations and maintenance, increased expenditures on road maintenance are expected
to encourage domestic production by decreasing transport costs. Increased non-wage
expenditures at the primary school level for the school feeding program and the supply of
school material and the putting in place of a new financial support scheme to cover
primary school fees for young girls in disadvantaged areas are expected to increase school
enrollment rates, which have fallen off in recent years. An expansion of the existing
secondary school scholarship program will address the problem of the sharp decline in
enrollment rates between primary and secondary levels. Increasing the share of the health
budget for preventive and rural health care services is expected to lead to an improvement
in overall health conditions. In the area of development expenditures, sustaining
development spending at least at 7 percent of GDP will lay the basis for expanding
economic activity. For public enterprises, improving the operating position of the key
parastatals will enable them to reduce their dependence on limited Govermment resources,
freeing these resources for more critical expenditures. Similarly, an acceleration in the



- 19-
Table 2: Selected Performance Indicators
Policy                 Intermediate Indicator          Outcome Indicators
Public Resource Management
Fiscal Deficit                Maintain fiscal deficit at less  Inflation at 5 percent or less
than 2 percent of GDP
Expenditure Allocations
-   increase expenditures on  -- increase expenditures on road  Increase   agricultural   and
operations and maintenance    maintenance                    industrial output
-- increase non-wage recurrent Increase    gross    primary
expenditures    at    primary  enrollment rate, particularly of
education level and financing of girls
financial support scheme
--   increase  allocations  for  Increase gross secondary school
scholarships at secondary school enrollments
level
-- increase share of recurrent Improvement  in  health  of
health budget going to preventive  population
care
-   increase   development maintain         development Increase real growth in GDP
expenditures       (excluding  expenditures at 7 percent of GDP
extraordinary expenditures)   or more
B. Public Enterprises
Major Parastatals             Improvement   in   operating  Decrease   in    Government
balance of five major parastatals  payments on behalf of parastatals
(KPTC, KPA, KPLC, KR and
NCPB)
Privatization                 Complete   privatization    of Increase private investment
original 211 enterprises by end
1997
C. Civil Service Program
Civil service wage bill       Reduce size of civil service  Keep ratio of wages and salaries
Ito GDP at 10.5 prcent or less
privatization program is expected to lead to an overall increase in private investment. In
the area of civil service reform, the reduction in the size of the civil service will enable the
Government to improve civil service remuneration while not increasing the burden of the
civil service on the budget.



- 20 -
E. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
44.   Successful implementation of the adjustment program would set the stage for
Kenya to move to a higher level growth path permitting sustainable reductions in poverty
and unemployment. Internally, the fiscal adjustment process will have been completed
Box 4: Five Questions for Higher Impact Adjustment Lending
1.    What is the demonstrated commitment of the Government to the program and/or
operation.
program has been widely discussed within the Government, endorsed by the President and has
been published, and non-government representatives have been appointed to the Commission
monitoring execution of the program; numerous actions have already been taken prior to
approval of the Credit
2.    What is the country specific evidential basis for the proposed structural reforms,
including their impact on the poor?
the 1995 Poverty Assessment highlights the importance of acceleration of growth as a necessary
condition for reduction in poverty; public sector inefficiency is one of the main constraints to
faster growth; specific actions draw  upon findings of other IDA work:  CEM-Kenya
Employment Growth for Poverty Alleviation (1993), and on-going PER
3.    Are too many institutional development aspects of public, privatization and financial
system reform being loaded on to the adjustment operation?
necessary institutional development support is already provided for in existing IDA parastatal
and civil service reform credits; SAC willfocus on implementation ofpolicy-level commitment
4.    Are there explicit measures on the level and composition of the fiscal balance?
proposed SAC is set in a medium term fiscal framework with explicit fiscal targets to be
monitored through an IMFESAFarrangement; expenditure composition to be addressed directly
by the SAC
5.    What would happen to the macro resource gaps if one or more of the tranches were
held up?
the adjustment program is to consolidate improvement in external and internal imbalances to
lay the basis for higher growth; delay in tranche release would postpone but not necessarily
derail achievement of these objectives



- 21 -
with the fiscal deficit at levels which are sustainable over the medium term. In addition,
expenditure allocations would be more in line with medium term growth requirements,
with increased expenditures on development relative to recurrent expenditures and within
recurrent expenditures, increased expenditures on operations and maintenance. The civil
service reform is expected to be a critical aspect of this envisioned expenditure
reallocation. Implementation of the expenditure controls will ensure that the agreed
allocations are respected in terms of budget execution. Externally, the current account
deficit would be at levels which could be financed through normal capital inflows,
without recourse to extraordinary balance of payments support. The project finance levels
are quite conservative, below recent historical levels. On the supply side, the program
would increase the growth potential of the economy by reducing the impact of the
inefficient parastatal sector through an acceleration of Government withdrawal from
productive sectors and an increase in the efficiency of those firms remaining in the public
portfolio. With the conversion of NCPB and NSSF into autonomous entities, the
Government will also substantially reduce the risk that the fiscal consolidation is
undermined by unanticipated obligations.
Risks
45.   As noted in the Country Assistance Strategy, the critical problem in Kenya has not
been Government capacity to implement economic reforms but its commitment, as
evidenced by past policy reversals. While the Government has in recent years
demonstrated its ability to carry out far-reaching economic reforns, these efforts must be
supplemented, by expanding and deepening the reform agenda, if growth rates are to
attain levels sufficient to reduce poverty over the medium term. This will require a
reinforcement of Government commitment. At the same time, Kenya will be entering an
electoral cycle in 1997, with Parliamentary and Presidential elections both programmed,
with consequently higher risks of slippage and/or policy reversal.
46.   The proposed credit has been designed to take account of these risks. First, the
Government's political commitment to the program has been increased by the President's
endorsement and the publication of the PFP as well as by the creation of a monitoring
committee including non-governmental representatives. Second, the program has been
developed in close collaboration with the RMF and is closely linked with the ESAF
arrangement, increasing the overall coherence of the program. Third, the specific actions
underpinning the program have been designed to be as unambiguous as possible,
permitting a close tracking of implementation. Fourth, in the design of the program
maximum reliance has been placed on prior actions to ensure Government commitment to
the program upfront (e.g., issuing bids for contract to operate and manage the container
terminal, issuing of invitation for outside expertise for commercialization of NCPB,
legislation splitting up KPTC). In cases where prior actions are not technically feasible,
the program design has sought to ensure that irreversible actions are taken early in the
program period. Examples of these include the commercialization of NCPB and the
conversion of NSSF into an autonomous pension fund by the end of 1996.



- 22 -
47.   Nonetheless, there remains a risk of program slippage. IDA intends to monitor
closely the progress of the program and will be prepared to delay or cancel the second
tranche release as appropriate.
PART IV: RECOMMENDATION
48.   Recommendation. I amn satisfied that the proposed credit would satisfy the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
May 10, 1996



ANNEX A
KENYA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR 1996 - 1998
April 16, 1996



18 APR W6
CONTENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    INTRODUCTION                                                               1
HI.  ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE                                                        1
o     Macroeconomic and Structural Policies                                1
O     Social Policies                                                     3
III.   POLICY OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES FOR 1996-98                              3
o     Macroeconomic Objectives                                            4
o     Monetary and Financial Sector Reforms                               5
o     Budgetary and Public Expenditure Policies                           6
o     Civil Service Reform                                                8
o     Public Enterprise Reform                                           10
O     Privatisation                                                      12
o     Market Liberalisation                                              13
o     Sectoral Policies and Programmes                                   14
o     Women in Development                                               21
o     Youth in Development                                               22
o     Targeted Poverty Interventions                                     22
IV.   DATA REPORTING AND STATISTICAL ISSUES                                     24
V.    EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS                                           24
ANNEX
O     Policy Matrix                                                      26



KENYA
ECONOMIC REFORMS FOR 1996-1998
I. INTRODUCTION
1.   Kenya faces a major challenge in reducing unemployment and poverty.
The number of people unemployed is currently more than two million and at
least ten million people are living in poverty. In addition, around one-half
million people will enter the labor force each year over the next decade. To
achieve significant reductions in unemployment and poverty, the economy will
require to grow on average by over 6 percent a year for several years. It will
also be imperative that the Government places increased emphasis on social
services and adequately targeted interventions in favour of the poor.
2.   The Government is determined to meet this challenge and has in this
respect initiated a number of reforms in the last three years. The specific
reforms which have been implemented so far include: decontrol of prices;
removal of import licensing; removal of exchange controls; liberalisation of
pricing and movement of maize; liberalisation of the petroleum market; and
reform of the civil service.
3.   This reform framework incorporates the policies and programmes that the
Govermnent is committed to pursue over the next three years in order to deepen
the reform process. This will create the conditions necessary to achieve the
desired rapid and sustainable economic growth.
II. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
Macroeconomic and Structural Policies
4.   Sustained effort by the Government to tighten fiscal and monetary policies
since mid-1993 has been effective in stabilizing the economy and contributing
to the revival of economic growth. Gross domestic product (GDP) grew by
about 3 percent in 1994 and by an estimated 5 percent in 1995. The fiscal
deficit has been sharply reduced from over 11 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to
2.6 percent in 1994/95. Expansion in money supply, though still high, has also
been reduced substantially. Inflation has been reduced substantially. Annual
inflation (month over month) declined steadily from a peak of 62 percent in
1



January 1994 to 6.9 percent in December 1995. However, after a small surplus
in 1993, the current account balance (excluding official transfers) deteriorated
to a deficit of 0.4 percent of GDP in 1994, and further to an estimated
4.2 percent in 1995.
5.   The tight control on the budget was accompanied by tax reforms aimed
at reducing the tax rates and broadening the tax base. Expenditures have also
been reoriented with more resources allocated to non-wage recurrent outlays
and development expenditures.  Progress in controlling expenditure has,
however, been slow and some ministries have continued to spend in excess of
their authorized limits.
6.   With respect to structural reforms, the Government has, since mid-1993,
made significant strides.  It has eliminated exchange controls including
restrictions on inward portfolio investments and removed all trade restrictions,
except for a short list of a few products controlled for health, security and
environrnental reasons. The number of non-zero tariff rates has been reduced
from seven to five, and the maximum tariff reduced from 62 percent in 1993/94
to 40 percent in 1995/96. With the liberalisation of the maize market in
December 1993 and the petroleum market in October 1994, all price controls
have been abolished. Steps were also taken to strengthen the financial system,
including enhanced prudential supervision of commercial banks, the closure of
financially unsound banks, and strict enforcement of statutory requirements of
nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs), some of which were either transformed
into banks or merged with existing banks. Firm actions were also taken to deal
with the hitherto widespread mismanagement and corruption in the financial
system involving access to credit from the Central Bank and budgetary
resources.
7.   The Government has since 1992 been implementing a major civil service
reform programme aimed at reducing the overall size of the civil service and
achieving cost containment, and rendering the civil service more efficient by
improving working conditions. To this end, the civil service has been trimmed
by over 33,000 since July 1993.
8.   Privatisation of 211 non-strategic public enterprises has started, with the
Government divesting its holdings in over 100 firms (including 43 tea factories
in which it turned over the bulk of its shareholdings to farmers) by the end of
1995.  In addition, it has reduced its holdings in another six enterprises,
including Kenya Airways, Kenya Commercial Bank and the National Bank of
Kenya. The Government is also making progress in parastatal reform. Initial
2



steps to restructure key public enterprises like the Kenya Ports Authority
(KPA), Kenya Railways (KR), Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC)
and Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC), have begun.
However, further steps will need to be taken in order to accelerate progress in
this area and thereby improve on the low investment efficiency that limits
economic growth.
Social Policies
9.   The Government has given clear priority to education and health, and has
taken a pragmatic approach in respect to private provision of these services.
To date, Kenya has achieved an average life expectancy of 58 and an infant
mortality rate of 61 per thousand live births. Many challenges, however,
remain. Secondary school enrolment is only 29 percent of the relevant age-
group. Child nutrition, after showing improvement during 1982-87, stagnated,
and even deteriorated in some areas. It is also estimated that thirty-four percent
of the population under five is currently stunted. Child status indicators show
significant differences according to the education of the mother, which is also
a proxy for income differences.  While there is no indication of major
discrimination against females in access to basic education and health services,
the completion rate for primary school education is lower for females, and in
times of economic difficulty, female students are more likely to drop out of
primary school.  Girls from  poor rural families typically do not attend
secondary school. Moreover, female-headed households, i.e., those with no
male support, experience high rates of severe poverty.
10.  The lack of sustained economic growth has become the primary constraint
to social improvement in Kenya. In particular, economic growth has not been
sufficient to generate productive employment opportunities to absorb the rapidly
growing labour force. Unemployment in urban areas is currently around 25
percent. About half of the rural population is living in poverty, and have no
access to the minimum requirement of food and essential non-food commodities.
III. POLICY OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES FOR 1996-98
11.  The key development challenge facing the Government over the next
three years will be to create the conditions for rapid and sustained growth at a
level which will result in a significant reduction in unemployment and poverty.
The Government's strategy to meet this challenge will be to: (a) maintain
macroeconomic stability by strengthening monetary and public sector finance
3



management, and by-consolidating fiscal discipline; (b) improve the efficiency
of the public sector by accelerating and streamlining reform in the civil service
and public enterprises, and improving the delivery of infrastructural services;
(c) enhance external and domestic competitiveness of the economy through
further liberalisation of markets; (d) address the social aspects of development
particularly through targeted poverty interventions and increased access of the
poor to social services; and (e) eliminate corruption. The Government intends
to move further away from direct participation in economic activity, and toward
the provision of an enabling environment for private sector development with
emphasis on policies which are environmentally friendly and which encourage
labour-using growth.
Macroeconomic Objectives
12.  The Government's first priority is to maintain a stable macroeconomic
framework while continuing with structural reforms necessary to accelerate
economic growth. The key macroeconomic objectives for 1996-98 include:
(a) achieving higher real GDP growth rising from an estimated 5 percent in
1995 to nearly 6 percent in 1998; (b) limiting the annual rate of inflation (end
of period) to no more than 5 percent in 1996 and thereafter, close to the rate
of inflation projected for Kenya's major trading partners; and (c) strengthening
the external current account position (excluding official transfers) from a deficit
of about 4.2 percent of GDP in 1995 to a deficit of about 1.4 percent of GDP
in 1996 and to 0.8 percent by 1998. Gross official reserves are targeted to rise
to the equivalent of 4.3 months of imports at end-1998, up from 2.1 months at
the end of 1995.
13.  Stable macroeconomic conditions, liberalised markets, and more efficient
operations of the strategic public enterprises are expected to enhance the level
and the efficiency of private investment, and result in increased income and job
creation. To achieve these objectives, Kenya will require an increase in gross
fixed capital formation from 21.7 percent of GDP in 1995 to 23.2 percent in
1998. The investment recovery will be financed out of national saving, which
is projected to increase from about 20 percent of GDP in 1995 to 24.5 percent
in 1998.
4



14.  Over the period 1996-98, the agricultural sector is projected to grow
slightly above 4 percent per annum, with a slight decline in its share as percent
of GDP by 1998. Government policies will seek to ensure that broad based
rural development is promoted through appropriate investment in rural
infrastructure and agricultural research and extension. The manufacturing and
the service sectors are projected to grow at around 7 percent per annum,
reaching 18.2 and 36.6 percent of GDP by 1998, respectively.
Monetary and Financial Sector Reforms
15.  The primary objective of monetary policy will be to maintain price
stability. To achieve this objective, the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) will seek
to ensure that money supply expands at rates consistent with the growth of
economic activities. The Bank will continue to rely mainly on Open Market
Operations (OMO) to manage the supply of money and credit to the economy.
Interest rates in such operations will be allowed to vary, as necessary, to
achieve this goal. Credit to the financial institutions from the CBK will be kept
low. Foreign exchange intervention by the CBK will be limited to smoothing
out short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate.
16.  A number of measures will be taken to strengthen monetary policy
management. Accordingly, the Government will submit a Bill to Parliament by
June 1996 to amend the CBK Act and to give the Central Bank more autonomy.
The Government considers this to be critical to sustain price stability. The Bill
will define clearly the purposes of the Central Bank and grant it sufficient
powers to discharge its responsibilities more effectively. In addition, the CBK
will seek to improve its capabilities to forecast accurately and on a timely basis
movements in reserve money. The Bank will also strive to improve its
intervention techniques in the money and foreign exchange markets.
17.  Steps will be taken by the CBK to develop secondary markets in Treasury
bills to increase the effectiveness of financial markets. Preparatory work on the
legal and technical infrastructure for the introduction of Repurchase Agreement
instruments (REPOs) will be undertaken in 1996.  The Capital Markets
Authority will also encourage the private sector to establish a central depository
for Treasury bills, which would ensure an efficient delivery and payment system
for the bills. An expanded role for the Nairobi Stock Exchange is envisaged,
particularly through a widening of the range of financial instruments traded on
the exchange and assistance in the privatisation of public enterprises.
5



18.  To strengthen the broader financial system, the National Social Security
Fund (NSSF) will be converted into an autonomous pension fund and necessary
legislation will be presented to Parliament by end-December 1996.  The
legislation will stipulate, inter-alia, that members of the Board be elected by
pensioners, and that the Board members elect the chairman. The conversion
will be carried out with the assistance of the World Bank and other donor
agencies and will include, inter alia, strengthening of information technology
as well as an actuarial study by an external auditor. Meanwhile, the NSSF has
been instructed to invest its revenue in government securities only, except for
deposits in sound and stable financial institutions which will be limited to 15
percent of NSSF's total assets. An external audit of the financially troubled
Kenya National Assurance (KNA) has been completed and specific
recommendations have been made for its restructuring by end-June 1996. The
general insurance business of KNA will be liquidated and the life insurance
business will be operated as a closed fund. This means that no new insurance
will be issued and most of the existing staff will be retrenched. Any financial
impact will be reflected in the 1996/97 budget. To consolidate the soundness
of the banking system, no new banking licenses will be issued before end-1996
except for large new entrants, i.e., banks with capital larger than Kshs 1 billion
who are judged to offer credible competition to the existing large banks.
Moreover, all prudential regulations will continue to be strictly enforced.
Budgetary and Public Expenditure Policies
19.   Fiscal policy will continue to be significantly tightened with the objective
of lowering domestic debt and thereby facilitating the reduction of interest rates.
The overall budget deficit (on a commitment basis and excluding grants) is
targeted to decline gradually from its 1994/95 level of 2.6 percent of GDP to
1.9 percent of GDP in 1995/96 and further to 1.5 percent of GDP by 1997/98.
In the process, overall revenue will slightly decrease from 31.7 percent of GDP
in 1994/95 to 30.9 percent in 1997/98.  On the expenditure side, the
programme will focus on improving the quality and the sectoral allocation of
public spending, as well as strengthening of budgetary control and management.
Development expenditure would be increased over the period to help rehabili-
tate infrastructure, while recurrent expenditure will be markedly reduced so that
total expenditure would decline from 34.3 percent of GDP in 1994/95 to 32.3
per cent in 1997/98. With the projected availability of grants and external
financing and assuming budgetary support from programme financing, this level
of deficit will allow domestic debt to be reduced from 28.1 percent of GDP in
1994/95 to 18.4 in 1997/98. The retirement of domestic debt is essential to
allow more credit to the private sector and a reduction in real interest rates.
6



20.   Tax Reform. Steps will be taken to deepen the tax reform which is
aimed at reducing the tax burden and broadening the tax base. Maximum
import duties will be lowered further by July 1997, while income tax and VAT
rates will be lowered to the extent compatible with the deficit target. The tax
base will be broadened by eliminating many of the exemptions from taxes and
reducing the scope for tax evasion. In particular, the Government will take
immediate steps to do away with all discretionary import duty exemptions.
Improving tax administration will continue to be an important element of the tax
reform programme. In this respect, the Government will ensure the proper
functioning of the newly established Kenya Revenue Authority by improving
remuneration and funding its other operations and by empowering the Authority
to freely hire and dismiss staff in order to encourage diligence, honesty, and
performance. To enhance controls on customs revenues, the Government has
begun a systematic ex-post reconciliation of actual receipts of customs duties
and those calculated by the Pre-shipment Inspection (PSI) firms.
21.  Public Expenditure Reform. Further steps will be taken on expenditure
reform  involving  strengthening  budgetary  controls  and  rationalising
expenditures.   Budgetary controls will be reinforced through increased
transparency and accountability. To this end, the Government will not enter
into any commitments which have not been included in the Budget and
approved by Parliament.  It will strictly enforce and, where necessary,
strengthen procedures for the granting of public procurement contracts and for
external and domestic borrowing. In this respect, no exemption will be granted
in the requirement for the public tender of all contracts exceeding Kshs 10
million. Expenditures will be closely monitored on a monthly basis by the
recently established unit at the Treasury, and the sanctions of the financial
orders and regulations will be strictly applied to Accounting Officers in
ministries and departments that violate established recurrent and development
ceilings without explicit and prior written approval of the Treasury. Consistent
with this, the Government will publish on a quarterly basis, the preliminary
budgetary outturn. The Government will also take steps to ensure that local
government expenditure processes are on a sound footing, particularly given the
increased resources made available to them through the authorization of a
50 percent increase in the service rates on businesses.
22.  The rationalisation of public expenditures will involve a shift in the
allocation of public funds toward the Government's basic functions of
maintaining law and order and administering justice, financing broad-based
education and health services, providing economic infrastructure, supporting
agricultural research and extension, and protecting the environment. While
7



recurrent expenditures will continue to be constrained, limits on the overall
growth of the wage bill through civil service rationalisation, improvements in
the collection of appropriations-in-aid by ministries, and the shedding of non-
essential government services, will permit significant real increases in non-wage
operations and maintenance expenditures, particularly for the basic functions.
To this end, the Government will initiate, with assistance from the World Bank,
a wide-ranging review of public expenditures during the first half of 1996.
This review will be the basis for specific spending decisions in the 1996/97 to
1998/99 Budgets.
23.  Development expenditures (including net lending) will be increased from
their current level of just over 7 percent of GDP. Full annual funding will be
provided for all "'core" projects and allocations to core functional areas will
account for at least 75 percent of the development budget over the next three
years. Shortfalls in funding will be met by reallocating funding from non-core
to core projects. The Government will improve the project selection criteria to
ensure that all new projects are vetted before they are introduced into the Public
Investment Programme (PIP) in order to ensure consistency with likely available
resources, and that no project will be included in the Budget which is not
contained in the PIP.
Civil Service Reform
24. The first of three phases of the seven-year programme of the Civil Service
Reform Programme, which is intended to increase the efficiency of the Service
and to improve management capacity, is now underway. As indicated earlier,
in order to improve the efficiency of the Service, the programme involves the
reduction of positions and staff, implementation of staffing norms for all cadres,
improved establishment control, rationalisation of selected ministries and pay
reform.  These actions will be taken consistent with budgetary resource
availability.  In line with the Government's previous commitments, staff
reduction measures and the corresponding positions are to be reduced by 16,000
per year over 1995/96 and 1996/97, through natural attrition, voluntary
retirement and position rationalisation. During the period January 1996 to June
1997, the Government will limit new hires to 3,000 per year maximum, i.e.,
no more than 1500 between January and June 1996 and by 3000 between July
1996 and June 1997. This will imply net reductions in civil service of 20,180
over the period January 1996-June 1997.
8



25.  In light of emerging staff shortages in certain areas, the Governmnent will
ring-fence some of the most critical and well-trained but scarce junior staff.
During 1996, the Government intends to carry out staff analysis and establish
staffing norms for key cadres. This, together with the results of the ministerial
staff rationalisation programmes, will enable the Government to develop a
coherent programme of Civil Service rationalisation for the period 1997/98 and
beyond. This program will be developed by June 1997 taking account of the
medium term budgetary outlook.
26.  To increase personnel control, the Government is committed to the
introduction of an Integrated Personnel and Payroll Database (IPPD) system in
the Service. By mid-1997, the Government will have completed the first Phase
of this introduction. Similarly, by the end of 1996, modalities will have been
worked out for the introduction of and implementation of performance-related
pay for identified critical cadres. In addition, and as part of its effort to improve
efficiency, the Government will identify key indicators for Civil Service
Operations and Maintenance (O&M) requirements and give them priority in the
recurrent budget expenditures beginning in 1996/97.
27.  In the area of ministerial rationalisation, work has already been initiated
in the ministries of Health (MOH), Finance (MOF), Lands and Settlements
(MOLS), Public Works and Housing (MOPWH). Land Reclamation, Regional
and Water Development (MLRRWD) and Agriculture, Livestock Development
and Marketing (MOALDM). For MOH and MOALDM, implementation of
these plans is underway and is expected to be completed by the end of 1996.
The rationalisation of the other four ministries is expected to be completed by
July 1997. The Government intends to identify by July 1996., six additional
ministries for rationalisation with emphasis on the development of staffing
norms which can be applied to determine optimal staffing levels.  It is
envisaged that the process of ministerial rationalisation will be complete by the
end of 1998.
28.  During the period 1996-98, increased attention will be paid to training
and human resource development in the Civil Service. Training will be geared
toward the development of special skills in key areas, based on the results of
the staffing norms and ministerial rationalisation.  Towards this end, the
Government will seek to improve physical facilities in the existing training
institutions. Before the end of 1996. it is expected that all critical training
needs will have been identified and prioritised.
9



Public Enterprise Reform
29.  The Government considers the private sector as the only basis for
sustainable long term economic growth. Accordingly, it will progressively
reduce the role of the public sector in the economy through rationalisation of
public sector firms and an accelerated programme of privatisation.
30.  Rationalisation of Major Parastatals.   The Government intends to
implement major rationalisation and divestiture programmes for each of the key
parastatals. In so doing, the Government will seek to increase the role of the
private sector through direct participation as well as through divestiture of non-
core activities. Furthermore, tight budgetary controls will be enforced on the
parastatals. This will be achieved by charging market rents for the use of lands
held by the Government, applying a 2 percent fee to any new loan guarantees
provided by the Government, requiring parastatals to be current on their
financial obligations, and eliminating any existing arrears within the next three
years.
31.  National Cereals and Produce Board.  The Government will by end-
1996 transform the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) into a
commnercially viable entity free to make independent commercial decisions.
Experts will be engaged for this purpose. The experts are expected to begin
work by June 1996, based on terms of reference agreed with the World Bank.
Principles governing this commercialisation, including expanding the private
sector role in maize marketing, and the interim operating rules for NCPB have
been finalised.
32.  Kenya Ports Authority.  To improve the efficiency of Kenya Ports
Authority (KPA), the Government has requested Singapore Port Authority
(SPA) to manage and operate the container terminal at the port of Mombasa.
SPA has agreed in principle, and the necessary contract will be signed before
the end of March 1996.  KPA will also at that time have completed the re-
negotiation for the two ten-year equipment maintenance contracts it entered into
in 1994, limiting the duration of these contracts to five years and establishing
performance guarantees and penalties. A performance contract between the
Government and KPA will be completed before April 1996. The contract will
include arrangements to implement the recommendations of the ongoing staff
rationalisation study.
10



33.  Kenya Railways Corporation.  A programme for the restructuring of
Kenya Railways (KR) which has already been initiated will be accelerated early
in 1996, based on the paper to be considered by Cabinet in February 1996. It
will include the separation of passenger and freight services, the discontinuation
of loss-making services, the contracting out of locomotive maintenance, the
divestiture of marine services, and staff reductions. The maintenance contracts
will be signed by August 1996 and staff numbers will be reduced to 14,500 by
the end of 1996. A performance contract will be entered into before the end
of May 1996.
34. Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation. The Government
will issue, early in 1996, a policy statement spelling out the privatisation
programme for Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (KPTC).
Legislation will be presented to Parliament in March 1996 seeking to split
KPTC into three separate entities: posts, telecommunications, and a regulatory
authority. If approved, the three entities will be established by December 1996.
The Government will open to outside investors at least 30 percent of the capital
of the new telecommunications entity through the participation of a strategic
investor and through public flotation. The entity will also engage in joint
ventures with private investors in activities such as cellular telephones. As part
of this process, KPTC has recently liberalised telecommunication services
beginning with pay phones and Very Small Aperture Terminals (VSAT) for
private operators. KPTC will also divest its non-essential services including
workshops and buildings by September 1996.
35.  Power Sector Companies.   Legislation is now being prepared to
separate the regulatory and commercial functions of the power sector, facilitate
restructuring of the sector and promote private investment.  This will be
presented to the Parliament by the middle of 1996. An action plan is also being
formulated which will provide for the commencement of the separation of
generation, transmission and distribution, and articulate the reforms in the
organisation, management and financial structure of the Kenya Power and
Lighting Company (KPLC) and other power companies. The implementation
of the action plan will commence in June 1996. Performance contracts for all
power sector parastatals will be entered into for implementation commencing
before the fourth quarter of 1996. Early in 1996, bids will be invited for
investment by independent private producers in power generation.
11



36. Institutional Arrangements. To increase managerial autonomy in public
enterprises, a Government Order will be issued early in 1996 exempting key
parastatals (excluding Kenya Railways, which is already exempted, but
including Kenya Airports Authority) from provisions of the State Corporations
Act. The Ministry of Finance has also begun filling its staff positions charged
with monitoring the reform programme.
Privatisation
37. The Government aims to complete by the end of 1997 the divestiture of'
all remaining (96 entities) "non-strategic" enterprises. This will be done in
tworoughly equal installments. In addition, in 1996 work will be initiated on
the divestiture of three formerly strategic enterprises:  Kenya Pipeline
Corporation, Kenya Petroleum Refineries and Nyayo Bus Corporation. The
Government is progressively reducing its holdings to a modest minority
shareholding in the National Bank of Kenya and Kenya Commercial Bank.
38.  The Government will take steps to ensure access for a wide spectrum of
Kenyans in the ownership of enterprises to be divested. In order to build and
maintain public confidence in the programme, the Government is committed to
ensuring the utmost possible transparency in the implementation of divestitures.
To achieve this, where shareholders do not hold clearly established pre-emptive
rights, the Govermnent will employ competitive bidding using transparent
procedures: (i) firms (or their assets) to be sold will be widely publicized in
advance; (ii) pre-qualification criteria and ranking methodology will be clearly
publicized with the call for bids; (iii) bids will be opened publicly; and (iv)
results will be published at the conclusion of each sale listing the terms of sale,
the offers received, and the price at which the sale took place. Quarterly
reports will be prepared and published on the implementation of the
privatisation programme and on the privatisation proceeds and their uses. Semi-
annual audits on the privatisation proceeds and uses will also be prepared and
made public.
Privatisation" is understood to mean that the Government
(including   its  various   departments,   ministries,   holding
companies, agencies, etc.) has divested its holdings in the firm
to 30 percent or below the blocking share" as stipulated in the
firms articles of agreement.
12



Market Liberalisation
39.  Trade Reform.  The Government will continue with the following
process of trade and investment liberalisation. Import tariffs will be further
realigned, with the aim of achieving by July 1997 no more than three non-zero
rates, and a lower trade weighted average tariff. The discriminatory elements
of the supplementary levy on sugar will be eliminated by December 1996. The
suspended duty on petroleum imports, introduced in November 1994 to give
temporary protection to Kenya Petroleum Refineries Limited following the
petroleum market liberalisation, will be eliminated by October 1996, contingent
on the completion of the LPG import unloading pipeline (see para 54). Specific
duties on cereal imports will be abolished by end-1996. By that time anti-
dumping legislation consistent with the World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules
will be presented to Parliament, and anti-dumping duties on cereal imports will
be imposed in accordance with the law. The Government will also work with
Uganda and Tanzania, under the framework of the Permanent Tripartite
Commission for East African Cooperation, toward an eventual goal of an East
African common external tariff and harmonized investment regulations, as well
as a more active use of regional currencies.
40.  Given its commitment to export-oriented growth, the Government intends
to implement a strategy for industrial development that is intended to develop
and diversify Kenya's industrial exports. The strategy will focus on creating
the conditions to encourage private investment in activities where Kenya could
be competitive.  Underpinning this strategy will be a broad based effort,
through appropriate training and incentives, to make all relevant Government
agencies active promoters of investment and trade. The policy instruments to
enable such growth will include simplification of licensing and tax regulations
and procedures, and provision of improved infrastructure services. Effective
enforcement of the low and simple tariff structure will reduce uncertainty and
promote investment in areas where Kenya has a comparative advantage.
41.  Domestic Market Liberalisation.   The Government will undertake
further reforms to ease restrictions on business entry and operations while
putting in place appropriate safeguards against anti-competitive behavior. This
will be achieved by rationalisation and a reduction in the number of national
and local fees and licenses required for new businesses, and through minimising
restrictions on retail and wholesale trade and investment under various
legislation. Actions on this front will be taken within the context of reforms of
the fiscal base of local authorities. The Government is also committed to taking
corrective measures to ensure that farmers, consumers and traders benefit from
13



a liberalised market. In this respect, the liberalisation of maize marketing and
the establishment of a competitive seed industry will be crucial. To speed up
resolutions of commercial cases, the Government intends to introduce additional
courts in major towns.
Sectoral Policies and Programmes
42.  Agriculture.  The main aim of agricultural sector policy will be to
accelerate agricultural growth, increase small-holder productivity, and expand
rural employment. With the substantial deregulation of the domestic markets
for all agricultural commodities, this objective will be pursued under a
liberalised system where the private sector plays the key role in production,
marketing and processing. The Governrment has already liberalised the seed
subsector; additional measures will be taken to strengthen the subsector,
including the establishment of financially sustainable breeder and foundation
seed units at the research centers of KARI, and the improvement of plant
health,  quality  and  quarantine  services  and  facilities  through  the
operationalisation of the Kenya Plant Health and Inspectorate Services
(KEPHIS).
43.  The Government is also taking steps to improve the operations of Kenya
Cooperative Creameries (KCC), with a view to improving its financial viability
and enhancing the farmers' role in the management of the affairs of the
organization.
44.  Consistent with these changes is the proposed restructuring of MOALDM
which will be completed by the end of 1996. This will reorient the role and
strategic functions of the Ministry so as to effectively facilitate private sector
initiatives, with emphasis on providing strengthened research, extension and
other essential services to farmers. A number of services, such as tractor hire
and some veterinary services, will be privatised and cost recovery introduced
for others.  KARI, which plays an important role in the generation and
dissemination of knowledge and related technology, will also be restructured
during 1996/97 within the context of the joint donor financed Second National
Agricultural Research Project (NARP II). This restructuring will include the
review and streamlining of user charges in order to reflect acceptable cost-
sharing and cost-recovery in the financing of research.  To strengthen the
application of science and technology to agricultural development, the existing
legislative framework will be reviewed; in this respect, a review of the Science
and Technology Act (Cap.250) has already been initiated.
14



45.  Food security is of paramount concern to the Govermnent. To this
objective, the Governmrent will maintain a strategic maize reserve stock of up
to 3 million 90-kilogram bags and will develop rules governing its management.
While it is expected that the actions of private traders will serve to stabilize the
maize market in most years, under exceptional situations, the Government will
supplement these private efforts to reduce uncertainty and ensure food security
by financing purchases and sales of maize.
46. Environment. The National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which
was formally adopted by the Government in June 1994, sets the framework for
dealing with the crucial urban, rural and coastal environmental problems which
need to be urgently addressed. Since its completion, the challenge has been to
translate NEAP's broad concerns about environmental management into an
operation programme of effective policy, legislative and institutional action.
The Government will soon be presenting to Parliament, as a Sessional Paper,
a comprehensive environmental programme. An action plan to operationalise
this programme, including the establishment of an institutional framework, will
be initiated before the middle of 1996. The Government is currently preparing
an environmental legislation which, after broad-based consultation, will be
presented to Parliament by the end of the third quarter of 1996. It is the
Government's intention to establish a Land Use Commission to address land
tenure and land use policy issues, with a view to improving sustainable
agricultural productivity and the food security situation, as well as in ensuring
that biodiversity considerations are properly considered in land-use decisions.
47.  The Government is particularly concerned about the state of the
woodlands. The decline in areas of indigenous high forests and the degradation
of biodiversity and forest product resources within them has reached critical
levels. The use of woodlands in arid and semi-arid lands as grazing areas and
wood fuel continues to accelerate. Industrial plantations have been inadequately
restocked and lack production-oriented management.  The Government's
Forestry Policy Statement addresses these various concerns, particularly
inadequate restocking which is addressed by requiring loggers to replant clear-
felled plantations. The Policy Statement will be presented as a Sessional Paper
to Parliament in March 1996. Necessary supportive amendments to the Forest
Act will be presented to Parliament in September 1996.
48.  The Government is in the process of updating the policy on wildlife
conservation and management (as contained in Sessional Paper No. 3 of 1975)
and the Wildlife Conservation and Management {Amendment} Act of 1989 to
respond to changing conditions and objectives of wildlife and biodiversity
15



conservation.  The new policy framework centers on three main goals:
(i) conserving of biological diversity and representative indigenous ecosystems;
(ii) promoting environmentally sustainable tourism; and (iii) promoting
compatible land use in priority biodiversity areas, and channeling the benefits
thereof to the local communities. A revised policy and legislation will delineate
the roles and responsibilities of the Kenya Wildlife Service and of other
Government and non-Government stakeholders in the implementation of this
participatory approach. The draft policy is being prepared by the Kenya
Wildlife Service and is expected to be approved by the middle of 1996, with the
revised legislation to be presented to Parliament by the end of 1996.
49.  Road Transport.    The Government recognizes that inadequate
maintenance over many years has led to a significant deterioration in the road
network. The introduction of a special levy on motor fuels in 1994 to be
earmarked for road development and maintenance was a major step to deal with
this problem. The activities to be financed by the fund are contained in the
relevant Act. The Government will also ensure that at least 50 percent of the
funds required for routine and periodic road maintenance (including urban
areas) will be provided in the budgetary allocations in 1995/96. This level will
be progressively raised to fully finance routine and periodic road maintenance
by the turn of the century.
50.  A strategic plan for the road sector is now being prepared for approval
by the Government in June 1996, and outlines the framework for: (i) capacity
building and increased use of the private sector in both roads maintenance and
construction; (ii) plans for provision of adequate and sustainable funding for
road maintenance; (iii) provide guidelines for transparent management and use
of the fund; and (iv) setting priorities for roads investments.
51.  Water.  Draft legislation amending the Water Act will be presented to
Parliament to address concerns regarding national water resources management
and planning. A National Water Policy Paper is also being prepared for
Government approval. A comprehensive investment plan for the rehabilitation
and extension of existing water supply schemes, many of which are in poor
condition as a result of inadequate maintenance by financially weak operating
agencies, has also been recently prepared and is now being implemented. The
low level of cost recovery has been a major factor contributing to inadequate
maintenance. To address this, the Government will progressively implement
its policy of charging urban consumers water tariffs sufficient to cover capital
amortization and O&M costs, while setting rural tariffs to cover O&M costs
only.
16



52.  Energy. The implementation of a sound policy  framework and an
appropriate investment programme to address the increasingly serious shortfalls
in power supply is of high priority to the Government. The Government has,
therefore, prepared a rolling five-year least cost investment programme
comprising urgent investments in power generation, transmission and
distribution as well as investments to facilitate importation of liquid petroleum
gas (LPG) and the transportation of other petroleum products. Construction of
five power stations, two of which will be developed and operated by the private
sector, will add a total of 338 MW to existing capacity at the turn of the
century. The Government attaches great importance to rural electrification and
is therefore also reviewing cost-effective options for providing electricity to the
rural areas, including policies to encourage the use of renewable energy
resources (e.g. wood fuels, photo-voltaics and windmills).
53.  To mobilize resources required to supplement external borrowing in
financing the power sector investment programme and to encourage economic
consumption of electricity, tariffs will be adjusted to ultimately cover long-run
marginal costs (LRMC). As an interim measure, tariffs will be raised to
75 percent of LRMC by the beginning of June 1996 following resolution of
outstanding administrative/legal issues. An update of the November 1993 Tariff
Study, to be completed in the third quarter of 1996, will provide the basis for
the Government to establish the magnitude and phasing of further adjustments
required to achieve LRMC after taking due consideration of the cost of power
from independent power producers and the sector's overall financing
requirements.
54.  Deregulation of the procurement, distribution and pricing of petroleum
products was announced in October 1994. The objective of the deregulation
was to create a more competitive environment which would improve the
availability of petroleum products and lower prices in the long-term. Because
of the lack of import facilities for LPG, temporary (two year) arrangements
were made for: (i) the annual processing of about 1.6 million tons of crude oil
by the refinery to ensure production of about 250,000 tons of the current annual
demand for LPG; and (ii) protection of the refinery by levying duties on
imported products. To achieve the full benefits of deregulation, removal of the
following existing constraints to competition is required: (a) urgent construction
of LPG import facilities comprising pipeline connection between the Shimanzi
Oil Terminal and the new storage tanks and rail/road loading facilities to be
constructed at Mombasa; (b) review and implementation of options for
continued use of the petroleum products pipeline as a common carrier; and (c)
installation of a product testing laboratory in Mombasa. Part of the LPG import
17



facilities, to be constructed on a priority basis, include the LPG unloading
pipeline from Shimanzi Oil Terminal to Mombasa Refinery Compound wall and
the vapour return line from that point. As indicated in paragraph 39, suspended
duties on petroleum imports will be completely removed by October 1996,
contingent on completion of the LPG import unloading pipeline.
55.  Population.      Kenya has been pursuing an active population policy.
While there has been remarkable success in reducing fertility over the last
decade, the population of Kenya is still growing at a high rate of around
3 percent per annum. Continued emphasis will thus be placed on family
planning service delivery to achieve higher contraceptive use and on the
promotion of programmes such as social marketing and community-based deliv-
ery to address demand for these services. To ensure better coverage of the
population in the delivery of these services, greater reliance will be placed on
private and other non-government entities. To reflect this, the Government is
in the process of restructuring the National Council for Population and
Development (NCPD) to de-emphasize its role in service delivery and to turn
it into a policy-making, coordinating and advocacy entity. Over the longer run,
following the U.N. Cairo Conference on Population, Kenya will emphasize the
integration of population policy into the overall policy framework. This will
include specific interventions in primary education and reproductive health,
particularly for disadvantaged families.
56.  Health.    The Government is firmly committed to major reforms in the
health sector. The recently prepared Health Policy Framework sets out a
comprehensive approach to improve the quality and availability of health
services, including specific measures to be undertaken over the next three years,
namely, (i) the adoption of a strategy to reduce the prevalence of disease among
the population; (ii) the decentralization of financial and administrative authority
to districts, beginning in the first half of 1996; (iii) the shifting of a larger share
of the financial burden of curative care from the Ministry of Health's (MOH)
budget to insurance schemes of the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) 2
and competing private financial entities; (iv) an increase in resources devoted
to the completion, maintenance and repair of existing facilities and equipment;
(v) the strengthening of key health management information systems at the
district level; and (vi) the restructuring of the MOH to support these reforms.
The Budget of the MOH will continue to reflect the shift to preventive health
2  The Government is currently reviewing the scope for
expanded enrollment and coverage in the NHIF. The new draft Bill
of the NHIF reflects an intention to include self-employed and
the Jua Kali (Informal) sector.
18



care away from hospital care, particularly Kenyatta National Hospital where
efforts are underway to improve its efficiency and financial autonomy. The
Government is committed to limit the share of MOH's budget to the hospital to
12 percent beginning 1996/97, subject to adequate progress being made in
ensuring other facilities are in place to serve the Nairobi area. Efforts to
improve the quality of health services under constrained budgetary conditions
requires that funds be mobilised through increased user charges.   The
contribution of user charges will therefore have to be raised from their current
level of 12 percent of MOH's non-wage recurrent budget to about 18 percent
in 1997/98.
57.  To address the problem of AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases,
the Government is implementing a National AIDS and Sexually Transmitted
Disease Control Programme (NASCP), and has prioritized capacity building at
national and district levels to integrate AIDS into the development plans. Steps
are also being taken to minimize the socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS and
to strengthen HIV/AIDS epidemiological surveillance. A Policy Paper on AIDS
is being finalised, which includes appropriate institutional arrangements to
coordinate the implementation of the NASCP. As part of a pilot project
supported by donors, non governmental organisations (NGOs) are beginning to
play a key role in control and prevention of sexually transmitted infections. All
annual district health plans include funds earmarked for NGO activities, and the
authority to incur expenditures has been delegated to the District Medical
Officer for ten districts and municipalities.
58.  Nutrition. Recent evidence points to high rates of infant mortality some
deterioration in already adverse child nutritional status indicators. Anaemia and
malnourishment among women are also significant, although the precise extent
is unknown.  To reverse these trends, the Government will review  all
nutritional interventions to shift its financing to more cost-effective programmes
targeted at infants, pre-school children and pregnant women, particularly in
rural areas, with selected interventions for older children in poor districts. This
will include examining the role of communities in financing the school feeding
programme to ensure its sustainability, assessing and monitoring the nutritional
situation, preventing specific micro-nutrient deficiency, improving young
children feeding, and caring for socially and economically deprived nutritional
vulnerable groups.
19



59.  Education. The Government's principal objectives in this sector over the
next three years will be to reverse the recent declines in primary and secondary
enrolment and completion rates, particularly of girls from poor households, and
to improve the quality of education at all levels.  This will involve a
reallocation of public expenditures from university education toward
disadvantaged students in primary and secondary education, and an increase in
the effectiveness of these expenditures. Means-tested bursary programme to
secondary schools will be expanded in 1996/97. The Government will also
work out arrangements and plan to introduce a bursary programme directed at
girls in primary schools--especially those at the upper primary level in rural and
slum  areas.  Initiatives for pre-primary education and early childhood
development will also be strengthened. To improve the quality of education,
the Government will maintain its policy of not recruiting new untrained teachers
at the primary level.
60.  The Government has in place policies to encourage the participation of
the private sector in the establishment and operations of educational institutions.
The Goverrnent is also encouraging the sector to enhance its participation in
the production of all educational materials. To this end, the capacity of the
Kenya Institute of Education (KIE) will be strengthened and a review of policies
on publishing educational materials prepared by the Institute will be carried out,
with the aim of enabling the private sector to participate effectively with the two
parastatals publishing educational books, that is, Jomo Kenyatta Foundation
(JKF) and Kenya Literature Bureau (KLB).
61.  Enhancing the efficiency and responsiveness of educational institutions
through the decentralisation of decision-making will be an important objective.
This will be achieved by increasing the capacity, responsibility and
accountability of local authorities and of boards and committees of educational
institutions for funding arrangements and management performance. In this
context, the Government is establishing Provincial Education Boards,
strengthening District Educational Boards and reviewing and rationalising the
responsibilities of the Teachers Service Commission (TSC). Changes at TSC
will involve decentralising its functions more appropriately at the school or local
level and strengthening TSC's capacity to manage more appropriately those
handled centrally. In addition, the Education Acts and regulations are being
reviewed and a plan of action prepared to decentralise management and
financial decision-making, permitting councils and boards of educational
institutions to determine fees from 1996/97.
20



62.  Consistent with the decentralisation strategy, determination of fees to
supplement Government grants to meet especially the actual cost of tuition,
accommodation and catering, will be fully devolved to University Councils for
the 1996/97 academic year. Reforms have also been recently undertaken in the
administration of Student Loan Schemes. The Higher Education Loans Board
(HELB), which has now taken over the functions of the former Student Loan
Scheme Unit from the Ministry of Education (MOE), will make full use of its
enhanced legal powers for loan recovery. The Board intends to progressively
increase the role of commercial banks in lending to students, initially as
contractors for loan disbursements and recovery, with the long-term aim of en-
couraging them to accept some portion of the repayment risk.
63.  In the area of skills training, the Government, through the Ministry of
Research, Technical Training and Technology (MRTT&T) aims at improving
the capacity of Kenya's technical training institutions.  This will be done
through the updating of equipment in the training institutions as well as the
improvement of their management.  In addition to these efforts, the
Government, through the MRTT&T, plans to develop a national Skills Training
Strategy through a process involving all key stakeholders.
Women in Development
64.  The Government will continue its efforts to ensure that women participate
and benefit equally from the development process through their integration into
mainstream  activities.  Recent studies show  that women are not grossly
discriminated against in Kenya, but there are subtle differences which have a
cumulative effect on the welfare of women, such as drop-out rates of primary
education, and low enrolment and completion rates for secondary and higher
levels of education. Women are also disadvantaged in their access to land, and
are particularly vulnerable in the event of divorce, separation or being
widowed.
65.  Efforts to improve opportunities for women will continue to focus on
increasing their access to education and health.  Given the increasingly
important role played by women in the rural sector, the Government will also
step up its efforts to redesign agricultural extension services to provide
information directly relevant and accessible to rural women. The budget-
neutral recruitment of women as extension staff, use of women's groups to
disseminate technical information, and integration of home economic messages
and information on appropriate labor-saving technologies are important
components of the latter. The Government will initiate ways and means to
21



improve access of women to productive resources such as agricultural inputs,
water, fuel wood, credit and skills. Towards this goal the Government will
support rural water supply systems that feature community participation and
NGO involvement, and that can significantly improve the quality of life of
women and the community as a whole. In addition, the Government will
ensure that women in the small and medium enterprise sectors have access to
existing skills upgrading training of the Jua Kali (Informal Sector) programme
so as to address their specific needs.
Youth in Development
66.  About 15.5 million people or 60 per cent of Kenya's population are
young people below twenty-five years of age. Of this total, around 5 million
are below 6 years, over 5 million are in primary schools, about 600,000 in
secondary schools and about 50,000 are in local and overseas universities.
There are also well over 4 million youths outside the school system, either as
unemployed or undertaking small-scale income generating activities, in both
rural and urban areas.
67.  The Government recognises that the most important resource is its
people. It is necessary therefore that steps are taken to give the youth correct
guidance so that they may grow into useful citizens and leaders of tomorrow.
More importantly, steps must be taken to harness the energies and talents of the
youth by directing them into productive activities. Towards this objective, the
Government will in the period 1996-98, strive to develop appropriate
programmes tailored in particular to help alleviate the unemployment problem
among the youth.  This will involve designing and funding of youth
development programmes and projects through Youth Self-Help Groups which
already exist in both rural and urban areas.  The District Development
Comnnittee (DDC) mechanism will play an important role in this regard.
Targeted Poverty Interventions
68.  While the policies in support of growth and the social sectors are
designed to ensure that the benefits of development reach the poor, targeted
interventions will be required to provide income support to those who cannot
wait until the growth process gathers full steam as well as those who cannot
readily participate in it because of special handicaps, such as geographical
isolation. The most important targeted interventions will be in rural areas
where the need for wage employment is most acute.  In this respect, the
Government will allocate funds to expand its  intensive rehabilitation and
22



maintenance of minor roads, given the importance of these roads and their
current state of disrepair. Flexibility will be built into the scheme to enhance
it during drought years. The Government will also develop community-based
modalities for providing support to the rehabilitation and maintenance of water
projects, including boreholes, water pans and dams, and will seek to establish
a pilot water fund in 1997. Special attention is being given to the poor in arid
areas through programmes designed to meet their basic needs and to increase
their integration with the rest of the economy. Special emphasis will be placed
on the rehabilitation of stock routes on a selective basis, improvements in
drought management and relief, and on the immunisation and school health and
feeding programs.
69.  Sanitation and safe water needs of the urban poor requires urgent
attention. The Government will take steps to deal with these needs by licensing
a larger number of kiosks and by supporting, financially and technically,
community-based initiatives in waste removal and sanitation. To help alleviate
the related shelter problem in urban areas, access to low-cost housing will be
encouraged through cooperative societies.
70.  The informal sector is the main source of income for about a quarter of
rural households and possibly more in urban areas, and energising the sector is
an effective means of reducing poverty. It is, however, constrained by limited
access to formal credit and laws and regulations which often lead to harassment.
To help alleviate the credit constraint, the Government will encourage the
expansion by donors of micro-enterprise schemes, and will seek to ensure that
women groups in both urban and rural areas are specifically targeted. In order
to address sector needs, the Government has mounted a national Jua Kali
programme aimed at addressing issues related to safe working sites, skills
upgrading, access to power and water, access roads, land allocation, and
marketing. This programme has helped many artisans gain access to these
services although it has been constrained by financial limitations.  The
Government aims at expanding and intensifying the programme which, as well
as emphasizing addressing the above issues, will seek support of donors to
expand and improve delivery systems of micro-enterprise lending schemes and
involve a review of laws and regulations inhibiting the sector and undertaking
appropriate amendments.
23



IV. DATA REPORTING AND STATISTICAL ISSUES
71.  The quality of economic data base is generally satisfactory in Kenya. In
the medium term, the Government will: (i) strengthen the Central Bureau of
Statistics and allocate sufficient financial resources to construct a quarterly
composite index of economic activity, re-base constant price national accounts
data, and compile a producer price index; (ii) take measures to improve the
timeliness of the recording of reliable economic statistics, especially those
relating to balance of payments and external financing of the government
expenditure and the real sector.
V. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
72.  The current account balance, excluding official transfers, is projected to
show a cumulative deficit of about US$ 310 million over the period 1996-98
(Table 2). Together with the scheduled amortization payments and the targeted
build-up of international reserves, Kenya's external financing requirement is
estimated about US$2.4 billion over the three-year period. It is expected that
private capital inflows, mainly from foreign direct investments and short-term
trade credits, would amount to around US$ 300 million. Potential financing of
US$1.5 billion is identified from bilateral and multilateral donor agencies, in
the form of grants (US$0.4 billion) and concessional loans (US$ 1.1 billion)
subject to confirmation at the Consultative Group Meeting. After taking into
account identified external financing, a financing gap of about US$550 million
remains for the period 1996-98. The gap for 1996 is estimated at US$224
million. It is expected that the gap will be closed by disbursements under a
World Bank Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) and associated International
Development Association (IDA) reflow, disbursements under the IMF Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and commitments made at the March
1996 Consultative Group meeting.
73.  At end-1995, the external debt of Kenya's public sector amounted to
about US$6.4 billion, or about 80 percent of GDP.  Kenya borrowed
extensively on non-concessional terms in the second half of the 1980s; since
that time, new borrowing have been on concessional terms. In present value
terms, in 1995 the external debt amounted to 191 percent of exports and the
external public debt service was equivalent to 24.9 percent of exports of goods
and services. Consistent with the lower current account deficits associated with
the medium term balance of payments scenario described above, the external
debt will decline as a percentage of GDP. In addition, as the older non-
concessional debt is being repaid and new financing is provided on concessional
24



terms, the overall concessionality of the external debt is expected to increase
over the medium term. As a result of these two factors, the present value of
the debt will decline to 83 per cent of exports by 2005 along with the ratio of
debt service payments to exports of goods and services which would fall to less
than 10 percent.
25



KENYA
SUMMARY AND TIMETABLE OF POLICY ACTIONS, 1996-1998
OBJECTIVES AND                STRATEGIES AND MEASURES                                TIMING
POLICIES
Overall objective of          Policies that encourage environmentally sustainable,    1996-1998
poverty reduction via         labor intensive growth supplemented by public
maintaining a stable, low     expenditure programmes focused on the financing of
inflation macro-economy,      basic social services targeted at the poor.
while continuing with
structural reforms
necessary to revive GDP
growth to 5-6 percent per
annum in 1996-1998.
Monetary & Financial
Sector Policies
Monetary policy to            1. NDA to be reduced substantially with limited        1996
maintain price stability      foreign exchange market intervention. Broad money
to grow in line with nominal income; sharply curtail
net credit to the Government.
2. Present the Bill amending the CBK Act to           June 1996
Parliament.
Financial sector reform       3. Submit legislation to Parliament converting the     Dec 1996
National Social Security Fund (NSSF) into a pension
fund.
Jan. 1996
4. Limit the level of deposits in sound and stable    onwards
financial institutions to 15 per cent of NSSF's total
assets.
5. Instruct NSSF to invest its funds in Government    Jan 1996
securities only until pension fund is established.    onwards
6. Develop secondary markets in Treasury bills.       1996
7. Encourage establishment of a central depository     1996
for Treasury bills by the private sector.
8. Facilitate an increase in the range of financial   1996
instruments traded at the NSE.
9. Improve CBK's technical capacity to intervene in   1996
domestic money and foreign exchange markets.
10. Institute restructuring of KNA                    June 1996
26



Budgetary and Public
Expenditure Policies
Fiscal policy will be          1. Reduce the overall budget deficit (on a               1995/96-
significantly tightened,       comnitment basis but before grants) to 1.9 percent of    1997/98
thereby allowing substantial   GDP in 1995/96. The budget deficit will be reduced
lowering of domestic           further to 1.5 percent of GDP by 1997/98.
interest rates to spur
economic activity.
Broadening of tax base and     2. Strengthen the management of the Kenya Revenue       Continuous
reduction of rates and         Authority.
efficient tax collection.
Safeguard customs              3. Treasury to ensure receipt of ex post                Immediately
revenue.                       reconciliation reports of PSI agencies.                 and continuous
Tighter expenditure            4. Sanction Accounting Officers in ministries that       1996-98
control.                       violate established recurrent and development ceilings
without explicit, prior written (PS/Treasury) approval.
5. All expenditures to be included in the budget and    1996-1998
approved by Parliament. No exceptions to be granted
to requirement for public tendering of all contracts
exceeding K Sb 10 mnillion.
6. Local government expenditure processes to be         1996-1998
strengthened and rationalised.
Rationalize public             7. Increase expenditure on O&M, especially on areas      1996-1998
expenditure to maximize        covering the basic functions of Government, by
impact on economic growth      restraining personnel expenses, improving collection
and poverty reduction.         of recurrent appropriations in aid, and eliminating
non-essential Government services as identified in the
Public Expenditure Review (PER).
8. Increase regular development expenditures from       1996-1998
current level of roughly 7 percent of GDP.
9. Provide full annual funding allocation for all       1996/97
'core" projects with at least 75 percent of the         onwards
development budget for spending in core functional
areas.
10. Initiate detailed PER with World Bank support       Feb., 1996
11. Introduce project approval authority in Ministry    From 1997-98
of Finance and Planning to ensure that Public           budget cycle
Investment Programme (P[P) is consistent with
availability of budgetary resources.
27



Civil Service Refonn
Undertake civil service       1. Reduce staff levels and their corresponding        1995/96 --
reforms to increase the       positions by a further 16,000 a year. New hiring to   1996/97
efficiency of the service     be restricted to no more than 1500 during January -
and to improve public         June 1996 and 3000 during July 1996 - June 1997.
sector management
capacity.
2. Finalise a rationalisation programme with new      June 1997
targets for civil service reductions for 1997/98 and
beyond.
June 1997
3. Introduce first phase of IPPD System for Civil
Service
4. Complete implementation of rationalisation plans   Dec. 1996
for Ministry of Health (MOH) and Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
(MOALDM).
5. Complete rationalisation of the Ministries of      July 1997
finance (MOF), Lands and Settlements (MOLS),
Public Works and Housing (MOPWH), and Land
Reclamation, Regional and Water Development
(MLRRWD).
6. Identify six (6) additional ministries for         July 1996
rationalisation.
7. Complete rationalisation of the six additional     Dec. 1998
ministries.
Public Enterprises
Achieve commercially          1. Exempt KAA, KPA, NCPB, KPTC and KPLC               March 1996
viable operation of strategic  from provision of the State Corporations Act to
public enterprises with       enhance managerial autonomy.
Government and
management relationship
based on arms-length,
monitorable performance       2. Eliminate indirect subsidies to parastatals by:    June 1996
criteria.                     applying 2 percent guarantee fee to all new guarantees
provided by the Government and charging parastatals
market rents on use of land leased from Government.
3. Commence implementation of action plan to         June 1996
eliminate parastatal cross debts and parastatal debts to
Treasury.
Complete divestiture of       4. Complete divestiture of remaining parastatals from  Dec. 1997
parastatals, while ensuring   original list in two roughly equal tranches.
that public confidence is
maintained by transparency
in the process of
privatisation.
5. Complete divestiture proceedings for Nyayo Bus    Dec. 1996
Corporation.
28



6. Institute divestiture procedures for Kenya Pipeline    June 1996
Corp, Kenya Petroleum Refineries.
7. Reduce Government's position in National Bank of       June 1996
Kenya to below 25 percent.
8. Reduce Govemment's position in Kenya                   Dec. 1996
Commercial Bank to less than 50 percent.
9. Commence publication of: (i) regular quarterly         March 1996
reports on the implementation of the privatisation
process; (ii) quarterly reports on use of privatisation
proceeds; (iii) semi-annual audits on use of
privatisation proceeds (June 1996; and (iv) sales
notices on completion of sales.
10. Adopt competitive bidding for all divestitures with  March 1996
fully transparent procedures.
External Policies
To achieve a sustainable        1. Progressively reduce import tariff with the aim of     July 1997
external current account        achieving no more than 3 non-zero rates, and a lower
position over the medium-       trade-weighted average tariff.
term.
2. Eliminate suspended duty on petroleum imports          October 1996
introduced in November 1994.
3. Abolish specific duties on cereal imports.             Dec. 1996
Present to Parliament anti-dumping legislation
consistent with WTO rules and impose anti-dumping
duties on cereal imports in accordance with the law.
Domestic Market
Liberalization
Ease restrictions on            1. Reduce number of national and local fees and           1996-1998
business entry and              licenses for new start-ups and mninimize restrictions on
operations.                     retail and wholesale trade under Trade Licensing Act.
29



Agricultural Policies
To accelerate agriculture      1. Complete rationalisation programme for KARI.        June 1997
growth, increase
srnallholder productivity      2. Submit to Parliament revisions to the Cooperative   March 1996
and expand rural off-farm      Act defining new and more independent role of
employment as well as          cooperatives in a liberalised agricultural sector.
improve food security.
3. Implement actions to improve operations of KCC.     March 1996
Establish competitive seed     4. Issue policy statement related to the liberalisation  March 1996
industry.                      of the seed market.
5. Establish financially self-sustaining breeder and   1996
foundation seed units at KARl's research centers and
improve public plant quarantine facilities to enable
import and export of seed.
Ensure longer term             1. Issue letter of invitation for proposals for        March 1996
sustainability of liberalised  provision of services to undertake commercialisation
maize market.                  of NCPB.
2. Experts in place to prepare and implement           June 1996
commercialisation program of NCPB.
3. Establish NCPB as a commercial entity, free to      Dec. 1996
make independent commercial decisions.
4. Establish modalities for maintenance of strategic   Dec. 1996
maize reserve stock and market interventions.
5. Implement agreed operating rules for NCPB           1996
during transition period.
Environment
Government to focus on         1. Initiate the implementation of an action plan to    June 1996
implementation of the          operationalise environmental policies articulated in the
NEAP.                          Comprehensive Environmental Policy Sectoral Paper.
2. Present to Parliament necessary environmental       Sept. 1996
legislation, following broad-based consultations.
3. Present Forestry Policy Paper to Parliament         March 1996
4. Present to Parliament legislative amendments to     Sept. 1996
Forest Act based on GOK approved Forest Policy
Statement.
5. Complete and begin implementation of Kenya          June 1996
Wildlife Service's land use policy study.
30



6. Present to Parliament revised wildlife legislation.  Dec. 1996
7. Establish Land Use Commnission.                   Dec. 1997
Infrastructure, Transport
and Communications
Roads:                        1. Adopt strategic plan for the road sector that      June 1996
includes defining activities to be financed by the road
Arrest deterioration of the   maintenance levy to address the maintenance,
road network                  rehabilitation and upgrading of roads, including
procedures for transparent management of the road
fund and mechanism to ensure that all the levy funds
are used effectively for road maintenance.
2. Provide budgetary allocations for at least 50      1996/97
percent of funds required for routine and periodic
road maintenance.
3. Progressively raise budgetary allocation to finance  1996-2000
full routine and periodic road maintenance by 2000.
Railways:
Restructure Kenya             1. Present policy paper on restructuring KR for       Feb. 1996
Railways to improve its       Government approval.
efficiency
2. Agree to performance contract between GOK and      May 1996
KR.
3. Separate service accounts and establish passenger  March 1996
service as an autonomous business.
4. Bring Gulf Marine Services to the point of sale.  June 1996
5. KR to contract out full maintenance of            August 1996
locomotives to private contractors.
6. KR to reduce staff level to 14,500.               Dec. 1996
Ports:                        1. KPA to complete renegotiation of the two 10 year   March 1996
equipment maintenance contracts, limiting duration
Improve the efficiency of     and establishing performance guarantees.
Kenya Ports Authority
2. Sign contract for external management and         March 1996
operation of the container terminal.
3. Complete Performance Contract between GOK         April 1996
and KPA.
31



Telecommunications:            1. Issue of telecommunications sector policy           early in 1996
The extension and efficient    statement and privatisation programme.
delivery of
telecommunications             2. Divest non-essential services (workshops,           Sept. 1996
services to remove             buildings).
constraint to more rapid
economic growth and the        3. Present legislation enabling the separation of      Mar. 1996
long term development of       KPTC into three separate entities to Parliament.
Kenya.
4. Establish three separate entities for posts,        Dec. 1996
telecommunications and a regulatory authority.
5. Sale to outside investors at least 30 percent of the  Mar. 1997
new telecommunications after separation.
6. Liberalise telecommunications services beginning    1995-1996
with pay phones and VSAT terminals for private
operators.
Water:                         1. Prepare an operational plan and progressively        1996-1998
implement declared government policy of charging
Improve management of         urban consumers a water tariff to cover capital
water resources.               amortization and 0 & M costs while setting rural
tariffs to cover only O&M.
2. Present to Parliament amendments to Water Act to     Dec. 1996
address concerns regarding national water resources
management.
Energy
Implementation of a sound      1. Invite bids for investment by independent private    March 1996
policy framework and an           producers in power development.
appropriate investment program
to address the increasingly
serious shortfalls in power       2. Present appropriate legislation for separation of    June 1996
supply.                           regulatory and commercial functions to Parliament.
3. Complete action plan for reorganization of the power    June 1996
sector, including separation of accounts of power sector
companies.
4. Commence implementation of agreed performance        Sept. 1996
contracts for all power sector parastatals.
5. Adjust electricity tariffs to 75 percent of LRMC.   June 1996
6. Agree with IDA on timing of adjustments of electricity   Oct. 1996
tariffs to cover LRMC.
7. Remove the temporary import tariff on petroleum     Oct. 1996
products.
32



Human Resource
Development
Population:
Further reduction in population   1. Adopt plan for restructuring NCPD into a policy-   June 1996
growth rates via continued       making, coordinating and advisory entity.
emphasis on family planning
service delivery to achieve
higher contraceptive use.
Health:
Devote relatively more of        1. Limit the share of the MOH budget devoted to KNH to  1996/97
the Ministry of Health budget to    12% (subject to adequate progress being made in reform
preventive and primary          and rehabilitation of other facilities serving the Nairobi
services; increase efficiency and  area).
financial autonomy of Kenyatta                                                         June 1996
National Hospital (KNH), and     2. Give full authority to KNH Board to determine charges
encourage facility-level         at KNH, with the exception of TB, AIDs and children
management and                   under 5.
decentralization.
3. Increase user charge collections to about 16 % of MOH  1997/98
budget in 1996/97 and 18% in 1997/98 (with 25% of this
going to primary and preventive health care).
Implementation of major    4. Decentralise financial and administrative authority to  1996
reform measures in the     districts, beginning with a phased approach.
health sector as indica-
ted in the Health Policy
Framework.
5. Complete detailed audits of the NHIF for fiscal years from   Dec. 1996
1991/92 through 1994/95.
6. Finalise and begin implementation of action plan to shift    Dec. 1996
part of the financial burden of curative care from the Ministry
of Health budget to insurance schemes, including the National
Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) and private providers.
7. Present legislation to Parliament amending the NHIF Act to  1996/97
allow coverage of the self-employed and workers in the Jua
Kali sector.
8. Finalise and begin implementation of action plan to   July 1996
consolidate and strengthen key health management information
systems to support the policy making role of the Ministry of
Health in budgeting, planning and management functions in the
districts.
AIDS:
Finalise Policy Paper on AIDS.                           June 1996
33



Nutrition:
Reduction in infant             1. Finalise and begin implementation of an action plans for (i)  Dec. 1996
mortality, and improvement      nutritional interventions with a view to shifting budget
in nutritional status of        financing to more cost-effective programmes targeted at
children as well as adult       infants, pre-school children, and pregnant and disadvantaged
women.                          women, with selected interventions for older children in poor
districts, the landless and ASAL areas; and (ii) community
financing of the school feeding programme.
Education Policies and
Reforms:                     1. Make adequate budget allocation to expand means-tested    1996/97
The Government's key            bursary programmes for secondary school students and
objectives during this PFP      introduce a means-tested bursary programmes for primary
period are to increase          schools, both especially targeted to girls from poor
enrollment rates among girls    households.
in poor households, to
increase completion rates for
primary education, and to       2. Adopt policies to enable the private sector to participate  1996
improve quality at all levels   with JKF and KBL for publication of educational materials
of the system. The objectives   prepared by KIE.
to be met within the context
of a further rationalisation of
public expenditures,            3. Complete and commence implementation of plan of action   June 1996
improved management of          to rationalize TSC functions and responsibilities.
education (including
decentralization of decision
making), and expanded           4. Revise Education Acts and regulations and prepare plan of   Sept. 1996
private sector participation.   action to decentralise management and financial decision-
making, including determination of fees to councils and boards
of educational institutions up to university level.
5. Prepare and implement a plan of action for the HELB to    June 1996
increase progressively the role of the commercial banks in loan
recovery.
6. Present to Parliament legislation to harmonise the various    June 1996
acts relating to CHE and the public universities.
7. Prepare, through MRTT&T. a National Skills Training      Dec. 1996
Strategy.
Further Targeted Poverty
Interventions
Provide support to          1. Finalise and begin implementation of drought management   1996
population who cannot       system which would improve the timeliness and target
wait until the growth       accuracy of emergency food distribution response.
accelerates
and who cannot readily
participate in it because of
special handicaps, such as
geographic isolation.
34



2. Implement road construction and maintenance schemes to    1996-1998
seek to generate employment for the poor at wages defined by
existing wage guidelines.
3. License more water kiosks, support community based     1996-1998
initiatives in waste removal and sanitation, and encourage
access to low cost housing through cooperative societies.
4. Design and commence implementation of a community-     Sept. 1997
based pilot water fund.
5. Finalise and approve ASAL strategy and action plan which   Dec. 1996
will include programmes designed to provide a safety net to
enhance the economic integration of such population groups
with the rest of the economy, and to improve the human
capital base of the population.
Technical Assistance
Enhance functioning of      1. Develop plan of TA to improve the fumctioning of money    1996
financial markets and      and foreign exchange markets.
institutional monitoring
capacity.                  2. Place a resident advisor on:-                           1996
(a) expenditure control
(b) administering revenue authority
3. Seek TA to build a producer price index and construction    1996
of a quarterly index on economic activity.
35



ANNEX B    I of 2
Kenya
Most Same regjon4ncone group            Next
La'-'Single yer             recent        Su-4                      higher
Unit of                                      edmate      Saharan          LOW-        incone
Indicator                                      mneaure             1970-75      1980-835     1989-94        Africa      Incomw         group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                             local curr.                                         ..
Headcount index                               % of pop.                               ..          37
Lower poverty line                             local curr.
Headcount index                               % of pop.                              ..           ..
GNP per capita                                   USS                   250          300           250          500          390         1,670
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                          local curr.               ..           ..
Unskilled rual wages                                                                              136
Rural terms of trade
Consumer price index                           1987-100                 26           89          424
Lower income
Food"
Urban                                                                 ..           93           116
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services    % of GDP                  ..          7.1
Gross enrollment ratios
Primary                                    % school age pop.            95           99            91           71           105          104
Male                                              "                   103          102           92            77          112           105
Female                                                                 87           96           91            64           98           101
Mortality
Infant mortality                         per thou. live births         98           66           59            92           58            36
Under 5 mortality                                                      ..            ..          90           161          101           47
Immunization
Measles                                     % age group                 ..         63.0         36.0         51.4          86.2         77.4
DPT                                                                     ..         70.0         36.0         53.5          89.1         82.0
Child malnutrition (under-5)                       "                     ..         22.0         22.5           ..          38.2
Life expectancy
Total                                           years                  51           56           59            52           63           67
Female advantage                                                      4.0           4.2          3.5          3.5          2.4           6.4
Total fertility rate                       births per woman            8.1           7.7          4.9          5.9           3.3          2.7
Maternal mortality rate                  per 100,000 live births        ..          510          646
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security           % of total gov't exp.        3.2           0.1          0.1
Social security coverage                  % econ. active pop.            ..           ..
Access to safe water: total                    % of pop.               17.0        28.4
Urban                                                              100.0         61.0
Rural                                                                4.0         21.0
Access to health care
Population growth rate                    GNP per capita growth rate                           Dvlpetdaodb
+     (average annual, percent)                  N      (averge anual, percent)                     Developenta mon
6       L0                                                                                                 Life expectancy
T
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-s                                 O~~      ~      ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~NP  GroTss
2                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per   ~   ~primary
I                                              ~~~~~~~        ~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~capita  >  enrollment
1970-75      1980-85       1989.94              1970-75      t980-85       1989-94    JAcs osf  ae
m Kenya                                                                                               Kenya
- Low-inc-ome                                                                                         Low-income
a. See the technical notes, p.387. b. The development diamond, based on four key indicators, shows the avenge level of development in the country
compared with its income group. See the introduction.



ANNEX B    2 of 2
Kenya
Mom Soam rere wcou group               Net
Latestl.gkye.              recenl        Sub-                    Itiscr
Unit of                                    estiuc      Sakrn           LOW        inca,o
Indicator                                     nwasure           1970-75      198-5        1989-94       AVe.        Incomv        group
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre-1994)                        thousands            13,741       19,997      26,017      571,902    3,182,221     1,096,881
Age dependency ratio                           ratio                1.12         1.14        ;.00         0.94         0.66         0.63
Urban                                        % of pop.              12.9         19.7        26.9         30.6         28.3         55.9
Population growth rate                       annual %                3.7          3.5         2.6          2.8          1.7          1.3
Urban                                                               7.8         7.3          5.7          4.9          3.2          2.7
Labor force                                  thousands             6,618       9,401       12,923      254,250    1,590,533      488,647
Agriculture                               % of labor force           84           St           80           65           67           36
Industry                                                              6            7            7            9           I4           26
Female                                                               46           46           46           41           39           40
Labor participation rates
Total                                       % of pop.               48           47           50           44           50           45
Female                                                              22           22           23           37           41           36
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                        thou. sq. km          580.37       580.37      580.37    24,273.83    40,391.42    40,594.43
Density                                    pop. per sq. km         23.68        34.46       43.67        22.90        77.44        26.66
Agricultural land                          %of land area           44.93       45.31        45.37        50.61        52.42        41.05
Change in agricultural land                  annual %               1.22         0.80        0.00         0.01         0.16        -1.38
Agricultural land under irrigation              %                   0.16        0.16         0.26         0.86        17.84        11.40
Forests and woodland                        thou. sq. km               ..       12.56        11.87     5,323.14     7,632.00    5,969.25
Deforestation (net)                      % change, 1980-90            ..           ..        0.56
INCOME
Household income
Share of top 20% of households             % of income              60            ..          62
Share of bottom 400/. of households                                  9            ..          10
Share of bottom 20% of households                                    3            ..           3
EXPENDITURE
Food                                         % of GDP               28.3        23.4           ..
Staples                                                            12.2         11.3          ..
Meat, fish, milk, cheese, eggs                                      7.3          6.7          ..
Cereal imports                           thou. metric tonnes         86          279          569       14,051       36,922       68,936
Food aid in cereals                              "                    2          340          287        5,079        8,516        5,771
Food production per capita                   1987- 100               104          96           78          102          115          102
Fertilizer consumption                         kg/ha                 1.7          4.2         4.7          5.3         58.5         46.3
Share of agriculture in GDP                  % ofGDP                30.2         28.5        24.4         19.5         27.6         14.0
Housing                                      % of GDP                8.7          8.3          ..
Average household size                  persons per household        5.0           ..         4.9
Urban                                                               5.0           ..         3.1
Fixed investment: housing                    % of GDP                3.5          3.1          ..
Fuel and power                               % of GDP                1.7          1.7          ..
Energy consumption per capita              kg of oil equiv.          114         101          107          251          373        1,602
Households with electricity
Urban                                    % of houeholds              ..           ..        37.0
Rural                                                                ..          ..          2.0
Transport and communication                  % of GDP                5.6          5.6          ..
Fixed investment: transport equipment                                2.7          1.7          ..
Total road length                            thou. km                50           65           63
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Population per physician                      persons              7,900       6,512        9,851           ..           ..        3,064
Population per nurse                                               2,525         942
Population per hospital bed                                         o00          590          602        1,316        1,034          592
Oral rehydyration therapy (under-5)          % of cases                            ..          69           37           38
Education
Gross enrollment ratios
Secondary                               % of school age pop.          13          21           25           24           48           63
Female                                                               9           16           23           23           42           62
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary              pupils perteacher          33           34           31           40           39
Pupil-teacher ratio: secondary                                       25           20           17            ..          20
Pupils reaching grade 4                     % of cohort              97           68            ..
Repeater rate: primary                    % of total enroll           5           13            ..
Illiteracy                               %of pop. (age 15+)           ..          35           31           53           35
Female                                  % of fem. (age 15+)          ..          47           30           54           46
Newspaper circulation                      per thou. pop.             10          14           14           12           ..          236
World Bank International Economics Department, April 1996



ANNEX C: Kenya at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan    Low-
Kenya    Africa  income    Development diamond'
Population mid-1994 (millions)                      26.0       572    3,182                Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1994 (US$)                            260       500      390
GNP 1994 (billions USS)                               6.6      286    1.241
Average annual growth, 1990-94                                                                   1
Population (%)                                        2.7       2.7     1.8    GNP                                 G ross
Labor force I%)                                       3.4       2.8      1.9    per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latestyearavailable sknce t9S9)                           capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populatin)             37
Urban population I% of total populakton)              28        31       28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      59        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ihe birfths)              58        92       68
Child malnutrition f% of children under 5)            23         ..      38               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of popuJation)                  .         ..     67
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  22         ..      35
Gross primary enrollment I% of school-age populathon)  91       71      105      -Kenya
Male                                                92        77      112           Low-incone group
Female                                              91        64       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      11994    19      : Economic ratlos,
GDP (billions USS)                           3.3      6.1       6.9     7.9              Openness of economy
Gross domestic investment/GDP               18.1    26.0       20.9    22.9
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP  29.8    25.3     38.6    37.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.5    24.9       23.7    21.7
Gross national savings/GDP                   9.2    22.6       20.4    18.7
Current account balancetGDP                 -8.6    -7.0       -0.4    -4.2     Savings                      Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        1.4      2.7       4.3
Total debt/GDP                              39.6    68.1      106.0
Total debt servicelexports                  14.9    39.2       33.3
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..      75.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    193.3       ..                 Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95    1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                            Kenya
GDPmp                               4.8      3.3      3.9       5.0     5.3      -Low-incomegroup
GNP per capita                      1.1      0.1      3.1       3.7     2.9
Exports of goods and nfs            0.3      5.1    -1.3        7.5     3.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1994    1995       Growth rates oroutputand Investment(%)
(% Of GDP)                                                                      20
Agriculture                                 34.2    32.5       29.1
Industry                                    20.2    19.1       17.4        .     10
Manufacturing                             12.0    11.7       105   . . 
Services                                    45.6    48.4       53.5       .1    s-   93   94   .5
Private consumption                         68.2    57.6      61.5    61.6    .20
General government consumption              18.3    17.5       14.7    16.8                               P
Imports of goods and non-factor services    34.5    26.4       35.7    38.2                   GDI    GD
(average annual growth)                  197684  1985-95      1994    1995      Growth rates of exports and imports I%)
Agriculture                                  3.8     1.7        3.1             45
Industry                                     4.8     3.5        2.0      ..        l
Manufacturing                              6.3      4.3       1.9       .      30
Services                                     6.0     4.3        3.3             15
Private consumption                          3.3      3.6     10.3      0.7
General government consumption               4.3      5.5       8.6    10.3             s0                      94   9s
Gross domestic investment                    1.8      0.4      18.7    10.9    .15
Imports of goods and non-factor services    -3.7      4.7     30.3      5.3                -Expons   -Imports
Gross national product                       5.0      3.0       5.8     6.4 
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specifled.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
Kenya



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1994    1995       Infladon (%)
DomesfYc pilces
(% change)                                                                        so
Consumer prices (Ave. Nairobi CPI)           19.1    10.7        28.8      1.7    40
Implicit GDP deflator                        11.3      8.2       15.7      0.9    .0
20
Govemment finance (in fiscal years)      1 974/75 1984/85  1993/94 1994/95        ,0
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                ..    21.6        29.2     31.7     o
Current budget balance                         ..    -0.8        -1.0      5.2            go    DI    92    93    94    95
Overall surplus/deficit (on commitment basis    ..    -7.5       -8.0     -2.6               -GDP def -CPI
and exci grants)
TRADE
(millions USS)                               1976    1986       1994     1995      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..    940       1,482    1,783    3.000
Fuel                                                 118         65       73     2,500
Coffee                                        .      281        233      302    2.000 
Manufactures                                         117        159      184         11..l1
Total imports (cif)                                  1,486      2,044    2.606     '      .    ..
Food                                                 112        180      205     i    __________________
Fuel and energy                                      461        332      329
Capital goods                                  .     340        503      578     5000F
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..      90       122        ..
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..      81        77        ..           99  90   i    92  93   94   95
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..    111        157        ..                   LExports mImports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions USS)                               1975    1985       1994     1995      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services      955    1,552      2,645    2,954      2
Imports of goods and non-factor services    1,131    1,850      2,448    3,0533_
Resource baiance                             -176     -297       197       -99         89         91  392   9    94   95
Net tactor income                             -93    -213       -374      -365
Net current transfers                         -13       81       148      128      4-
Current account balance,                                                           -e
before official transfers                   -281     -429       -30     -336     .F
Financing items (net)                         244      397       134      203    -10.
Changes in net reserves                        38       33       -104     133    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)           173      417       625      453
Conversion rate (/ocaV/USS)                   7.3      16.4      56.1     51.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985       1993     1994
(esitions US$)                                                                     Composition of total debt. 1994 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,290    4,178      7,120    7,273                   G      A
IBRD                                        106      751       566      501                   688   501
IDA                                          81      408      1,631    1.789
Total debt service                            151      621       627      888           F
IBRD                                          6       85       156      155          12769                        B
IDA                                           1        5        19       21                                      1789
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              31      195       292      311
Official creditors                           87      135       142       66
Private creditors                            33        8       -37     -276
Foreign direct investment                    17       18         2        4                                     C
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0        0                                    4E 06
World Bank program                                                                             2151
Commitments                                 219        6        92       64      A- IBRD                      E - Biiateral
Disbursements                                51      113       226       97      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                          1       35       108      115      C - IMF                      G - Short-terrm
Net flows                                    50       77       119      -18
Interest payments                             6       55        67       62
Net transfers                                44       22        52      -79
International Economics Department                                                                                   5/10/96
Note: Government fiscal year (July to June).



ANNEX D
Kenya: Key Indicators, 1991 - 2001
Actual                     Prel. ACL                   Projection
Indicators                                                    1991      1992      1993      1994      1995     1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001
Real Growth Rates (/:
Gas Dometic Product (GDPmp)                                     1.4     -0.8       0 4       3.9       5 0       5.0       5.3       5.7      6 0       6 5       7 0
Real Per Capita Grovth Rates (%):
Gross Dmestic Product (GDPmp)                                  -1 4      -3.5     -2.3       1.2       2.4       2.4       2.8      34        3.6       42        47
Debt & Debt Senvce (LT+ST+WF):
TotaDOD(LISSmill.                                           7455.0   6907.0   7120.0   7273 0    75187    7779.4   8031.8   81737    8178.4   8163.4   80479
DOD/GDP (1)                                                  92.7      86.9    129.0    106.0        94.2      958      89.6      82.3      759       69.5      626
Debt Service (USS nmill.)                                    718.4    669.7    630.3    856 7    876.6    8604          819 7     785 3     862.2    841.9    813.9
DebtServiceJExpots(/)                                          31.9      31.0     27.0      32.1      29.4      28.4     25.7      23.2      243       22.5      202
DebtService/GDP(4)                                             8.9       84      114       12.5      11.0      106        91        79       8.0       72        63
Resource Baulce/GDP (%)                                        -1.5     -0.5       4.1       2.9      -1 2       1.1       0.7       0.7      0 5       02        0 8
Domestic Ssving/GDP (9/)                                       19.7     17 0      22.5      23.7      21.7      24.0     24.0      24.6      24 7      24 5      25 1
Gross Investment/GMP()                                        21.3      17.4      18.4      20.9      22.9      229      23.3      239       242       243       243
ICOR                                                          -22.1     51.2       54        4.0       42        4.4       41       3.9       39        36        34
ConunuerPriceIndex(.growth)  I/                                19.6     27 3      46.0      28 8       17        50        50       50        50        50        50
GDPDeflator(/ growth)                                          11.6     16.7      24.5      156        09        4.4      48        4.8       50        50        50
Expons (GNFS) Vol. Gr. Re (%)                                  -0.6      0 6       2.0      -1 3       8.9       2.4      2.6       3 7       3 8       3 9       43
Expos (GNFSYGDP (5/)                                          27 3      27.1      391       38 6      37 0      370      35 3      33 8      32 3      31 7      31 2
imports (GNFS) Vol. Gr. Rate (/.)                              -4.5     -2 3     -10.3      30 3       7 5      -4 0      4.3       5.4       6 2       66 6       0
Imports (GNFSYGDP (5/)                                        28 8      27.6      34 9      35 7      38 2     35 9      34 6      33 1      32 3      31 5      30 4
BOP CurrentBaiance (USS mill.)                              -350.6   -325 2        4 3     -29 9    -336 4    -108.6   -109 2     -75 8     -78 9     -90 3       4 9
Gros Reserve (months impots G&S)                               0 8       0.9       2.3       2 6       1 6       2.2      2.8       3 3       3 3       3 3       3 5
Actual                         Est.                    Projection
Fical Dao  in percenuae 2/                                 1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96     1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      2001
CentrilGovtRevenues & Grants/GDP                              26.4      25.6      30 3      331       35 6     34 2      32 5      318       312       304       29 5
Cental GovttExp. inc net lending/GDP                          295       356       37.2      343       360      347       32.9      32.2      31.2      302:       88
Budget Def eKcl anmts/GDP                                      4 9     -11.4      -8 0      -2.6      -1 9      -I 8      -1.5     -1 4      - 10      - 08      -0 2
Budge Def inclgun S/GDP                                        -3 0    -10 0      -6 8      -1.2      -0 3      -0 5      -0 4      -0 4      0 0       0 1       0 7
1/ Avenge nnualNairobi Consumer Price Index excluding rent.
2/ Hstorical fiscal data s in fiscal year beginnng July 1. Projections are in calendar year



ANN1EX E
Kenya - Balance of Payments
(USS nillons at cuesnt prias)
Prelinm AcL       Projoctions
1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997     1993      1999     2000     2001
Total exports of GNFS a/                  2249.7   2150.7   2319.7   2644.8   2954.3   3007.4   3162.3   3357.6   3532.3   3725.1   4005.7
Merchandise (FOB)                     1069.6   1003.7   1135.6   1431.6   1783.0   1733.0   1391.0   2043.1   2136.0   2344.3   2557.1
Nonfactor services                    1130.1   1142.0   1134.1   1163.2   1171.3   1219.4   1271.3   1314.5   1346.3   1330.2   1448.6
Total Imporu of GNFS                      2371.9   2189.1   2091.6   2448.3   3053.3   2916.3   3095.3   3235.7   3479.9   3701.7   3904.2
Merchandise (FOB)                     1632.2   1603.4   1334.6   1761.7   2246.4   2120.1   2247.5   2400.3   2569.7   2757.3   2927.1
Nonsfactor services                    639.7    530.7    707.0    636.6    306.9    796.2    348.3    335.4    910.2    943.9    977.1
Resource balance                          -122.2    -33.4    223.1    196.5    -99.0       91.1     66.5     71.9     52.9      23.3    101.4
Net factor income                         -372.3   -355.0   -360.1   -373.3   -365.5   -323.3   -303.4   -233.0   -270.9   -255.7   -242.3
Factor receipts                          5.6       7.4     11.3     21.6     24.0      13.1     22.6     29.1     22.4      23.3     26.5
Factor payments                        377.9    362.4    371.4    395.4    339.5    346.9    331.0    312.1    293.3    279.0    269.3
Interest (scheduled)               349.0    327.5    231.9    313.3    313.0    293.3    233.3    273.7    272.3    254.2    237.5
Net private current transfers              143.9     63.2    136.4    147.4    123.1    129.1    132.7    135.2    139.1    142.0    146.3
Current receipts                       191.0    257.5    192.7    208.4    197.5    196.3    203.3    203.2    210.4    212.8    217.5
Current paymenes                        47.1    189.3      56.3     61.0     69.4      67.7     71.1     73.0      71.4     70.3     71.1
Current account balance                   -350.6   -325.2       4.3    -29.9   -336.4   -108.6   -109.2    -75.3    -73.9    -90.3        4.9
Official capital grants                    204.1    214.2      94.0     30.3     90.4    137.0    136.2    134.0    133.0    133.0    133.0
Pnvate investment (net)                     13.9      6.0       1.5      4.0     12.9      15.9     15.3     29.9     29.1      55.0     30.2
Direct foreign investment               13.9      6.0      1.5      4.0      12.9     15.9     15.3      29.9     29.1     55.0      30.2
Net LT borrowing b/                        109.3   -130.7      59.7   -277.3    -43.6     99.0    153.3      75.5      5.5    -41.0    -70.6
Disbursements cJ                       563.2    336.4    439.5    252.2    475.3    567.3    529.6    472.3    529.1    497.3    460.9
Repayments (scheduled)                 453.9    467.1    429.8    529.5    524.4    504.3    46.7    436.6    523.5    533.3    531.5
Net other LT inflows (gapfill)           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     36.0     90.4      39.4      0.0      0.0       0.0
Adjustments to scheduled debt service      223.0    313.0     49.0       0.0      6.1    -55.3       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Debt service not paid                  223.0    313.0     49.0    500.6       6.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Reduction in arrears/prepayments (-)     0.0      0.0      0.0   -500.6       0.0    -55.3      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other capital flows                       -295.3     -1.5    122.1    327.2    142.3      37.5       3.7     23.6     33.0      37.0      0.0
Net short-term capital                -273.0     21.0     73.0    -65.0    137.0      37.5     33.0      42.5     4.0      49.0       0.0
Net capital flows n.c.i. d/            -15.0    -61.1   -176.2      5.7       5.3      0.0    -34.3    -13.9      -3.0    -12.0       0.0
Errors and omtssions                    -7.3     33.6    225.3    336.5       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Change in net international reserves e/     90.6    -75.3   -330.6   -104.3    132.3   -125.5   -204.3   -137.2   -126.7    -93.6   -147.6
of which [AF Credit                         3.5    -32.3    -30.4      18.5    -39.2      12.0      1.5      5.7    -66.4    -43.9    -44.9
MTemorandum items
Total gross reserves                    134.0    132.3    474.6    625.3    453.3    591.6    793.6    991.9   1052.6   1097.7   1200.6
Tot. gross res (in months' imporu G&S) U  0.8      0.9      2.3      2.6       1.6      2.2      2.3       3.3      3.3      3.3       3.5
Exchange rates
Annual average (Ksh/USS) g/               27.5     32.2      53.0     56.1     51.0      55.0     55.0     55.0      56.4     57.9     59.4
At end year (Ksha/USS)                    23.1      36.2     63.2     44.3     53.0      55.0     55.0     55.7      57.2     53.7     60.2
CurrentAccount Balance as%GDP               4.4       4.1      0.1      -0.4      4.2      -1.3     -1.2     43.      70.       -0.43     0.0
ai Goods and nonfactor serviecs.
bi 'L"T denotes "long-term."
ci Histoncal data from Debt Reporting System (DRS).
d/ "n.e.i." denotes "not clsewhere included".
e '-' indicates increase in assets.
S -G & S" denotes "goods and services".
g/ "Kshs" denotes "KCenya shillings".



Annex F
Page I of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1996
(US$ millions)
(Less Cancellations)
Fiscal                                                            Undis-
Credit No.    Year     Purpose                           Bank       IDA         bursed
Fifty-four (54) loans and sixty seven (67) credits closed,  985.87   1519.23
of which SAL, SECAL or Program Loan/Credit:             (60.90)    (925.45)
Cr.19040     1988      Population III                                  12.09      4.90
Cr.19730     1989      Geothermal Development                          40.70      3.00
Cr.20600     1990      Third Nairobi Water Supply                      64.80     21.54
Cr.20620     1990      Coffee Improvement II                           46.80     15.76
Cr.21110     1990      Population IV                                   35.00     30.27
Cr.21980     1991      Forestry Development                            19.90     10.45
Cr.21990     1991      National Agric. Ext. ll                         24.90     17.95
Cr.22040 (S)  1991     Agric. Sector Adjustment 11                    41.52       5.42
Cr.23090     1992      Universities Investment                         55.00     46.12
Cr.23 100    1992      Health Rehabilitation                           31.00     23.58
Cr.23330     1992      Mombasa and Coastal Water II                   43.20      25.35
Cr.23340     1992      Wildlife Services                              60.50      26.43
Cr.24400     1993      Parastatal Reform TA                           23.32      18.04
Cr.24450     1993      Agric. Sect. Mngt. II                           19.40     13.73
Cr.24600     1993      Emergency Drought Recovery                     20.00       9.09
Cr.25960     1994      Micro & Small Enterprise                       21.83      21.17
Cr.26710     1995      Institutional Development                      25.35      22.96
Cr.26860     1995      Sexually Transmitted Infections                40.00      39.38
Cr.27970 *    1996     ARID Lands                                     22.00      21.58
Cr.281 10 *    1996    Urban Transport                                115.00    112.41
Cr.28120 *    1996     Nairobi Mombasa Road                           50.00     49257
Total                             985.87     2331.54    538.70
of which repaid                 733.04        528
Total held by Bank & IDA          252.83     2271.66
Amount sold    11.74
of which repaid 11.74
Total undisbursed                                       538.70
(S) Indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
* Not yet effective.



Kenya                                                      Annex F
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS                                                  Page 2 of 3
As of March 31, 1996
(In Millions US Dollars)
Oriinal Gross Commitnents
Undisb
IFC                       Held by   Held by    incl.
Fiscal Years Committed            Obligor                 Type of Business    IFC Loan  Equity    Ptpnt.    Totals    IFC       Ptpnt.   Ptpnt.
1967/73             a/ Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.  Hotels and Tourism            4.20     0.72      0.96     5.88
1970/74/77/79/81/88/90/9 Panafrican Paper Mills (E.A.) Ltd. Timber, Pulp and Paper  52.26   5.79      3.97    62.02     24.87
1972                   Tourism Promotion Services (Ken Hotels and Tourism          1.63               0.79     2.42      0.04
1976                   Rift Valley Textiles Limited (RIV Textiles                  6.87     2.77      1.30     10.94     2.06      0.39
1977                a/ X - Loans to small & medium scal Financial Services         2.00                        2.00
1980/84                Development Finance Company o Financial Services            5.07     1.31               6.38      1.31
1981                a/ Kenya Commercial Finance Com  Financial Services            5.00                        5.00
1982                a/ Bamburi Portland Cement Compa Cement and Construction M     4.43                        4.43
1982                   Diamond Trust of Kenya Limited Financial Services                    0.80               0.80      0.80
1982/87                Industrial Promotion Services (Ke Financial Services                 1.17                1.17     1.17               0.62
1983                a/ Tetra Pak Converters Limited    Timber, Pulp and Paper      2.17     0.37               2.54
1984/92                Leather Industries of Kenya Limit Manufacturing             2.12     0.63               2.75      0.63
1986                   Equatorial Beach Properties Limit Hotels and Tourism        3.67                        3.67      5.36
1986                a/ Madhupaper Intemational Limited Timber, Pulp and Paper      8.50     1.97    28.65     39.12
1986                a/ Oil Crop Development Limited   Food and Agribusiness        9.65     1.40              11.05
1988/92                Ukulima Tools Ltd.           Motor Vehicles and Components (includ   0.06               0.06      0.06
1989                   Premier Foods Industries Ltd.    Food and Agribusiness               0.11               0.11      0.11
1989                a/ PremierRefrigeration and Engine Food and Agribusiness                0.14               0.14
1990                   Frigoken Ltd.                Food and Agribusiness                   0.06               0.06      0.06
1991                   Malaa Industries Limited     Food and Agribusiness          0.53     0.16               0.69      0.69
1991                   Novaskins Tannery Ltd.       Manufacturing                           0.14               0.14      0.14
1992                a/ Integrated Wood Complex Limite Timber, Pulp and Paper       0.40                        0.40
1992/93                Allpack Industries Limited   Timber, Pulp and Paper                  0.36               0.36      0.36
1993                   Future Hotels Limited        Hotels and Tourism             0.50                        0.50      0.43
1994                   Aura Garments Manufacturing Li Textiles                     0.30                        0.30      0.30
1994                   East Africa Reinsurance Company Financial Services                   1.10                1.10     1.10               0.30
1994                   Mosi Limited                 Food and Agribusiness          0.29                        0.29      0.23
1994                a/ Sawa Flora Limited           Food and Agribusiness          0.32     0.19               0.51
1994                   Waterfront Hospitality Limited   Hotels and Tourism         1.00                         1.00     1.00                1.00
1995                   Capital Fish Kenya Limited    Food and Agribusiness         0.65                        0.65      0.65               0.65
1995                   Intemational Hotels (Kenya) Limi Hotels and Tourism         6.00                        6.00      6.00               4.80
1995                   Island Farm                  Food and Agribusiness          0.50                        0.50      0.50               0.50
1995                   Kihingo Roses Limited        Food and Agribusiness          0.52                        0.52      0.49
1995                   Vegpro Kenya Limited          Food and Agribusiness         0.95                        0.95      0.95               0.15
1996                   Jacaranda Hotel Ltd.         Hotels and Tourism             0.50                        0.50      0.50               0.50
1996                   Magadi Soda Company Limited  Chemicals and Petrochemica     9.00                        9.00      9.00               8.60
Total gross conimitments b/                              129.03     19.25    35.67    183.95
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales       80.67      8.80    35.28    124.75
Total commitments now held c/                             48.36     10.45     0.39     59.20     58.81     0.39     17.12
Pending Commitments
AEF-K-REP BANK                                                       1.00               1.00



Kenya                                                        Annex F
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS                                                     Page 3 of 3
As of March31, 1996
(In Millions US Dollars)
Original Gross Commitments
Undisb
IFC                         Held by   Held by    incl.
Fiscal Years Committed              Obligor                 Type of Business     IFC Loan   Equity    Ptpnt.    Totals    IFC       Ptpnt.    Ptpnt.
AEF-KENFUNDS                                                           0.17                0.17
AEF-KENFUNDS MGT                                                       0.09                0.09
AEF-WAKATE CENTR                                             0.43      0.43                0.86
Panafrican Paper Mills (E.A.) Ltd. Timber, Pulp and Paper    15.00                        15.00
Total pending commitments                                    15.43      1.69              17.12
Total commitments held and pending commitments              63.79      12.14     0.39     76.32
Total undisbursed commitments                                16.20     0.92               17.12
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, termninated, written-off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investements.



ANNEX G
KENYA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supervision Plan
IDA Supervision Input
1.    Supervision of the SAC is expected to involve 27 staff weeks exclusively in FY97,
as second tranche disbursement is anticipated by June 30, 1997. This will be in addition to
IDA supervision of the on-going Parastatal and Civil Service Reform projects which
support implementation of the SAC. SAC Supervision will concentrate on the following
key areas: assessment of the macroeconomic framework, compliance with agreed public
expenditure allocations, implementation of the privatization program, progress in
restructuring of key parastatals, reduction in the size of the civil service and development
and implementation of the ministerial rationalization plans. In addition, the supervision
will focus on the supply side response to the program, as reflected in GDP growth and
private investment activity, as well as its social impacts as reflected in school enrollment
rates and health indicators.
Organization and Timing of the Supervision Activities
2.    The task manager will have the overall responsibility for supervising the SAC. In
this regard, he will be assisted by the Economist in the Resident Mission, who will take the
lead in supervising the public expenditure component of the SAC. As part of the
supervision effort, the task manager will call upon specialized expertise in key areas, e.g.,
telecommunications (specifically the restructuring of KPTC), ports, and energy (the
restructuring of the power sector). The Resident Mission will also play a central role in
supervision, through the on-going monitoring of progress in the privatization and civil
service reform programs. The macroeconomic framework will be monitored in
conjunction with the IMF, with whom a close collaboration will continue to be maintained.
The Government's PFP/LDP will provide the framework for the SAC supervision. In this
regard, the first supervision mission is envisioned for August 1996 as part of the
preparations for the new PFP. At that time, IDA, together with the IMF, will review with
the Government progress in implementation of the reform program and define issues
which would be addressed in the update of the PFP. A second supervision mission is
envisioned for six months later, to finalize discussions of the PFP. It is expected that this
mission would be combined with a perforrnance review, prior to release of the second
tranche.



2
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
3.    The Ministry of Finance will have overall responsibility for management of the
program, and for monitoring and reporting requirements as described in Article III of the
Credit Agreement. As noted in Section III.C of the President's Report, a Presidential
Economic Commission has been established under the Chairmanship of the Head of State
and including representatives of the main implementing ministries as well as from the
private sector and the press. This Commission is specifically charged with monitoring the
implementation of the PFP, which has been published in its entirety. The Commission will
assess progress in program implementation against the benchmarks specified in the PFP,
thus increasing ownership of the program and enhancing the chances of successful
compliance.






IMAGING
Report No: P-   6837 KE
Type: PR



