Report No. PIC1418
Project Name                        Kenya-Structural Adjustment Credit I
Region                              Africa
Sector                              Multi-Sectoral
Project ID                          KEPA1334
Principal Responsible Entity        Republic of Kenya
Appraisal Date                      September 1995
Tentative Board Date                May 1996
Country Background
1.   After independence in 1963, Kenya experienced rapid economic
growth, with real GDP growth averaging more than 8 percent per year.
This growth was fueled by increasing agricultural production and high
levels of private investment. Economic growth slowed sharply in the
early 1970's, in the face of a weaker external environment and emerging
structural constraints. Economic growth slowed further in the 1980's
and early 1990's as the external environment remained weak and
macroeconomic imbalances began to emerge. To deal with these problems,
the Kenya Government adopted a series of adjustment programs beginning
in the late 1980's; however, continued weak budgetary discipline
undermined these programs and underlying structural problems such as
reform of the parastatal sector and civil service reform remained
largely unaddressed.
2.   Since 1993 the Government has been pursuing an ambitious program of
macroeconomic and structural reform. The key features of this program
are a reduction in the fiscal deficit and enhanced monetary discipline;
liberalization of external and internal markets; initiation of
parastatal reform based upon restructuring of strategic parastatals and
divestiture of non-strategic enterprises; and improved government
management through reduction of the size of the civil service and
reorganizing key ministries. Government performance under this program
has been generally good, with some key exceptions. The overall fiscal
deficit has been roughly in line with the program's target. Within this
target, however, the composition of expenditures has differed somewhat
from the original program, as government expenditure control was not
fully effective and the government was called upon to make debt service
payments on behalf of parastatals.    The performance was more impressive
in the area of liberalization as the Government moved forward rapidly on
elimination of exchange controls and abolished all export taxes and
virtually all export licenses. Partly in response to these measures,
Kenya benefited from sizable short-term capital inflows attracted by
high real interest rates; sterilization of this liquidity further
increased the Government's debt service burden, contributing to the
expenditure overrun. Internally, controls on prices and transportation
of maize were removed, increasing returns to farmers.
3.   Less progress was made in the areas of parastatal reform and
improving government efficiency. In spite of a delayed startup, the
privatization program has moved forward reasonably well; however, most



of the privatizations to date have been limited to cession of the
Government's participation in joint ventures. Restructuring of key
parastatals lagged considerably and they continue to represent a
significant drain on public finances. Civil service reform suffered
from a delayed startup and progress has been slow as well in these
rationalization of key ministries.
Proposed Structural Adjustment Credit
4.   Project Objectives.   The proposed adjustment credit focuses on
three areas critical for sustained economic progress: parastatal
reform, civil service reform, and expenditure allocations. Progress in
these areas is needed to ensure that while fiscal adjustment is pursued
longer-term development and poverty reduction needs are addressed.
5.   Project Components. The key measures in each of three areas are set
out below:
a.    Parastatal reform.   During the program period, the Government
would substantially accelerate progress in restructuring key parastatals
and reducing the size of the Government portfolio. By the end of the
period, all five of the major public enterprises will have been
restructured or operating under performance contracts. These programs
will involve increased managerial autonomy and accountability;
divestiture to the private sector of non-essential activities; and
reductions in staff size. In the area of divestiture, the Government
will have substantially completed the initial program of privatizations
and have initiated divestiture proceedings for a number of enterprises
formerly classified as strategic. In so doing, the Government will rely
to a greater degree on competitive bidding procedures and ensure greater
transparency in divestiture transactions.
b.   Civil service reform.   During the program period, the Government
will accelerate the pace of civil service reductions and ministerial
restructurings. During the period, departures from the civil service
via regular attrition or the voluntary retirement program will be at
least at a rate 16,000 per year. With limits on new hiring, the result
will be a substantial reduction in the total number of civil servants.
The Government will be in the process of implementing reorganization
plans for two ministries (Agriculture and Health) and have developed
restructuring plans for four others. An additional six ministries will
also be chosen for restructuring.
c.   Expenditure allocation.   In a context of continuing fiscal
adjustment and with debt service obligations consuming a large share of
Government revenues, the focus will be on improving the prioritization
of expenditures to maximize their impact on economic development and
poverty reduction. In the Development Budget this will involve
reallocation of resources to ensure full-funding of projects focusing on
core functions of the government: infrastructure, law and order and
provision of basic services. In the recurrent budget, this will involve
reallocation to ensure that basic health and education services are
adequately funded and sufficient resources are provided for maintenance
of water supply and roads.
-2-



6.   The credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches.    The first
tranche would be available upon credit effectiveness, and the second
tranche would become available on satisfactory implementation of the
reform program and fulfilent of the specific conditions for second
tranche release. The proceeds of the credit would be used to finance
general imports, subject to a negative list.
7.   Poverty Reduction.   The proposed SAC would assist in poverty
reduction in several respects. First, it would promote poverty
reduction by relaxing constraints to economic growth resulting from
enhanced efficiency in the public sector. Second, it would, through
improved prioritization of expenditures, seek to ensure that
expenditures key to poverty reduction, i.e., basic health and education
services, were adequately funded.    Third, by accelerating the pace of
reduction of high cost domestic debt, it would free up additional
budgetary resources for poverty reduction activities.
8.   Environmental Aspects.   No negative environmental impact from the
proposed credit is expected.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



