Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19111
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit: 2884-0-KE
April 12, 1999
Africa Technical Macroeconomics II
Country Department for Kenya
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Kenyan Shilling (Ksh)
US$1  =    KSh 62 (March 1999)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AT&H           African Tours and Hotels
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBK            Central Bank of Kenya
CCK            Communications Commission of Kenya
CSR            Civil Service Reform
CSRP           Civil Service Reform Program
ESAF           Enhance Structural Adjustment Facility
KPA            Kenya Ports Authority
KPC            Kenya Pipeline Corporation
KPLC           Kenya Power and Lighting Company
KPR            Kenya Petroleum Refineries
KPTC           Kenya Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
KRC            Kenya Railways Corporation
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
LRMC           Long Run Marginal Cost
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOH            Ministry of Health
NCPB           National Cereals and Produce Board
NSSF           National Social Security Fund
OP             Office of the President
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PIP            Public Investment Program
SAC            Structural Adjustment Credit
TKL            Telecommunication Kenya Limited
VERS           Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
Vice President: Mr. Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Director: Mr. Harold Wackman, AFMKKE
Technical Manager: Mr. Peter Miovic, AFTM2
Cluster Leader: Mr. Anand Rajaram, AFMKE
Responsible Staff: Mr. Albert Agbonyitor, AFTM2



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit: 2884-0-KE
Contents
PREFACE ........................... . . .
EVALUATIONSUMMAMAY
Introduction .
Implementation Experience and Results ........................... ,,.:.i
Assessment of Outcome.                                                                iii
Key Lessons Learnt .iv
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT .1
A. Introduction.1
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .
D. Sustainability of7Refonms.7
F. Borrower Performance                               .8
G. Assessment of Outcome                              .9
H. Follow-up Activities                              .9
I. The Main Lessons Learnt .........................    ,,.10
PART II: ATTACHMENT TABLES .12
Table 1: Summary ofAssessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Operations .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative EstimatedActual.                            15
Table 5a: Key Indicators ofProgram Implementation ..................................................................... 16
Table 5b: Status of Intermediate Actions To Be Taken By Is" May, 1998 .20
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators .24
Table 7: Major Studies Included in Project .25
Table 8a: Project Costs .26
Table 8b: Project Financing .                                                         26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .26
Table  10:  Status of Particular Covenants ...............................7................,   2
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .27
Table 12: Bank Resource - StaffInputs .28
Table 13: Bank Resources -Missions .28
APPENDIXI.29
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .29
Background .31
Use of Funds.31
The Execution of the Program.                                                         31
Lessons Learnt .34
APPENDiI II.35
RECENT ECONOMIC AND SOcIAL DEVELOPMENTS .35
Recent Economic Developments .35
Poverty and Social Developments .36
Challenges and Future Reforms.                                                        37
MAP IBRD 26150R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit: 2884-0-KE
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report of the Structural Adjustment Credit of
Kenya for which a credit amount of SDR 86.3 million, including IDA reflows allocation
of SDR 24.5 million, was approved on June 18, 1996. The Credit became effective on
June 24, 1996. Subsequently, two additional IDA reflows allocations amounting to a
total of SDR 31 million were approved.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998 without disbursing the second and final tranche
of SDR 61.9 million (US$ 88 million), because of poor implementation. The first tranche
of SDR 55.4 million (US $ 79.8 million) was disbursed on June 24, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Albert Agbonyitor (AFTM2) and reviewed by Peter Miovic,
Technical manager, and Fred Kilby, Lead Specialist (AFTM2). The following Resident
Mission staff participated in the ICR mission and contributed to the report: Anand
Rajaram (Cluster Leader), Lucas Ojiambo and Ian Knapp (AFMKE). Comments were
received from past task managers and sector specialists: Robert Blake (AFMUG), Ying
Liang (EMTTI), Said Al Habsy (LEGAF), Josphat Sasia and Christine Cornelius
(AFMKE). P. Amiri (AFC05) assisted with preparing statistical annexes. The staff
assistants for the task team were Julia Ooro (AFMKE) and Carol Ume (AFTM2).
Harold Wackman, Country Director, led the Bank mission team in discussing the initial
draft of the ICR with the officials of the Kenya Government. The discussions focused on
assessment of achievements under the SAC, the factors that account for the unsatisfactory
implementation, and the lessons for similar operations in the future.
The borrower provided written papers and documents on the implementation progress of
the SAC for preparing the ICR. In addition, the borrower contributed its own evaluation
of the credit, which is attached as Appendix I.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The main objective of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was to promote faster
growth and poverty reduction through measures focused on enhancing the performance
of key public institutions and fostering private sector expansion. The initial amount of the
SAC, including IDA reflows allocation of SDR 86.3 million, was approved by the Bank
Board on June 18, 1996. Subsequently, two IDA reflows allocations totaling SDR 31
million were approved. The SAC was designed to be disbursed in two tranches. The first
tranche of SDR 55.4 million (approximately $79.8 million) was released on June 24,
1996. The SAC was closed on June 30, 1998 without disbursing the second and last
tranche of SDR 61.9 million (approximately $88 million).
The SAC program aimed to improve basic infrastructure and human resource
development and, thereby, strengthen the base for accelerated economic growth and
poverty reduction. The principal reforms were focused on the following areas:
* Support the Government's efforts to consolidate its fiscal and financial position and
to sustain a stable macroeconomic stance in the medium term;
.  Improve the quality of public expenditures through expenditure reallocation to
priority activities in health, education and road maintenance, to trim the large public
investment program so as to emphasize high rate of return activities, and to improve
expenditure implementation;
*  Enhance the efficiency of the large infrastructure parastatals through restructuring and
divestiture, and to accelerate the privatization of the small scale parastatals so as to
improve services while reducing their burden on the budget; and
*  Improve the efficiency of the civil service by providing better incentives and building
needed capacity, eliminating redundancies through a voluntary retirement program,
and restructuring the roles and functions of 12 ministries.
The decision to proceed with the SAC was deemed appropriate at the time. The
Government had revived the reform program after 1992-93, with actions focused on
removing controls in the trade and exchange rate regime, agriculture marketing, industry
and the financial sector. There were also parastatal reforms accompanied by tighter fiscal
management. The release of the first tranche of the SAC at credit effectiveness was in
recognition of these prior actions. The conditions for the release of the second tranche
sought to consolidate these initial actions and to deepen the structural reforms.



ii
The main risk was failure of Government commitment. Since the previous election had
been associated with lax policies, the program contained measures to manage this risk.
Government was to implement specific actions (Table Sa Sections A and B) to underline
its commitment to the reforms. The SAC was based on policies set out in the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) of 1996, which was prepared with leadership of the Govemment.
A Presidential Commission was formed to oversee the implementation of the PFP. In
addition, the SAC was closely linked with a Three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). It was
envisaged that the implementation of the entire SAC program would have been
completed and the final tranche released well before the elections that were to be held
towards the end of 1997.
Implementation Experience and Results
Achievements during the SAC implementation period were disappointing.  The
authorities paid very little attention to implementing the SAC between the release of the
first tranche in June, 1996 and the elections at end of 1997. Macroeconomic
performance slipped in 1996/97 and continued to deteriorate through the first half of
1997/98, due to pay increases and spending overruns during the elections; revenue
shortfalls from the weakening of economic activity and deficiencies in tax administration;
and unexpected domestic interest payments. The fiscal deficit widened in the first half of
1997/98 to a projected 3.9 percent of GDP, more than twice the target, and there was a
loss of confidence in the economy, indicated by large capital outflows.
As the situation worsened the Government adopted a more open policy stance. It
organized workshop discussions on development objectives and the priorities of public
expenditure policy to gain support for the reforms and to boost confidence. A balanced
budget stance was adopted for the 1998/99 fiscal period; measures were taken to limit the
growth of the wage bill. The second phase of wage increases for the public service was
postponed, and a hiring freeze was imposed, except for selected specialized skills.
These efforts improved the macroeconomic situation somewhat. Overall inflation
decelerated to an annualized rate of 7.1 percent in November 1998, compared to over 10
percent in the preceding year. Real interest rates declined; the 91-day treasury bill rate
fell from over 25 percent to 17.6 percent in the year up to November 1998. The
deceleration of inflation and interest rates has continued to 6.6 percent and about 10
percent respectively in early 1999. However, the economy has remained in a slump,
continuing to experience a net outflow of long-term capital. The overall macroeconomic
outlook has remained fragile.
Partial results were achieved in improving public resource management. Financing for
road maintenance, a priority area, was increased through the Road Maintenance Levy; but
the objectives of shifting more resources to support priority non-wage activities in
primary education and preventive health were not achieved. During 1996/97- 1997/98,
the non-wage share of expenditures on primary education fell from 3.1 to 2.2 percent.
Similarly, in the health sector the share of preventive health services fell, instead of the



iii
planned increase. The unwieldy public investment program was reduced from 1224 to
664 projects. A transparent process for selecting core projects remains to be established.
In the parastatal sector, the reform of the large infrastructure entities slipped. Reaching a
political consensus on actions took longer than envisaged; there was bureaucratic inertia,
in addition to the slow pace of completing the technical work, including preparing the
necessary legislation for KPTC. The Government decided towards the end of the SAC
period to have a greater role for the private sector in operating the key parastatals in
telecommunication, the ports and the railways. These decisions, based on the technical
assistance work and feedback from actions already taken, represented significant
improvements in the design of the program. These measures remain to be implemented.
The civil service reform (CSR) program achieved a staff reduction of 21 percent during
1993-98, but the basic objective of creating a smaller, better paid and effective civil
service was frustrated. While the size of the civil service was being reduced, the total
number of public servants actually rose between 1992/93 and 1997/98 as more teachers
were hired and their pay increased. In addition, the aspect of the program aimed at
restructuring twelve ministries and their core functions made no progress beyond
initiatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and, to a lesser extent, the Ministry of Health.
The supervision mission that took place in February, 1998 pointed out to the authorities
that the prospects for implementing the SAC program on schedule satisfactorily had
diminished significantly. The Government which had just assumed office, following the
elections, argued that even though it could not fulfill all the SAC conditions as originally
scheduled, it still could implement a number of intermediate actions by May 1, 1998
which would indicate that each SAC condition was in the process of being met. This
would provide a basis for the Bank to consider a possible extension of the SAC. The
intermediate actions represented step by step measures that would fulfill the original
covenants.   The Bank agreed to GOK's proposal, and stressed that lack of
implementation of the agreed actions would lead to the closing of the SAC. In the event,
the implementation performance of the intermediate actions was not adequate to warrant
extending the SAC or waiving the unfulfilled conditions. Thus, the SAC was closed on
June 30, 1998 without disbursing the second and last tranche of $ 88 million.
Assessment of Outcome
The implementation of the program was partial and the outcome unsatisfactory. The
expectation of consolidating and then advancing the reforms in key areas in order to
enlist confidence in the Government's efforts was not realized. Yet, it is difficult to
assess the extent to which the present economic difficulties facing Kenya can be
attributed to the slow implementation of the reforms supported by the SAC. The poor
implementation has been compounded by severe adverse shocks, particularly the drought
conditions of late 1997 and the El Nino floods of early 1998. The floods, in particular,
disrupted agriculture and further degraded the already under-maintained major urban-
rural road corridors. Election disturbances and related insecurity reduced tourism. These
difficulties have been further complicated by a softening of demand for goods and



iv
services related to the accumulation of unpaid Government bills as well as the
weaknesses of the commercial banks, and reduced growth of credit to the private sector.
A worrisome aspect of these developments is the continuing economic slump with rising
unemployment and social distress. Real GDP growth was less than population growth at
2.3 percent in 1997, and is expected to have fallen further to 1.6 percent in 1998. The
slump affected the major sectors: agriculture; tourism; manufacturing; and government
services. The combination of decline in these sectors and the disruption of road access
for rural-urban markets means reduced incomes and limited access to social services.
These developments have consequences for household living conditions and poverty.
Key Lessons Learnt
The importance of Government commitment. Election year political considerations
have been cited as a major factor affecting the implementation of the SAC. It was
envisioned initially that the implementation of the program would be completed for the
second and final tranche to be released by July 1997; the election was to be held towards
the end of 1997. Instead, there was preoccupation with the elections from the start.
Perhaps, equally important, since the core of the SAC (involving the restructuring of
ministries, disposing of state-owned enterprises and redefining the priorities of the
government budget) was inherently political, strong leadership was needed to maintain
focus on the reforms. Ownership of the reform program within the various agencies of
the Government was not deep. It became obvious during supervision missions that some
implementing agencies were inclined to disown the program on the grounds that they had
not been involved in the policy formulation process, even though Government had played
a lead role in preparing the PFP on which the SAC was based. Clearly, the Bank
misjudged the extent of Govemment commitment to the reforms.
The experience has led to various suggestions about the approach to future reforms.
These suggestions are not necessarily mutually exclusive. One suggestion stresses the
importance of a reform process that is "owned" and "driven" by Kenyans, with the Bank
providing a catalytic role. A step in this regard would involve building on the recent
openness in policy debate and decision making through a participatory process that
enlists civic support for reforms.  Another step would involve deepening internal
consultation in the Government, particularly to include implementation agencies. A
second suggestion calls for exploring flexible tranche release arrangements. These may
range from (i) single tranche operations, based on up-front actions to (ii) multiple floating
tranche arrangements. A third suggestion stresses reform designs that are simple in terms
of institutional coordination, selective and focused on actions with significant potential
impact, and realistic in the timing of events. The potential pay-off from these efforts
might be consistent implementation and steady progress in achieving reform objectives
GOK needs to build confidence through steady and consistent implementation of reforms.
There is a perception that over the past decades, Kenya undertook reforms in fits and
starts. Thus, the efforts have not yielded expected results. This intermittent approach to
reform has undermined confidence among aid sources and business circles about



v
Government commitment. Establishing credibility through consistent implementation is
essential for building confidence and achieving results. Finally, staff turnover was cited
as a factor affecting commitment to implementation. While clearly not a substitute for
sustained Government commitment, staff continuity could have received greater attention
from both the Bank and the borrower, especially in view of the intensive technical work
and institution building initiatives that needed to be followed through under the program.
The importance of a coherent policy design. Given that containing the growth of the
Government wage bill was very critical for consolidating fiscal and financial stability, as
well as improving the management of public resources and redirecting support to priority
non-wage activities in the social sectors, the design of the reform program could have
been more effective in capturing the main pressure points on the wage bill. The staff
reduction and pay reform content of the civil service reform program was confined to
only a segment of public employees, excluding teachers who are under the personnel and
pay policies of the Teaching Service. Thus, while civil service numbers were being
reduced, the numbers of teachers being hired and their pay were being increased. The
gains from reducing the civil service were offset by increases in the teachers' wage bill.
Economic Governance. Performance on economic governance measures was less than
expected, and this affected overall policy performance. The IMF's first annual ESAF
arrangement expired at the end of July 1997 without completion of the midterm review,
because of Government failure to take action on important economic governance issues.
Key economic governance issues, especially combating corruption, enhancing
transparency in budget allocation, expenditure reporting, and enforcing accountability for
the use of public resources are now at the center of dialogue with the authorities.



1
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The SAC was based on Kenya Government's medium term economic policies set out in
the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1996-98, which was formulated in collaboration with the
Bank and the IMF and was distributed to the Board on February 23, 1996. The GOK played a
lead role in preparing the PFP; Cabinet approved the final document, which was published for
wide dissemination. The thrust of the Government's Letter of Development Policy which
accompanied the SAC was fully consistent with the PFP and the policies emphasized in the Bank
assistance strategy for Kenya.
2.    The Kenya SAC in the amount of SDR 61.8 million ($87 million approximately), plus
SDR 24.5 million in 1995/96 IDA reflows, was approved by the World Bank Board on June 18,
1996. The SAC was designed to be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of about $79.8
million, was released on June 24, 1996. Disbursement of the second tranche of SDR 30.9
million ($45 million) was originally envisioned for June, 1997. In addition, the Bank Board
approved 1996/97 IDA reflows allocation of SDR 18.5 million ($26 million) and 1997/98 IDA
reflows allocation of SDR 12.5 million ($17.5 million) linked to the release of the second tranche
of the SAC. The SAC was closed on schedule on June 30, 1998 without disbursing the second
and last tranche of SDR 61.9 million ($88 million), including IDA reflows.
3.    The decision to proceed with the SAC was deemed appropriate at the time. The main
expected benefits of the program were accelerated economic growth and poverty reduction. The
Government had revived reforms after 1992-93, with actions focused on removing controls in the
trade and exchange rate regime, agriculture marketing, industry and the financial sector. There
were also parastatal reforms accompanied by tighter fiscal management. The release of the first
tranche of the SAC at credit effectiveness was in recognition of these prior actions. The
structural reform measures constituting the conditions for the release of the second tranche
sought to consolidate the initial actions and to advance the reform process.
4.    The main risk was failure of Government commitment, given the pending elections.
Since the previous election was associated with lax fiscal discipline, the program sought to
manage this risk by insisting on specific actions and ensuring that a number of concrete steps
were taken on implementation prior to the start of the election period (See Table 5a). In
addition, the program was closely linked with a Three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. It was envisaged that the
implementation of the entire SAC program would have been completed and the final tranche
released before the elections to be held towards the end of 1997.
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
5.    The main goal of the government was to reduce unemployment and poverty through
accelerated economic growth and improved delivery of economic and social services. The SAC
was to serve as a major instrument for making progress on achieving Kenya's development
objective, focusing on reforms in the following main areas: (i) support GOK's efforts to
consolidate its fiscal position and to sustain stable fiscal and financial management in the
medium term; (ii) improve the quality of the public expenditure program through expenditure
reallocation and improved implementation; (iii) enhance the efficiency of the large infrastructure



2
parastatals through restructuring and divestiture and to reduce their burden on the budget; (iv)
limit the size of the public sector through accelerated privatization; and (v) improve the
efficiency of the civil service through voluntary retirement and rationalization of 12 ministries,
and providing better incentives to build needed capacity. These measures were to permit
increased budgetary support for services critical for economic growth and social development.
6.    Steady and consistent implementation was considered critical for getting results from the
program. There was the perception that Kenya did not benefit much from past reforms because
of intermittent implementation and periodic policy reversals. Technical assistance programs
preceding the start of the SAC were aimed at preparing the structural reforms and at making
accelerated implementation feasible.
7.    Macro-fiscal Framework The medium term reform program had the objective of
consolidating Kenya's external and internal balances and achieving an average growth rate of 6
percent, which was essential for making progress in poverty reduction. The program was to
achieve some specific macroeconomic targets with regard to price stability, revenue
mobilization, limiting the fiscal deficit, and reducing unpaid bills as well as domestic borrowing
and external deficits to sustainable levels.
8.    Public Resource Management Government sought to improve the effectiveness of
public resources with emphasis on strengthening the infrastructure and human resource base for
growth. The key measures to be taken included raising and maintaining the development budget
at 7 percent of GDP and shifting allocations towards priority economic and social services,
especially (a) road maintenance, (b) non-wage activities in primary education, (c) preventive
health services and (d) core projects in the public investment program (PIP).
9.    Parastatal Reforms.  The GOK's intention was to reduce subsidies, improve the
performance of public enterprises and expand private sector participation in providing
infrastructure services through parastatal restructuring, commercialization and privatization. The
major parastatals include: Kenya Ports Authority (KPA); Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC);
Kenya Posts and Telecommunication Corporation; (KPTC); Kenya Power and Lighting
Company (KPLC); National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) and National Social Security
Fund (NSSF). The Government exempted KPA, KRC, KPTC, KPLC and NCPB from the State
Corporations Act in order to foster managerial autonomy and accountability, and to improve
their performance. Work was to be initiated on the divestiture of Kenya Pipeline Corporation
(KPC) and Kenya Petroleum Refineries (KPR). By the end of 1997, GOK was to complete the
privatization of close to 100 parastatals mainly in the agriculture, textile and banking sectors.
10.   Civil Service Reform  The program sought to shape a more responsive civil service
through measures aimed at reducing staff, improving establishment control, rationalizing
selected ministries and reforming the pay system to provide incentive compensation. While
limiting new hiring, the program was to strengthen capacity by protecting the most highly skilled
personnel. These measures were to be implemented in a manner consistent with fiscal prudence
and budgetary resource availability.
C. Achievement of Program Objectives
11. Achievements during the SAC implementation period were far less than expected. Other
than the restructuring of the NSSF - which did not help to improve its performance because of
poor management - implementation decelerated in virtually all other areas between the release of



3
the first tranche of the SAC in June, 1996 and the elections at the end of 1997. Fiscal discipline
was lax; parastatal reforms made slow progress; the expected shifts in allocations for selected
priority social and economic services were not realized. This poor implementation performance
affected other parallel reform programs. For example, the IMF's ESAF arrangement expired in
July 1997, without completing the mid-term review because of the failure of the authorities to act
on important economic governance measures.
12.   While the implementation of reforms was revived after the elections in the last quarter of
1997/98 just before the closure of the SAC, the pace was disappointingly slow. The underlying
conditions of the program had changed, and more far-reaching reforms were warranted,
especially in the railway and port sectors, and in the civil service reform program. In realization
of this, Government took a decision to pursue stronger reforms involving a greater role for the
private sector in the strategic parastatals, such as in telecommunication, the ports and the
railways. These decisions remain to be followed through with effective implementation.
13.   Macroeconomic Framework. Fiscal performance worsened with a deficit - on a
commitment basis and excluding grants - exceeding its target in 1996/97, and widening in the
first half of 1997/98 to a projected 3.9 percent of GDP, compared to the initial target of 1.7
percent of GDP. The continued fiscal deterioration in 1997/98 reflected pay increases given to
teachers and civil servants together with spending overruns during the elections, revenue
shortfalls from the weakening of economic activity and deficiencies in tax administration, and
unexpected domestic interest payments.
14.   Government took steps to revise the budget framework, and additional revenue and
expenditure measures were adopted in February 1998 as part of the revised interim program.
This effort helped to contain the fiscal deterioration, and the 1997/98 fiscal deficit was 2.4
percent of GDP, within the revised target of 2.5 percent of GDP; the revised targets for revenues
and net domestic borrowing were also achieved. However, expenditure exceeded its target, and
arrears rose to over K Sh 10 billion, about 1.8 percent of GDP, instead of a projected decline.
15.   GOK took further measures as the combination of fiscal deficit pressure and rising real
interest rates, together with net outflow of long term capital and worsening external imbalances,
raised serious concerns about loss of confidence in the economy. The Government saw the value
of a more open policy to gain support for needed reforms, and it organized workshop discussions
on development objectives and priorities of public expenditure policy. A balanced budget stance
was adopted for the 1998/99 fiscal period; measures were announced to limit the growth of the
wage bill to a target equivalent to 39 percent of the recurrent budget, about the same as the actual
for 1997/98. The second phase of wage increases for public servants was postponed, and a
hiring freeze was imposed, except for selected specialized skills.
16.   These efforts have improved the macroeconomic environment somewhat. Overall
inflation has decelerated to an annualized rate of 7.1 percent in November 1998, compared to
over 10 percent in the preceding year. Real interest rates have declined; the 91-day treasury bill
rate fell from over 25 percent to 17.6 percent in the year up to November 1998. The deceleration
of inflation and decline of interest rates is continuing into 1999. The balance of payments rose to
a surplus of $ 112 million in October 1998, due mainly to a sharper fall in imports relative to
exports, and short-term capital inflows. However, the economy has continued to experience a
net outflow of long-term capital. The macroeconomic outlook has remained fragile.



4
17.   Public Resource Management Efforts made to redirect public resources to selected
priorities achieved partial results. While support for road maintenance was increased, the
objective of shifting more resources to support non-wage activities in primary education and
preventive health proved difficult to achieve. During 1996/97- 1997/98, the non-wage share of
expenditures on primary education fell from 3.1 to 2.2 percent. Critical actions to restructure the
curriculum, and raise class size and pupil-teacher ratios are needed to contain the growth of the
teachers' wage bill. In the health sector the share of preventive health from the budget fell from
14.7 to 13.9 percent, instead of the expected increase. The public investment program (PIP) was
reviewed to eliminate low priority activities, and the number of projects was cut from 1224 to
664 in the 1998/99 budget. This initial prioritization requires a transparent process to sustain it.
18.   Parastatal Reforms. The restructuring and divestiture of the large infrastructure
parastatals constituting the heart of the program did not progress at the pace that had been
initially envisaged. In some cases, the required technical work took more time than initially
expected.  In other cases, action was often delayed by lack of political consensus and
bureaucratic inertia even though adequate technical preparation had been done. In energy, for
example, performance contracts between GOK, and KPLC and KPC were finalized and had been
awaiting executive approval for several months. The privatization of various enterprises, such as
for sugar, textiles and hotels, made relatively slow progress.  In some cases the bid by
prospective buyers was considered rather too low, and the bid process was reopened.
19.   Legislation to restructure KPTC was passed and cabinet decision to privatize KPA was
made after the SAC was closed. Parliament passed a bill to restructure KPTC by splitting it into
two separate companies plus a regulatory agency.  Following a workshop to examine
privatization options for the KPA, it was decided to award a concession on the container terminal
and to privatize stevedoring, tug boat and pilotage services, while KPA would become landlord
port authority overseeing privatized operations. Similarly for KRC, a decision - yet to be
implemented - was made to award a concession to a single operator. Clearly, a stronger program
for KRC and KPA emerged as it became clear that more far reaching measures, including a
greater private sector role, were warranted to improve the performance of the entities; however,
these measures remain to be followed through with implementation. Action on other parastatals,
such as Kenya Refinery, remains to be taken; the reform of the electricity tariff policy, for
example, is awaiting the completion of the tariff study and a power purchase agreement.
20.   In the case of the privatization of the non-strategic parastatal units, 13 out of 97 targeted
entities remain to be completed. The program for 1998 included the 4 companies left from the
previous year-- Kenya Reinsurance; Africa Tours and Hotels (AT&H); Mumias and Chemelil--
plus 9 new companies. The privatization of other parastatals, including textile units and African
Tours and Hotels, is in progress at various stages of implementation.
21.   The status of the sugar sector remains problematic. Of the two mills to be privatized,
Mumias is being evaluated. Meanwhile, the financial performance of the Chemelil mill has
deteriorated, undermining potential private sector interest. Much more critical is the need for
coherent policies (A Sugar Policy Framework and Sugar Bill have been drafted and awaiting
cabinet approval) to give clear signals to investors and the over 2 million people estimated to be
operating in the sugar industry. Among the key issues requiring attention are: an open dialogue
with all stakeholders in the industry; raw cane production and marketing policy to redress high
incidence of cane rotting caused by failure to pay producers and inadequate crushing capacity;



5
the organization of the sugar market, including pricing, import and tariff policies; financial
irregularities of sugar companies; and cost competitiveness of local sugar production.
22.    Civil Service Reform  The civil service reform (CSR) program accomplished some staff
reduction. Of the 63,015 staff reduction that took place between July 1993 and February 1998,
43 percent was due to natural attrition and the rest to reduction in the lowest ranks, such as
drivers, clerks and messengers. Some 12,000 of those retired were subsequently replaced.
Moreover, because of increases in the hiring of teachers, the total number of public servants rose
between 1992/93 and 1997/98, instead of the expected decline.
23.   In the area of ministerial rationalization, the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture
was initiated, focusing on (i) selecting core functions, (ii) revising the budget format in line with
core functions, (iii) merging the departments of agriculture and livestock production and
upgrading relevant posts, and (iv) unifying extension services. The implementation of the new
structure for the Ministry of Agriculture is progressing slowly.
24.   While the CSR helped to reduce the size of the civil service and to contain its growth, it
made little progress on two main objectives. First, mainly because of more hiring of teachers and
sharp increases in their pay, the total Govemment wage bill remained large, making it difficult to
provide an incentive pay structure for the civil service. The high wage bill also undercut the
planned increase for non-wage operation and maintenance costs necessary to improve basic
services. Second, the ministerial rationalization plan for eleven of twelve ministries was not
approved; progress in the rationalization was minimal even though some reforms which did not
require cabinet approval were implemented.' The inaction is attributed to the complexity of the
program, but the fact that it was not possible to accomplish the rationalization of even one
ministry, apart from the initiatives in the ministry of agriculture, reflects more on the willingness
to undertake the reforms. The ministerial rationalization program was inherently political, and
required support at the highest levels of political authority. It was unlikely that ministries would
voluntarily restructure in absence of a strong political consensus and direction.
25.    Closing The SAC  Overall, the authorities paid very little attention to implementing the
SAC after the first tranche was released in June, 1996. The SAC supervision mission that took
place in February, 1998 pointed out to the authorities that the prospects for implementing the
program on schedule satisfactorily had diminished significantly. The Govemment which had
just assumed office, following the elections, argued that even though it could not fulfill all the
SAC conditions as originally scheduled, it still could implement a number of intermediate
actions (Table Sb) by May 1, 1998 which would indicate that each SAC condition was in the
process of being met. This would provide a basis for the Bank to consider a possible extension
of the SAC. The intermediate actions represented step by step measures that would fulfill the
original covenants.   The Bank agreed to  GOK's proposal, and  stressed that lack  of
Govermnent undertook some civil service reform measures which were part of the IMF's ESAF program, but not
part of the SAC. These include: elimination of 613 ghost workers; adoption of a pilot program for Payroll
Management and Personnel Information Systems through the introduction of an Integrated payroll and
Personnel Database (IPPD) covering six ministries and one department; and development of staffing norms. In
addition, the Ministry of Health (MOH) is implementing rationalization measures that do not require cabinet
approval. For example, MOH is taking steps to decentralize service management and financing decisions to
districts and hospital health boards.



6
implementation of the agreed actions would lead to the closing of the SAC and cancellation of
the second tranche together with the IDA reflows.
26. The supervision mission that visited Kenya from May 27 to June 4th 1998 found that
performance in implementing even the intermediate actions agreed in February was
unsatisfactory, and that the progress made was not sufficient to justify extending the SAC.
Moreover, the condition of some enterprises had changed with the delays, and more far reaching
measures were needed. For example, a greater private sector role was being considered for
KPTC, KRC and KPA. The civil service reform program was being redesigned to stress
fundamental reforms involving redefining the core functions and priorities of Government,
rationalizing the key ministries accordingly, and adopting new expenditure policies that will
support the changing role of the Government. It was, therefore, decided to close the SAC to
provide scope for a new program which would be more relevant to the changing situation.2
27. Why was implementation unsatisfactory, despite the initial actions that the GOK had taken
to signal commitment to the program? To put this question in context, it is important to note that
the Government adopted significant market reforms, including the liberalization of the exchange
rate, trade policy, and agricultural markets prior to the SAC. The privatization program was
initiated in 1992, and IDA-financed technical assistance to support it followed in 1993. The civil
service reform action program was adopted in 1992 and was supported by an institutional
development technical assistance financed by IDA in 1995. The SAC was based on the 1996-98
PFP, which was prepared with leadership of the Kenya Government; a Presidential Economic
Commission was formed to oversee its implementation. The GOK took a series of tangible
actions prior to negotiation and presentation of the SAC to the Board (See Table 5a). It was
thought that these actions would demonstrate Government commitment to accomplish the SAC
program. The SAC was firther reinforced by an ESAF arrangement with the IMF, which
stressed the same themes of public sector reform, as well as improvement in economic
governance through accountability and transparent fiscal management.
28.   Election year political considerations have been cited as a major factor affecting the
implementation of the SAC. It was envisioned initially that the implementation of the program
would be accomplished within a year after Board presentation, and that the second and final
tranche would be released by July 1997; the election was to be held towards the end of 1997.
Instead there was preoccupation with the elections from the start. Perhaps, more important was a
need for leadership willing to drive the reform process, despite the elections. The commitment
to reforms demonstrated by the prior actions turned out to be insufficient, wanting a strong
consensus as well as support at the highest levels of executive authority.
29.   There is a perception that interest in the reform program initially was influenced mainly
by the expected IDA credit, rather than a reform-oriented consensus capable of influencing the
process in the proper direction. It became evident during supervision missions that documents
that needed approval by concerned departments to advance the reform process were often
delayed, sometimes for months, even though a collective decision had been taken to proceed
with1 the program. There was a tendency of some agencies to disclaim knowledge and ownership
of reform policies. Some agencies claimed that deeper consultation in formulating the program
might have helped to enlist their support and, thereby, limit delays in implementation.
2 The CAS that went to the Board on September 24, 1998 reflected the new thrust of reforms.



7
30.   The implementation experience with regard to the SAC during this period paralleled that
of the ESAF arrangement of the IMF. The IMF's first annual ESAF arrangement expired at the
end of July 1997 without completion of the midterm review, because of Government failure to
take action on important economic governance issues. The main governance issues concerned (i)
the enforcement of accountability with regard to financial infractions related to gold and
diamond export compensation, (ii) the establishment of the Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority,
(iii) safeguarding the independence of the Kenya Revenue Authority, and (iv) the strengthening
of the management of the energy sector. At a more general level, a review of ESAF
arrangements undertaken by the IMF in 1997 point to a need to foster ownership of reforms by
supporting consensus building and wider policy debate in the Government as well as in civil
society.
D. Sustainability of Reforms
31.   The sustainability of the reforms is uncertain. However, it is relevant to note that despite
the overall unsatisfactory implementation, the authorities revived the program after the elections
and continued its implementation, though at a slow pace, after the SAC was closed. This revival
of the reform effort is at least a step in the direction of building a sustainable program.
32.   The experience with the SAC led to more openness, which may be gaining momentum.
As part of this openness, GOK organized workshops to facilitate open debate on the crisis in the
economy and on national development priorities. This open process paved the way to take
painful, corrective measures. While the fiscal situation is fragile, the unsustainable expansion
was contained with the scaling back of the large PIP, suspension of the second phase of public
sector pay increases which the budget could not sustain, limits on new hiring and on the total
wage bill, and the adoption of a balanced budget stance for 1998/99.
33.   The civil service and parastatal reforms are continuing. GOK's request to IDA to extend
the technical assistance for a re-designed civil service reform program has been granted. The
program is now focused on rationalizing the ministries and the related expenditure budgets in
line with redefined core functions of Government. As noted earlier, in the case of the
infrastructure parastatals, GOK has decided on a stronger program with greater private sector
role than initially envisaged. The Government has requested that the IDA-supported technical
assistance program for parastatal reforms be extended to continue the implementation effort.
E. Bank Performance
34.   The Bank and the Government correctly identified the key components of the reform
program as critical for fostering faster economic growth and poverty reduction. The Bank
recognized the complex institutional content of the reforms; thus, the SAC was preceded by a
technical assistance program to augment Government capacity in preparing and implementing
the reforms. But the complexity of the program cannot explain why not a single ministry out of
twelve was able to complete its rationalization program, beyond the initiatives of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Clearly, the Bank misjudged the extent of political commitment to the reforms.
When implementation faltered, this problem was clearly diagnosed.
35.  In retrospect, despite the prior actions taken by the Government to signal commitment to
the reforms, the Bank could have strengthened Government ownership by assisting to deepen
policy debate in the Government and to broaden consultation with civil society. A review of
ESAF programs conducted by the IMEF in 1997 also stressed a need for such ownership and
consensus building through wider policy debate and consultation.



8
36.   The Bank was responsive to the borrower in supervising the SAC. Following the
election, the Bank was willing to give the new Government the benefit of the doubt, and was
flexible in responding to the request to formulate intermediate steps that might foster accelerated
implementation and constitute a basis for a decision on whether or not to extend the SAC. The
Bank decided to cancel the SAC as it became clear that satisfactory completion was unlikely and
more far-reaching measures were needed to achieve the program's objectives. The Bank also
felt that the old method of extending the closing date tended to cause a preoccupation by the
Government with the release of the tranche; this distracted attention from the substantive actions
that would sustain the reform process after the SAC period.
37.   Some aspects of the reforms could have been designed in a more comprehensive
framework to capture the critical pressure points on the budget and the program. For example,
the staff reduction and pay reform policies pursued under the civil service reform program
excluded teachers who are under the personnel and pay policies of the Teaching Service. While
civil service numbers were being reduced, the numbers of teachers being hired and their pay was
being increased. These increases offset the gains from the civil service reform program. A more
coherent design covering all public sector employees could have limited this conflict.
38.   Staff turnover on the part of the Bank (as well as the borrower) was cited as affecting
implementation. While clearly not a substitute for sustained Government commitment, staff
continuity could have received greater attention from both the Bank and the borrower, especially
in view of the intensive technical work and institution building initiatives that needed to be
followed through under the program.
F. Borrower Performance
39.   The borrower's performance went through various phases. Initially, the borrower put
considerable technical effort in preparing the reform program, and it took several prior actions
which conveyed commitment to the program. The prior actions and preparation, coupled with
cabinet approval of the Letter of Development Policy, suggested strong commitment to follow
through with implementation. But the perceived commitment turned out to be lacking as the
borrower's interest declined exponentially from the time of the release of the first tranche to the
end of the elections. Following the elections, the borrower's interest was revived as the time to
close the SAC was approaching; but momentum had been lost. In preparing the reform program,
the borrower could have used broader consultation to seek support and understanding within
civil society and to build ownership among the implementing agencies in the Govemment.
40.   The borrower was responsive to the mounting financial and fiscal pressures and concerns
about loss of confidence in the economy, and initiated open discussions with civil society on the
economic difficulties and the priorities of national development policy. The open policy helped
to build a broader support among the implementing agencies for continuing the reform process.
41.   The borrower improved the design of the initial program through the technical assistance
work and feedback from the reform actions already taken. In the case of the parastatal reforms,
the authorities took a decision to adopt a stronger program, representing a greater role for the
private sector than initially envisaged (See para. 45). These actions would serve the economy
well, if implemented. The borrower observed the specific covenants regarding the program (See
Table 10) and willingly provided information requested to assess the progress of the reforms.



9
G. Assessment of Outcome
42.   The overall outcome of the reform program was unsatisfactory. Yet, it is difficult to
assess the extent to which Kenya's present difficulties can be attributed to the slow
implementation of the reforms supported by the SAC. The weak implementation has been
compounded by adverse shocks, particularly bad weather conditions. The El Nino floods further
degraded the already under-maintained, but important, rural-urban road corridors and disrupted
agriculture. Election disturbances and related insecurity reduced tourist arrivals. The situation
has been further complicated by serious weaknesses of the commercial banks, reflected in the
rising share of non-performing loans and reduced growth of credit to the private sector.
43.   At the time of closing the SAC, insufficient progress had been made towards achieving
the objectives of consolidating fiscal and financial stability, accelerating GDP growth and
reducing poverty. The macroeconomic outlook has been mixed with deceleration in inflation to
an annualized rate of 7.1 percent in November, 1998. The inflation pattern contributed to
lowering real interest rates; the 91-day Treasury bills rate, for example, fell from 27 to 17.6
percent between April and November 1998. Inflation and interest rates continued to decelerate
after the closure of the SAC, reaching 6.6 and about 10 percent respectively in early 1999. The
economy continues to experience net outflow of long term capital.
44.   A  most worrisome development is the continuing economic slump with rising
unemployment and social distress. Real GDP growth was less than population growth at 2.3
percent in 1997, and is expected to have fallen further to 1.6 percent in 1998. The slump in 1997
affected agriculture, manufacturing, tourism and government services. The combination of
decline in agriculture, tourism and Government services, and the disruption of road access to
rural-urban markets means reduced incomes and limited access to social services.  These
developments have consequences for household living conditions and poverty reduction.
H. Follow-up Activities
45.   The SAC and associated technical assistance provided a valuable learning experience for
the implementing agencies, enabling better understanding of problems and improving the design
of the program. For example, the strategy for KRC shifted from the contracting of the
maintenance of locomotives to the concession of operations to the private sector. Similarly,
reforms regarding the restructuring of KPA and KPTC now involve a greater role for the private
sector in operating services. The CSR program is being redesigned to emphasize institutional
change, especially changes in the role and core functions of Government and restructuring of
ministries. The CSR program is a prerequisite for undertaking other tasks currently in progress,
including the formulation of medium-term  expenditure framework.  These decisions to
strengthen the reform program need to be followed up with implementation.
46. While the regulatory framework for telecommunication is being established with the
support of a consultant, CCK needs: (i) assistance for its institutional establishment, especially
organizational structure, working procedures, staffing and facilities; (ii) equipment mainly for
frequency management; and (iii) operational assistance for capacity building. POSTA, which
was one of the units created from the break-up of the KPTC, is financially weak and cannot
survive without aggressive development. POSTA is losing market share for express mail. It
needs computerization mainly for developing its business, especially bill collection, mail order
business and tracing of mail services.



10
47.   KPA, which is expected to serve as land lord port authority in overseeing the operation of
privatized activities in the ports, needs capacity to perform its role in monitoring the quality of
services and ensuring port safety standards. The reform of KRC is also being strengthened by a
cabinet decision to move from management contracting to the award of concession to a private
sector operator. The Government has requested a follow-up technical assistance project to
follow up on the implementation effort.
I. The Main Lessons Learnt
48.   First, obviously, is the importance of Government commitment for achieving satisfactory
implementation. GOK needs to build confidence in the aid and business communities through
consistent implementation of reforms. Equally important is the need for an open decision
process that enlists support for reforms among concerned constituencies in the civic society and
in the Government. Second, is the importance of a comprehensive policy design that captures
the main pressures on the key objectives. The rest of this section will illustrate these lessons, and
conclude with a note on the need for staff continuity in managing the program.
49.   The importance of Government commitment As noted earlier, insufficient Government
commitment was a major factor underlying the poor implementation of the SAC. Since the core
of the SAC - involving the restructuring of ministries, disposing of state-owned enterprises and
redefining the priorities of the government budget - was inherently political, a strong political
leadership was needed to maintain focus on the reforms, especially in an election year. There
was a tendency of some implementing agencies to disown the program on the grounds that they
had not been involved in the policy formulation and negotiation process, even though
Government had played a lead role in preparing the PFP on which the SAC was based. In some
instances documents that needed to be approved were delayed in some departments for months
even though a collective decision might have been taken to proceed with the program.
Discussions during supervision missions convey subtle differences in perception with regard to
Government ownership at the top and ownership at the level of specific departmental
implementation agencies.
50. Various suggestions have emerged about the approach to future reforms that might yield
better implementation results in Kenya.  These suggestions are not necessarily mutually
exclusive. One key suggestion is to stress a reform process that is "owned" and "driven" by
Kenyans, with the Bank providing a catalytic role. A step in this regard would involve building
on the recent openness in policy debate and decision making through a participatory process that
would enlist broad civic support for reforms. Another step would involve deepening the internal
consultation processes in the Government, especially to include implementation agencies. A
second suggestion calls for exploring flexible tranche release arrangements. In this connection,
some advocate single tranche operations based on up-front actions; others advocate multiple,
flexible floating tranche arrangements. A third suggestion stresses designing future reforms to
be selective in coverage and focused on actions with significant potential impact, simple in terms
of institutional coordination, and realistic in the timing of actions. The potential pay-off from
these efforts might be consistent implementation and achievement of reform objectives.
51.   GOK needs to build confidence through steady and consistent implementation of reforms.
There is a perception that over the past decades, Kenya undertook reforms in fits and starts.
Thus, the efforts have not yielded expected results. Moreover, this intermittent approach to
reform has undermined confidence among aid sources and business circles about Government



11
commitment. To the extent that pronouncements and other signals given by the Government
about policy reform are no longer credible, various actors will think that the initiatives will not
be followed through; this will undercut support for the program and make failure much more
likely. An important aspect of building confidence is sustained action on important economic
governance measures. Examples include strengthening the legal system and anti-corruption
institutions and strengthening expenditure monitoring to promote transparency and enforce
accountability for the use of public resources.
52.   Finally, staff turnover with regard to both the Bank and the borrower has been cited as a
factor affecting implementation. In this regard, the Bank and the borrower could have paid
greater attention to ensuring staff continuity, especially in view of the intensive technical work
and institution building initiatives that needed to be followed through.
53.   The role of a coherent policy design. Given that containing the growth of the wage bill
was very critical for consolidating fiscal and financial stability as well as improving the
management of public resources and redirecting support to non-wage activities in the social
sectors, the design of the reforms could have been more effective in capturing the main pressure
points on the wage bill. For example, the staff reduction and pay reform content of the civil
service reform program was confined to only a segment of public employees, excluding teachers
who are under the personnel policies of the Teaching Service. Thus, while civil service numbers
were being reduced, the numbers of teachers being hired and their pay were being increased.
The civil service numbers fell by 21.4 percent between 1992/93 and 1997/98, while the numbers
of teachers rose by 21.8 percent during the same period. Thus, the gains from reducing the size
of the civil service were offset by increases in the wage bill for the teachers. A coherent
personnel and pay policy covering all public sector employees would have avoided this conflict.
54.   There were systemic pressures on the budget, which made it difficult to shift resources to
priority non-wage activities in the social sectors. The existing budgeting system does not
provide reliable allocations; it involves periodic revision of sector allocations throughout the year
and, therefore, undermines orderly execution of programs. To support orderly planning and
delivery of service, the authorities have started preparations for fundamental reforms,
emphasizing a redefined and more focused role of the Government in selective areas, a medium
term expenditure perspective that will reflect the core functions of the Government, a budgeting
process based on realistic resource estimates that will provide predictable allocations for sector
activities and enforcement of public accountability.



12
PART I: ATTACHMENT TABLES
Table 1:  Sunimary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Operations
Table 3:  Project Time Table
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5a: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Table 5b: Key Indicators of Implementation of Intermediate Actions
Table 6:  Performance Indicators
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project
Table 8a: Project Costs
Table 8b: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Benefits and Costs
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Tables 9 and 11 are not applicable



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                Substantial           Partial        Negligible        Not applicable
Macro policies                                                  [Ix
Sector policies                                       |ZI]
Financial objectives                                                X
Institutional development                 [                    [                     X
Physical objectives                                                             [        Z          [l| X     1
Poverty reduction                          LIx Z
Gender issues                                                                        X
Other social objectives                     Z Z                                 F   il]
Environmental objectives                            l          L                       i                X
Public sector management                                       [111]              I     I            I     I
Private sector development                            |        |_
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability                                        Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank performance                                               Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                                                       -| X
Preparation assistance                                                           r
Appraisal                                                              l             W
Supervision
D. Borrower performance                                           lighly
satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                                             7  |       |    X
Implementation                                                                                          X
Covenant compliance                                 l            L              |   x
Highly                                                   Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                   satisfactory         Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
E-                                        W X



14
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Credit Title                          Purpose as it                     Fiscal Year                 Status
relates to SAC
*   Energy Sector reform               *   Improve reliability of power                 1997               Under supervision
supply
*   Institutional Development          *   Project to support civil service             1993                   Extended
reforms
*   Parastatal Reform and              *   Technical assistance program to              1992               Under supervision
Privatization                          support the divestiture and
restructuring of parastatals
|   Financial Sector TA Project        *   Technical assistance to support              1989                  In progress
(Informal)                             financial sector reform
*   Kenya Railwnay Project             *   Restructure the railway                      1987                    Closed
corporation and improve its
management and operation
*   Agriculture Sector Adjustment II  *   Restructure the sector and raise              1991                    Closed
agriculture productivity and
growth
bJ________________________________      _________________________________      ______________________      __________________



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date            Actual
Steps in Project Cycle                               Planned           Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                              6/17/94
Preparation                                                             8/8/94
Appraisal                                                               9/1/95
Negotiations                                                            4/15/96
Letter of development policy                                            4/16/96
Board presentation                                                      6/18/96
Signing                                                                6/20/96
Effectiveness                                         6/30/96           6/24/96
First tranche release                                6/30/96            6/24/96
Second tranche release                                 6/30/97           --
Loan closing                                          6/30/98          6/30/98
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated Actual
(UJS$ million)
FY1996               FY1997
Appraisal estimate                           81.80                 54.0
Actual                                       79.83
Actual as % of estimate                      98%
Date of final disbursement                   -



16
Table 5a: Key Indicators of Program Implementation
Expected                                                                        Actual
A. Actions Required Before Negotiations (4-15-96)
*  Al. Exempt KPA, KPLC, KPTC, KRC and NCPB from the provisions of the State  *   This was done on February 21, 1996
Corporation Act to enhance their managerial autonomy and performance.
*  A2. Cabinet approval of memorandum on the restructuring of KRC              *  Memorandum was approved
*  A3. Agree with IDA on a draft contract to implement the commercialization of NCPB   *   A draft contract was prepared and bids were solicited from outside firms. A pre-bid
and issue invitation to bid to outside experts.                                conference with interested bidders took place in the week of April 8, 1996
*   A4. Announce decision to increase the electricity tariff to 75 percent of LRMC.  *   This increase was announced in the media on April 12, 1996
*  A5. Cabinet approval of KPTC restructuring/privatization program            *   The Cabinet approved the proposed program in March, 1996.
*  A6. Formally instruct NSSF to invest its funds only in Government securities, except  *   The Government representatives gave the delegation a copy of a letter from the
for deposits in reputable banks of up to 15 percent of assets and initiate work on the  Finance Minister instructing NSSF along these lines, and work is underway on the
conversion of NSSF into an autonomous pension fund.                            conversion of NSSF.
*  A7. Management contract with an outside operator to operate and manage the container  *   The Government delegation said that the Government is discussing with Singapore
terminal of KPA at Mombassa                                                    Port Authority (SPA) a contract to operate and manage the container terminal of
KPA at Mombassa. However, a number of issues needed to be resolved, notably the
details of the fee to be paid to SPA. While the Government hoped to reach
agreement with SPA on a contract, it was possible that the Government might seek
out other operators for the contract. The Government delegation agreed to advise the
Association on the status of these discussions.(see B5).
B. Actions Required Before Board Presentation (6 - 18 - 96)
*   B 1. Satisfied conditions for presenting a 3-year ESAF arrangement to the IMF Board.  *   The condition was fulfilled.
Presentation was scheduled for April 26 subject to completion of certain prior actions.
*   B2. Completed the public expenditure review and agreed with IDA on spending  *   The condition was fulfilled.
allocations in the 1996/97 budget.
*  B3. Submitted legislation to Parliament for splitting of KPTC  into three separate  *   Implementation slipped. A bill was submitted to Parliament in 1996, but was later
entities.                                                                      withdrawn. A second bill was submitted to Parliament and passed in July, 1998.
*   B4. Issued bids to independent power producers for electricity generation  *   Bids were issued on July 5, 1996.
*   B5. Have entered into active negotiations with one or more outside operators for the  *   GOK signed a management contract with an outside management agency in March,
operation and management of the container terminal of KPA at Mombassa.         1996; this met the condition technically. A year later, the contract for the container
terminal at KPA was suspended by Felixstowe, the management company. GOK
later shifted the reform strategy to private concession of key KPA services (see CS8)._|



17
Table 5a: Key Indicators of Program Implementation
Expected                                                                        Actual
C. Actions to be Taken Before Second Tranche Release
Macroeconomics Framework
*   Cl . An overall satisfactory progress by the Borrower in the carrying out of the program.  *   The pace of the implementation of the SAC decelerated after the first tranche was
This includes maintaining improvement in the macroeconomic framework (See C2)  released in June, 1996. By the time the SAC closed at the end of June, 1998 only
consistent with program objectives and maintaining satisfactory implementation of  two conditions, (see C6 and CIO) were fulfilled. In the case of C6, the National
agreed actions (See C3 to C12)..                                               Social Security Fund (NSSF) remained fnancially weak. Similarly for C 10, some of
the objectives of the civil service reform program remain to be achieved. Macro-
economic performance was unsatisfactory, and most of the parastatal reform
conditions were either not fulfilled or only partially fulfilled. The implementation of
reforms continued after the SAC was closed, though progress is slow.
*   C2. A macro-economic framework consistent with the objectives of the program  *   The initial macroeconomic framework went off-track. A revised framework with
new targets was formulated with IMF-staff support in March 1998, involving new
revenue and expenditure measures. Based on the revised targets, fiscal perfonnance
improved during the last quarter of 1997/98. By June-end, 1998, the targets for
revenues, the fiscal deficit and domestic borrowing were achieved. However,
recurrent and development expenditures, and pending bills exceeded their targets.
Parastatal Restructuring/Privatization
*   C3. KRC has signed maintenance contracts, on terns and conditions acceptable to the  *  Implementation Slipped. KRC signed a contract with General Electric for the
Association, for the maintenance of its locomotives by private contractors.    rehabilitation and maintenance of 1993/94 class of locomotives. A second contract
was signed to rebuild the 1987 class of locomotives. As the performance of KRC
deteriorated, a more far reaching reform was adopted. Cabinet decided on June 8,
1998 to privatize the operation by granting a concession to a single opemtor.
*   C4. Performance contracts for all power companies have been concluded, and an action  *  Inplementation slipped. Legislation to restructure the power sector was passed. The
plan, acceptable to the Association, has been adopted for the implementation of tariff  Electricity Power Bill became law on January 9, 1998; the Electricity Regulation
adjustments required to achieve full coverage of LRMC.                         Board was established and members appointed on May 6, 1998. IDA approved
Performance Contracts between KPLC and KPC, and GOK. The approval of the
Contracts has been pending with the OP since May, 1998. The draft report of the
tariff study has been completed; an interim tariff adjustment consistent with debt
service and self-financing ratios of KPC and KPLC is being examined. The final
tariff study is to be ready in early 1999. Action on tariff policy will require the
completion of power purchase agreements between KPC and KPLC.
*   C5. NCPB has satisfactorily implemented its commercialization program in accordance  *   Implementation slipped. Outside experts were appointed to restructure NCPB, and
with contractual arrangements, acceptable to the Association, between NCPB and  an Agency Agreement between GOK and NCPB was signed in May 1998. After the
technical experts                                                              SAC was closed, Cabinet approved (i) an assets divestiture plan, and (ii) the
restructuring of NCPB balance sheet; these decisions remain to be implemented. The
following actions have yet to be taken: (i) Cabinet approval of changes in the Board
of Directors of NCPB, and (ii) planned budgetary provision of K Sh 3.0 billion as
part of the financial restructuring of NCPB.



18
Table 5a: Key Indicators of Program Implementation
Expected                                                                        Actual
*  C6. The Borrower has submitted to Parliament draft legislation, satisfactory to the  *   Implementation was satisfactory. Legislation was approved by Parliament in April
association, to convert NSSF into a private pension fund capable of operating on an  1997 to establish an independent Pensions Regulatory Authority and to provide
autonomous basis, and in accordance with appropriate guidelines and operating  regulatory framework to oversee pension activities. In addition, legislation was
principles.                                                                    approved by Parliament in August 1997 to amend the National Social Security Act to
enhance the autonomy of NSSF.
*  C7. The Borrower has: (a) caused KPTC to be split into a regulatory authority and two  *  Implementation slippedc  After the SAC closed, Parliament passed the bill in July
other separate entities to be responsible for posts and telecommunications, respectively;  1998 splitting KPTC into a regulatory agency (Communication Commission of
(b) made an offer for the sale of not less than 30 percent of the share capital of the entity  Kenya - CCK) and two separate entities, (Telecom Kenya Ltd. - TKL) and POSTA.
responsible for telecommunications, and (c) issued or submitted a time table acceptable  The bill was signed into law in November, 1998. Cabinet approved sale of 26 percent
to the Association for the issue of a second cellular phone service license to a private  of TKL to a strategic partner, and 20 percent by IPO. To privatize TKL, relevant
operator.                                                                      documents are being prepared, and an Information Memorandum was to be released
by mid-December, 1998. License preparation and launch of bid process for a second
cellular operator has been delayed. GOK has waived the requirement that at least
70% of the shares of the future cellular operator be held by Kenyans.
*   C8. The Borrower has signed a management contract, on terms and conditions  *   On June 8 1998, Cabinet took a more far reaching decision to award a concession for
acceptable to the Association, with an outside operator for the operation and  the container terminal and to privatize stevedoring, tug boat and pilotage services.
management of the container terminal at KPA, and a performance contract, on terms  KPA will become landlord port authority, overseeing privatized port operations.
and conditions acceptable to the Association, with KPA.                        This decision remains to be implemented.
*  C9. The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented its privatization programn for 1996,  *   Implementation slipped.  Twenty three of 40 originally listed enterprises were
and submitted a proposed privatization program, acceptable to the Association, for  privatized by the end of 1996. Overall, 45 enterprises were privatized from 1996 to
1997, in accordance with paragraphs 37 and 38 of the Letter.                   March 1998, but this did not include some key enterprises (Kenya Reinsurance,
Africa Tours and Hotels (AT&H), Mumnias and Chemlil). On May 4, 1998, Cabinet
decided on the privatization of the 4 outstanding units from the past year plus 9 new
companies. The enterprises are at various stages of implementation (deciding on
privatization strategy, preparing valuation, making offer for sale, etc.)
Civil Service Reform
*  CIO. The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented the first phase of the civil Service  *   Implementation is satisfactory. Required staff reductions have been completed. A
reform program ending in or about June 1997, including planned staff reductions in the  second phase medium term strategy acceptable to IDA has been approved by
civil service, and adopted an action plan, acceptable to the Association for the second  Cabinet; an Action Plan has been finalized. The Action Plan is being reviewed in
phase of the program, begimning in or about July 1997, in accordance with paragraphs  coordination with the on-going work on the Medium Term Expenditure Framework
24 and 25 of the Letter.
*  Cl l. The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented the rationalization plans as agreed  *   Implementation slipped. The rationalization of the Ministry of Agriculture has been
for government Ministries, having regard to the targets and objectives established for  initiated, and the rationalization reports of eleven other ministries have been
such rationalization plans, and in accordance with paragraph 27 of the Letter  prepared, and are awaiting cabinet approval. The reforms are being revised in the
light of the second phase program noted in C10.



19
Table 5a: Key Indicators of Program Implementation
Expected                                                                        Actual
Public Resource Management
C12. The Borrower has satisfactorily implemented its FY 1996/97 development and  *  Public resource management slipped in 1996/97, and continued into early 1997/98
recurrent budget allocations, having regard to the benchmarks and guiding principles  (See C2). In the area of expenditure rationalization, while allocations for road
established for such allocations, and developed recurrent and development budget  maintenance increased from the Road Maintenance Levy, pay increases in 1997/98
proposals, acceptable to the Association, for FY 1997/98, and in accordance with  undercut allocations for priority non-wage social services. The authorities took steps
paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Letter                                             to formulate a prioritized public investment program for the 1998/99 budget, cutting
the number of projects from 1226 to 664. However, the prioritization process needs
to be improved and made transparent; the criteria adopted for the prioritization
involved eliminating activities that could be postponed, rather than shifting resources
to core functions and high rate of return projects.



20
Table 5b: Status of Intermediate Actions To Be Taken By 1ST. May, 1998
To Decide on Closing the SAC
SAC ACTION                    INTERMEDIATE STEPS                               COMPLETION              FULFILLED            FULFILLED                  NOT
DATE                    PRIOR TO          AFTER CLOSING            FULFILLED
CLOSING SAC               SAC
June 30 1998         October 1998*
1. MACROECONOMIC              1. Fulfill Macroeconomic benchmarks as           May 1, 1998                                                              X
POLICY FRAMEWORK               agreed with IMF                                                                                                 Expenditure and
pending bills targets
exceeded
2. Maintain improvement in macroeconomic        FY 1998/99                                                               X
framework                                                                                                        Pending review
2. KRC                         1. GOK decision on options presented by         April 30, 1998               X
consultants in mid-term report
2. Finish Action Plan                           July 31, 1998                                      X
3. Cabinet Approval of Action Plan              September 30, 1998                    _           X
3. ENERGY                      1. KPLC                                         April 30, 1998               X
PERFORMANCE                                                                                      Pending OP approval
CONTRACTS                                                                                                 X
2. KPC                                          April 30, 1998       Pending OP approval
4. ENERGY TARIFF               1. Interim Draft Study (Economic                April 30, 1998               X
ADJUSTMENTS                   component)
2. Completion of Study                          June 30, 1998                                     X
Initial draft  done
3. Agreed Plan with World Bank                  September 30, 1998                        and  interim  tariff           X
increase     being  Final study to be done
examined            in 1999; tariff  policy
will  require   power
purchase agreement
Based on performance during the ICR preparation mission in November 1998.



21
COMPLETION             FULFILLED            FULFILLED
SAC ACTION                INTERMEDIATE STEPS                             DATE                    PRIOR TO         AFTER CLOSING  NOT FULFILLED
CLOSING SAC              SAC
June 30 1998        October 1998
5. NCPB.                  1. Cabinet approval of assets divestiture plan  May 1, 1998                                     x
2. Cabinet approval of restructuring of       May 1, 1998                                       X
balance sheet
3. Changes in Board of Directors              May 1, 1998                                                           x
4. Signing of Agency Agreement                May 1, 1998                  X
6. NSSF                   Done                                           Condition met                x
7. KPTC SPLIT             1. Passage of legislation                      May 15,1998                                      X
8. OFFER FOR SALE           (a) Cabinet approval of Bill                 March 31, 1998              X
(b) Publishing of Bill                      March 31, 1998               X
(c) Submission to Parliament                April 15, 1998                                    X
2. Cabinet approval of option for divestiture  April 30, 1998                                   X
3. Separation of accounts of Telecom Kenya    October 31, 1998                                                      X
LTD. based on June 30, 1998 Accounts
9. LICENSE OF             4. Offer for sale of Telecom                   Nov. 30, 1998                                                        x
CELLULAR
OPERATOR                5. Issuance of license to second cellular operator  Nov. 30, 1998                                                   x



22
SAC ACTION               INTERMEDIATE STEPS                             COMPLETION    FULFILLED                  FULFILLED              NOT
DATE               PRIOR TO MAY            AFTER             FULFILLED
1ST           CLOSING SAC
10. PORT-                1. Workshop to select option for private sector  April 30, 1998          X
MANAGEMENT            participation and prepare action plan
CONTRACTOR
2. Cabinet approval of implementation action  May 1, 1998                                    X
plan
11. KPA-
PERFORMANCE           3. Inplementation of Action Plan              To be agreed in                                X
CONTRACT                                                            May, 1998
12. PRIVATIZATION        1. Mumias                                      Pending                                                           X
1996/97 PROGRAM                                                     agreement with
GOK
13. 1998 PROGRAM
2. Chemilil                                     -Do-                                                            X
3. Kenya Reinsurance                          August 30, 1998                               X
(a) Completion of Valuation of Business      May 1, 1998                X
4. AT&H                                       May 1, 1998                X
5. K Refinery - GOK approval of divestiture plan   October 30, 1998                                             X
6. Kenya Pipeline - GOK approval of divestiture   October 30, 1998                                              X
plan
7. Draft divestiture Action Plan of both Refnery    GOK to confirm                          X
and Pipeline                                  date soon
8. Cabinet approval of agreed privatization   May 1, 1998                X
program for 1998



23
SAC ACTION                INTERMEDIATE STEPS                           COMPLETION    FULFILLED                 FULFILLED               NOT
DATE                  PRIOR TO             AFTER            FULFILLED
CLOSING SAC   CLOSING SAC
._____________       June 30 1998        October 1998
14. CliVi SERVICE         1. Complete staff reductions originally due by  May 1, 1998             X
REFORM FIRST             June 1997
PHASE
2. Finalize Strategy Paper                  March 30, 1998             X
15. CIVIL SERVICE
REFORM                3. Cabinet approval of strategy paper        April 15, 1998             X
SECOND PHASE
4. Finalize Action Plan and incorporate new  June 30, 1998             X
strategy in FY98/99 budget                                                                .
16. RATIONALIZATION   1. Initiate implementation of rationalization of    March 15, 1998         X
OF MINISTRIES            Ministry of Agriculture
x
2. Complete rationalization of Ministry of  To be agreed by                                               In progress
Agric.                                    May 1998
3. Begin rationalization of other ministries  July 1, 1998                                                    x
17. BUDGET                1. PER Workshop with Permanent Secretaries    March 1998               X
ALLOCATIONS
2. Draft GOK "emergency" development budget  May 15, 1998              X
for 1998/99
3. Define monitorable actions to improve
management of PIP                        May 15, 198                                                       X
4. Draft Report on Medium Term Expenditure                                                                    x
Framework                                 October 1998                                               Work in progress



24
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators
Expected                       Actual
Intermediate Indicator               1996/97       1997/98           1995/96  1996/97  1997/98
Fiscal deficit, expenditure allocation
*  Fiscal deficit (% of GDP)              Less than 2% of GDP       1.3       2.1        2.4
*  Increase road main/a.(KSh mil)                    4285/a                             3327
*  Increase non-wage recurrent
expenditure share of primary
education (%/6)                           Increase ratio         2.2       3.1         2.2
.  Increase allocation for scholarships
for secondary school level.
.  Increase share of preventive care
from health sector budget (%)                                    16.3     14.7       13.9
*  Increase development expenditure %
of GDP                            7.0            7.0             5.8       4.9        5.4
Major Parastatals
.  Improve operating balance for 5                                  4000      2761      5951/b
major parastatals (KPTC, KPA,
KPLC, KRC & NCPB)
*  Complete privatization of remaining        End of 1997           Thirteen entities remaining by
97 entities                                                     October 1998
Civil Service reform
*  Limit growth of civil service wage    10.5        9.9             9.2      8.5        10.0
bill (% of GDP)
Outcome Indicator
*  Inflation (%)                          5.0        5.0            12.6      8.9         7.6
*  Increase agricultural and industrial   4.0        4.0             4.4      1.2         1.2
output growth                         7.0        7.0             3.7      1.9         2.6
*  Increase GDP Growth to                 6.0        6.0             4.6      2.3         1.6
.  Primary school enrollment                    increase             1.1      1.4         1.4
.  Primary enrollment for girls                 increase             0.7      1.5         1.5
*  Health status of population
Morbidity rate                    Decrease
Incidence of disease              Decrease                20.6    20.6         20.6
.  Reduce  payments on  behalf of                                   3042    2169        1907
parastatals (K Sh million)      I
/a Allocation increased from K Sh 4285 million in 1997/98 to K Sh 6250 million in 1998/99.
lb Most of the surpluses were generated by KPTC.



25
Table 7: Major Studies Included in Project
Study             Purpose of Study           Status            Impact of Study
Electricity Tariff Study   To determine long run  Initial draft done in   The study is being used to
marginal cost and tariff May 1998.          determine interim tariffs.
policy for electricity
Final version to be    The completion of the final
ready in early 1999   study and determination of
tariff policy requires a
power purchase agreement
Post-Privatization Study  To assess performance of  Completed in June,  Study was used to update
privatized enterprises         1998         the   parastatal   reform
program
Recurrent Expenditures  Part of civil service reform  Completed in    Input  in  designing  the
and O&M Study      program to assess the      January, 1998    strategy  for the  second
impact of staff reduction                   phase of civil service reform
on the wage bill and non-                   program with emphasis on
wage operation and                          ministerial rationalization
maintenance costs
Options for the   Assist GOK  to  select  Completed in July,  Design  of  privatization
Privatization of Telecom  privatization strategy for  1997         strategy for TKL
Kenya Ltd. (TKL).    TKL.
Financial Restructuring   Series of studies on the  Completed in  Background for reform to
of KPTC: Valuation   financial restructuring of    August, 1997  split KPTC into three: TKL,
Report         KPTC and providing TKL                      POSTA and CCK.
a viable balance sheet
Regulatory Framework  Formulate    regulatory   Series of studies    Supported reform  to split
for Kenya Post and    framework   for   the     completed in    KPTC  into  three: TKL,
Teleconmunuication    Telecommunication Sector   September, 1998   POSTA and CCK.
(KPTC) Sector      under new legislation to
restructure KPTC
Commercialization of   Prepare business plan and   Studies completed   Supported reform  to split
POSTA services     strategy to commercialize  in September, 1998  KPTC  into  three: TKL,
POSTA                                       POSTA and CCK
Privatization Strategy   To identify options for    Completed in    Input into privatizing KRC
for Kenya Railways    privatizing KRC           October, 1998
Corporation (KRC)
Report on workshop to  To aid GOK decision on  Completed in June,  GOK decision to privatize
select privatization    privatization strategy for  1998        KPA
option for Kenya Ports  KPA
Authority (KPA)



26
Table 8a: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)             Actual (US$ million)
Local costs   Foreign costs   Total    Local costs   Foreign costs   Total
126         126                       79.8        79.8
Table 8b: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)             Actual (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local costs   Foreign costs   Total
Source    costs   costs
IBRD/IDA         126         126                       79.8       79.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



27
Table 10: Status of Particular Covenants
g g . .- ..... . -. - ~.......  ;........ ...   S;.. ..  ....... .. ;. ... ;. .. f:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .fE..............    ..gSEE... ..  !E.  .    E. i...i......
.  .. ....... .        ....   ..  .    ..... ..   ,i
Agreemnt-- -                         -      cr - - Eieptiou of Coveant               -E :-  - :;   mm  0tsE:l
i . i  w   .   ......   iEE    ~~~~~.....  ............. .              .......  ..FiE   ,.,  ..,,.......i S i   .L g   - 
..........   ..........ii                                 ER:   ER ..     i......... ........     ..... .......
Schedule 3.01          The borrower and association shall from time to time, at the request of   Condition met
() Xeither party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
(a)           the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 of this Agreement
(b)           Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furish to the
Association for its review  and comment a report on the progress    Condition met
achieved in carfying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(c)           Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any   Implementation
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which    of schedule 2
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the    unsatisfactory
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action    (See Tablc 5at
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.                                   e       e
Schedule 3.02    Upon the Association's request the Borrower shall:                                Audit not
(a)           Have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate               requested
vaJ      ~auditing  principles  consistently  applied  by  independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b)           Furniish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
tha  four months after the date of the Association's request for such        Audit not
audit, a certified copy of the report of such aucht by said auchtors, of     requested
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c)           Furnish to the Association such other information concerning the  No request made
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonabl requested.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable



28
Table 12: Bank Resource - Staff Inputs
Stage of                                                           Actual
Project Cycle                                               Weeks                US$'OOO
Preparation to appraisal                                       102.2                256.0
Appraisal                                                       41.7               112.1
Negotiations through Board approval                             44.0               118.0
Supervision                                                     87.3               251.5
Completion                                                       2.5                 9.0
Total                                                          277.7               746.6
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of              Monthl   Number of  Days in  Specialized  Implementa- Development   Type of
Project cycle         year      persons      field    Staff skills   tion Status  Objective      problems
Aug. 94
Through appraisal        to         14            16  Econ/All
Aug. 95
Appraisal             Sept. 95      15            10  Econ/All                      .
Negotiations through    April to    19           9.5  Econ/AIl
Board approval        June 96
Supervision (Initial  Aug. 96        3            16                       S
project summary)
Supervision           May 97         8            14  Econ/Sel.           U/a            U       Delayed GOK
approval of
reform actions
and legislation,
administrative
bottlenecks,
inadequate
macroeconomic
management.
Dec. 97       8            14  Econ/Sel.           U/a            U            same
Feb. 98       7            14  Econ/Sel.           U              U            same
_  May 98       7            14  Econ/Sel.            U              U           same
Completion            Nov. 98        4            14  Econ/CSR            U              U      I
Note:                  "All" refers to all specialized skills required for the project: econonists; parastatal reform
specialist; legal; and specialists in civil service reform, agriculture, education, road and rail transport, and telecommunication
"CSR" - Civil service reform
"Sel"- Selected specialists. The specialists tended to undertake supervision in the context of their project cycles which
overlapped, but did not necessarily coincide, with SAC supervision missions.
/a Civil service reform component was progressing satisfactorily initially.



29
APPENDIX I
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR THIE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
GOVERNMENT OF KENYA PERSPECTIVE
Background
1.    The IDA Structural adjustment Credit (SAC) was approved by the World Bank
Board in June, 1996.  The credit was to provide finance in support of structural
adjustment. It was a two tranche operation amounting to a total of SDR. 117.3 million
which included IDA Reflows amounting to SDR 31 million equivalent to US$ 43.3
million. The first tranche of SDR 55.4 million, equivalent to US$ 79.8 million, was
released on 24th June, 1996. The second tranche amounting to SDR 61.9 million,
equivalent to US$ 88 million, was due in June, 1997. However, it was delayed and
canceled in June, 1998 due to non-compliance on a number of conditions.
2.    The SAC was based on the Government Policy Framework Paper for 1996-98 and
a Letter of Development Policy which set out the GOK's medium term strategy. The
objective of this strategy was to reduce poverty and unemployment through accelerated
economic growth. This was to be achieved through: (i) strengthening monetary and
public sector financial management and consolidating fiscal discipline; (ii) accelerating
and streamlining reform in the Civil Service, public enterprises and improving delivery of
infrastructure services; (iii) liberalization of markets; (iv) addressing the social aspects of
development; and (v) eliminating corruption.
3.    The program was designed to support specific measures that focus on macro-
economic policy framework consistent with the overall objectives of the reforms. This
was intended to enable the Government consolidate the fiscal position to sustainable
levels in the medium term, improve quality of public expenditure through reallocation,
enhance efficiency of public enterprises through restructuring and divestiture, reduce the
size of public sector through accelerated privatization, and reduce the Civil Service
Use of Funds
4.    Through the Central Bank of Kenya, a Special Deposit Account No. 679308-001
with A.N.Z. Banking Group, Montague Close, London was opened on 1 111 June, 1996; an
amount of $79.8 million was paid into the account on 2811h June, 1996. The funds were
used for general budget support.
The Execution of the Program
5.    The legal covenants for the SAC referenced in Article 111 section 3.01 (a)
through (c) and 3.02 (a) through (c) were fulfilled as summarized in Table 10. This was
facilitated through constant exchange of views between GOK and IDA either before or
during supervision missions. All participating Ministries and Government departments
gave written or verbal reports and fully participated in meetings with IDA.



32
6.    As part of the SAC implementation, the following enterprises were targeted for
reform: privatization of the remaining 97 non-strategic parastatals and reform of Kenya
Ports Authority, Kenya Railway Corporation, National Cereals & Produce Board,
National Social Security Fund, Kenya Power & Lighting Company and Kenya Posts and
Telecommunication Corporation. Reforms were initiated and were at various stages of
implementation at the time the credit was closed. However, implementation is still in
progress as detailed in Tables 5a and 5b.
7.    As demonstrated by progress made after the election dust had settled down, it is
possible to refocus on implementation of reforms once economic priorities supersede
political priorities. Progress in several areas is greater than originally envisaged in the
SAC; for example, a decision to privatize railways and ports; sale of 46% of KPTC
(which is more than 30% as originally envisaged in SAC) and acceptance of a strategic
partner in KPTC which allows transfer of know-how, implementation of IPPS in the
power sector; and sale of NYAYO Bus Corporation. These actions were not anticipated
within the original SAC time frame, but have far-reaching implications towards the
attainment of SAC objectives, and the decision by Government is a major step forward.
8.    Though belated, the actions completed so far, represent far greater understanding
of issues involved, and progress has been made in some key areas which represent greater
potential impact on SAC objectives than the originally designed actions.  When
completed, the privatization of KPTC, KRC and KPA will have far greater impact on the
economy than the privatization of 97 non-strategic enterprises.
9.    Under the first phase of the Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP), the targeted
net reduction of 19,500 staff was exceeded by 2,924. Furthermore, the strategy paper for
the second phase of the CSRP was approved by Cabinet on 18'h May, 1998 and has been
incorporated in the FY1998/99 budget.
10.   The following additional accomplishments have been made:
*  Improvement of Establishment Control, PE Budgeting, Payroll Management and
Personnel Information Systems through the introduction of an Integrated Payroll and
Personnel Database (IPPD) system on a pilot basis covering six ministries and one
department.
* Development of staffing norms for all cadres in the Ministry of Agriculture.
*  Development of staffing norms in four common cadres, that is, driver, secretary,
messenger and clerical officer for the entire civil service. These constitute 40% of the
civil service staff strength.
*  Elimination of 613 ghost workers in the civil service arising form Phase 1 of the Head
Count exercise was successfully carried out. This is one of the actions called for in
ESAF-related structural actions.



33
*  Head Count exercise in the entire civil and teaching services has been completed.
Validation of the results was expected to be completed by end-December, 1998 and
any ghosts identified would be removed from the payroll by January.
*  Further more, with regard to rationalization of Government functions, the
Government has made a decision to contract out the cleaning function on a pilot basis
covering five ministries and departments before approving contracting out as a
Government policy to be applied in the entire civil service.
*  A medium term strategy for civil service reform was approved by Cabinet in May
1998. Constant consultations with ministries have created more awareness of the
need to implement this program.
11.   On the energy sector, a new Electric Power Act was passed and became law on 9t
January, 1998; the Electricity Regulatory Board was established in May, 1998. The draft
performance contracts for both KenGen and KPLC are currently in their final stages of
preparation and should be signed any time. The Electric Tariff Study is at an advanced
stage, and the final report is expected to be submitted in early 1999. As it was not
feasible to have an action plan for implementation of any recommended tariff adjustment
by 30t September, 1998 because the tariff study could not be completed within the
original time frame, it was agreed with the IDA mission of 5th to 12* October, 1998 on
the Energy Sector Reform and Power Development Project (Cr. 2966-KE) that the
consultant for the Tariff Study be asked to work out an interim tariff adjustment by end of
November, 1998. This work is in progress. The recommended interim tariff adjustment
which will be for both KPLC and KenGen was to be considered by the Government and
IDA by 9th December, 1998.
12.   Available statistics on output for some key economic activities indicate that real
GDP growth in 1998 is likely to be lower than the 2.3 percent recorded in 1997. The
weak economic activity has been a result of a number of adverse effects, such as
deterioration in infrastructure facilities, persistent high interest rates and insecurity which
had a major toll on tourism. This situation was compounded by bad weather, as the
country experienced both drought and floods in late 1997 and early 1998. The double
disaster had severe adverse effects on agriculture, which contributes a significant share of
gross domestic product.
13.   The revised budget recorded a deficit of KSh. 15, 239 million (2.4% of GDP),
compared to a target of KSh. 15, 838 (2.5% of GDP). This performance is attributed to:
* Improved revenue performance which increased from KSh. 149,249 million (26.4%
of GDP) in 1996/97 to KSh. 179,594 million (28.2% of GDP) in 1997/98.
* Containment of expenditures to KSh. 194, 965 million (30.6% of GDP) in 1997/98.



34
Lessons Learnt
14.   As a result of not meeting all SAC conditions, the credit was closed and the
second tranche canceled. Details of the conditions which were not met are in Table 5a.
*  Delays do occur because of unforeseen process steps that required longer time than
anticipated. Lack of political will is not the only constraint. Both the process of
political consensus building and technical preparation activities may have consumed
far greater time than initially envisaged.
* Staff turnover in both GOK and World Bank affected SAC implementation.
*  The program  lacked proper consultation within the respective Government
implementing arms at the beginning and as such there was lack of a sense of
ownership. However, in the course of implementation the necessary consultations
was activated and everyone brought on board.
*  Implementation of the program coincided with the General Election of 1997, thus
denying the program the full attention of decision makers as well as reduced political
commitment to implement the agreed actions as more efforts were directed towards
political reforms.
15.   Given the difficult political and fiscal environment it was necessary to take full
cognizance of the difficult situation in the Country, such as fiscal constraints caused by
the elections, salary increases, El Nino and high interest rates.



35
APPENDix II
RECENT ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
Recent Economic Developments
1.   The economy has remained in a slump in a second year with a growth rate of 2.3
percent in 1997, about half the rate achieved in 1996. The growth rate for 1998 is
projected at 1.6 percent, though  GDP rowth (%):        1996 1997 1998
with  some  recovery  of food                            44   1.4  0.9
production.  Agricultural growth  A
declined sharply in 1997 to 1.4  Manufacturing           3.7  1.9  1.5
percent from 4.4 percent in 1996,  Trade, restaurants &  8.0  3.9  3.4
and was accompanied by a decline  hotels
in all other sectors as shown in the  Building & Construction   3.5  1.9  1.8
adjoining Table. The growth rate of  Government services  1.6  1.1  0.8
manufacturing was 1.9 percent,  Overall GDP              4.6  2.3  1.6
building and construction 1.9 percent, and Government services 1.1 percent in 1997.
2.   The growth performance over the past two years reflects the impact of complex
factors. GDP growth has been falling over the past decades with the erosion in the
quality of economic management and in basic infrastructure. The loss of fiscal prudence
coupled with social unrest during the recent elections further intensified the erosion, as it
weakened investor confidence; this contributed to the net outflow of long-term capital
and decline in investments. There were, in addition, serious adverse supply shocks: (i)
severe drought conditions in late 1997 and El Nino floods in early 1998, which disrupted
agriculture and damaged major road corridors; (ii) insecurity during the elections, which
reduced tourist arrivals; and (iii) a decline in the quality of loans and a financial
weakening of the commercial banking system. There was also a softening of demand,
especially from growing unpaid bills of the Government equivalent to 1.8 percent of GDP
in mid-1998; less than expected growth of commercial bank credit to the private sector,
which rose by only 11% in the year ending September 1998, compared to 30 percent at
September-end 1997; and the effects of decline in agricultural production and of rural
household incomes on the demand for manufactured goods and rural-urban services.
3     While Government has made efforts to improve macroeconomic management
since the second quarter of 1998, the outlook remains fragile. The adoption of a more
prudent fiscal stance has arrested the expansion of the fiscal deficit. In 1997/98, the
fiscal deficit - on a commitment basis and excluding grants - was equivalent to 2.4
percent of GDP, which was within the revised target of 2.5 percent. Revenues were on
target at a record 29 percent of GDP, while expenditures exceeded target slightly. The
stock of unpaid bills reached K Sh 10,037 million in June, 1998, about 1.8 percent of
GDP, instead of the planned decline. The preliminary estimate of the fiscal deficit for
1998 is 1.6 percent of GDP.



36
4.   The inflation rate decelerated at an annualized rate from over 10 percent to 7.1
percent for the year ending November, 1998. This inflation trend reflects a fall in the
international price of some important imports, such as fuel, improved food supplies and
lower than expected growth in money supply. As inflation decelerated, real interest rates
have fallen. The 91-day Treasury bill rate fell to 17.6 percent in November 1998 from
over 25 percent in November 1997. Inflation and interest rates continued to decelerate
after the SAC was closed, reaching 6.6 and about 10 percent respectively by early 1999.
While the interest rate decline will have favorable impact on Government debt, it has yet
to filter to private investors. The gap between the savings deposit rate and the loan
(overdraft) rate has remained large, close to 20 percentage points.
5.   The financial sector remains a source of serious concem, particularly the health of
the commercial banking system and its capacity to mobilize and allocate financial
resources effectively; this is essential for making progress on reforms aimed at limiting
the role of the Government and fostering the expansion of the private sector in financing
commercial services. While the magnitude of the risk to the commercial banking system
has not been quantified, it is considered serious as it affects the major domestic banks and
virtually the entire payments system. Non-performing advances are large and increasing,
reaching 30 percent in November 1998, up from 20% earlier in July. There was a run on
the National Bank of Kenya In October 1998, requiring Government infusion of K Sh 2
billion.
6.  In the extemal sector, the overall balance of payments position made a gain to a
surplus of US$ 105 million in September 1998 from US$ 92 million the previous
September. In the year ending September 1998 the current account deficit declined by
US$ 100 million to US$ 134 million, though the services account eamed a surplus of
US$ 954 million. Foreign reserves held by the entire banking system rose slightly to US$
1333 million, equivalent to 5.2 months of imports. While both exports and imports
declined, imports declined more sharply, mainly because of the sluggish economy. A
more robust growth would have put more pressure on imports and on the external
accounts. The improvement in the external balance continued to the end of 1999 and is
due to net inflow of short term capital, which is volatile. There is continuing outflow of
long-term capital. Overall, the macroeconomic situation remains fragile.
Poverty and Social Developments
7.   The 1997 welfare monitoring survey indicates that more Kenyans are living in
poverty. While data for 1998 are not available, the decline of the GDP growth rate to a
level less than the average population growth rate in recent years suggest deterioration in
living conditions, especially since Govemment services grew by only 0.8 percent and
there is no discernible improvement in income distribution. The combination of the
economic slump, lower Government services, and the disruption of road access to rural-
urban markets has unfavorable consequences for rural household incomes and poverty.
In the urban areas, unemployment is said to be rising and spreading to the ranks of
university graduates. Some survey results show 20 percent graduate employment in the
first year of graduation and about 50 percent in the second year.



37
8.  In addition, the El Nino floods spawned an outbreak of water-related ailments,
especially malaria and rift valley fever, while limiting access to social services by
disrupting the road system. The low growth (0.8 percent) of Government services
indicate limited relief from public services, though the Government made special efforts
to redirect the budget towards emergency relief, including for malaria in the flood
affected areas. While enrollments have increased in primary and secondary education as
well as for girls, the growth rate at 1.5 percent is much lower than the growth of the
respective cohort population. Thus, access to these social services continues to decline.
Challenges and Future Reforms
9.   Kenya remains a promising economy, despite the policy slippage and other
setbacks in recent years. It has reduced its average population growth rate from 4 percent
in the 1960s and 1970s to under 3 percent recently. Agriculture has shown dynamism
with the introduction of new crops, especially horticulture, which contributed to
diversifying the export base. The economy is highly open with outward-oriented trade
and exchange rate policies, and it has a diverse private sector. The industrial base
continues to expand slowly with readymade garment industries and agro-businesses,
including those based on horticulture and food processing. But weak infrastructure is
considered a major bottleneck to efficient internal trade as well as to export
competitiveness, and poor capacity utilization is a major concern in the industrial sector.
Social indicators are favorable relative to East African neighbors and similar low income
economies. The stock of educated work force is favorable. In the political front, Kenya
has remained stable with the recent introduction of multi-party democracy. Social
tension from the political competition as well as from intensified competition for
resources in a stagnating economy remains manageable relative to other countries.
10.  Among the national leadership, political stability and social cohesion are
considered prerequisites for economic and social progress. At the same time, faster
growth will provide scope to take measures to lessen the social tension. Achieving this
stability and cohesion in a plural ethnic setting is a major challenge. Equally important is
the need to maintain the stock of human and physical capital that has been accumulated
over the past decades and to expand it as critical for reversing the declining growth trend
and rising poverty. The recent Country Assistance Strategy, which was prepared in
consultation with the Kenyan authorities and with civil society provides some guide on
the approach to reviving economic growth and reducing poverty.
11.   The thrust of the CAS is greater openness and more transparent mechanisms of
economic governance to foster a more effective use of public resources and private
investments. It points to systemic bottlenecks - a large Government that absorbs too much
resources while unable to deliver basic services, over-commitment and fragmentation in
the utilization of public resources, and corruption - that undercut aid absorption and
undermined the effective public resource utilization. Despite the need for more aid as
may be suggested by the need to rebuild basic economic and social infrastructure, project
aid absorption has actually been poor because of these bottlenecks. Redressing the
bottlenecks is important for channeling more aid to the economy and for absorbing it



38
effectively. The CAS proposes specific measures that will help overcome these
bottlenecks and pave the way for faster growth and improvement in living conditions.
12. The CAS identifies specific measures that will help get better results from public
sector activity and harness the private sector. These include: (i) redefining the role and
core functions of Government to make it more focused on clearly identified priorities; (ii)
reforming public institutions, including restructuring ministries and undertaking
accelerated divestiture of parastatals that could be suitably transferred to the private
sector; (iii) cleaning the public investment program to focus on high quality projects; and
(iv) formulating a medium term expenditure program covering the redefined priorities of
the Government, and backed by expenditure policies and reform of budgetary processes
that will help support the implementation of the priority public sector reforms.
13. In addition, the health of the commercial banking system cannot be over-
emphasized for fostering a greater private sector role. Priority proposals to redress the
banking sector weaknesses include: (i) strengthening the capability of the central bank to
supervise the banking system, new regulations to tighten the licensing of new banks,
training to develop capability in off-site bank supervision, and restructuring the capital
base of the viable banks; (ii) a strategy for loan recovery; (iii) strengthening the judicial
system for loan recovery; and (iv) strengthening the deposit protection fund.



IBRD 26150R
SUDAN
To Kpoeto,
K           >.P                                                      ~~KENYA
TURKANA                                                                        T  Add,, A   Ab_bR
RIFT   X4.   
EASTERN
o  VALLEY
z
- 0       >'WESX                                      /           v                   iSIL        W AJIR L
t  JWESTX,8    \      X          ~~~~SAMOURt         'J1lOO                           '    
4,,,O-zRNS     E4MLRGAI\                  ts                                                                                                  i
Qj                                                                                                                                   E  > X-4'  EASTERN               >
NAND                                                        MERU                                                                       To Gia-mI
/                   ~~~~~~~R U
*      4        NAROK
fAAJOR TOWNS        "-~~~~~~~~I  BLAKATU
To Tori-e\it  TANA RIVIER'.\ 
\       2               /   Q~~~~~~~.ACHAKOS  N                
r<          ~VA LEY                             j                g    O               T              ilt!   -000000:0
<;\%KAJ#~~~ADO                                                                              "LAM,s  S 
O MAJOR TOWNS  >   *        0 0  0 t  0  000
*1        NATIONAL CAPITAL                  ToArush)
MAIN ROADS                                                                   \     At          1+000000000000~0000000
4+        NATIONAL AIRPORTS                 I_______________________
*          INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
K:dA ome A ~~~~~~~~~~7OMArOA i
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                  20 iIo ,>te>                                                             i:
a        50       '      150       200Kilo- ee\,   (" X       ;  t0                   r kK'hlA      -00 /4    
This map was prepared by the Map Unit of the World Bank.    0             50              100Mil-es                                                   UNI
The boundaries, colors, denominotions and any other informotion                                              E                                        TANZANdA.
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Grdosp,men any Idgment oanthe legalhstatus of any territory, or any
enosmnt or acceptance of suhboundaries.                                                                                                __________________
MAY 1997



