Documcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE GNLY
Report No. 9520
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1008-NEP)
APRIL 30, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURIdENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 (at Appraisal)   =   Nepalese Rupee (NR)12.00
US$1.00 (at Completion)   =   Nepalese Rupee (NR)28.85
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
ADB              Asian Developme.at Bank
CFAD             Community Forestry and Afforestation Division
CFDD             Community Forestry Development Division
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FINNIDA          Finnish International Agency for Development Assistance
HMG              His Majesty's Government of Nepal
MOF              Ministry of Forest
PF               Panchayat Forest (Plantations)
PPF              Panchayat Protected Forest (Plantations)
SIU              Stove Improvement Unit
TA               Technical Assistance
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
USAID            U.S. Agency for International Development
WB               World Bank



THE WORO SANFM OFFICIA   M ONLY
TW WOltL BANK
Wahinton. D.C. t0433
USA.
0fie id Ogs.me
Opesasm Ivahiama
April 30, 1991
tEmORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TEE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on NEPAL
Community Forestry Development and Training Project
(Credit 1008-NEP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report coi NEPAL - Community Forestry Development and Training
Project (Credit 1008-NEP)l prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Departmenie at
this time.
Attachment
is document has a resuied disbuion and may be sed by ncipnts only in the psomaon
oftheir oici dudet Its contents may not otherwise be discloed wkbout Wouid Bank austoriuon



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
]ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FOL.STRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1008-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page no.
PREFACE ............                                                  .....   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                      .......... . ....... ...                        iii
PART I  -  PROJECT REVIEW FPROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .............               ....       1
A  Project Identity .......            ..............................              1
B  Background              ...............................................         1
C  Project Objectives and Description .....                ..................      2
D  Project Design and Organization .....             ................              3
E  Project Implementation ........ ...........................                     5
F  Project Results  .......          ....................................          7
G  Project Sustainability  ............. .  .................... .                 9
H  Bank Performance  .............             ..     ... . .                     10
I  Borrower Performance .....................................                    11
J  Project Relationship  ............... ......................                   11
K  Consulting Services .....................                   .......            11
L Project Documentation and Data ... .                                           11
PART  II  -  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PFERSPECTIVE ...........                     13
(Part II has not been received)
PART III  -  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ........................ ..                       15
A  Related WB Loans and/or Credits  .....               .....................     15
B  Project Timetable ......................... ..  .........                     15
C  Credit Disbursements  ......................................                   16
D  Project Implementation . ................................ . .                 17
E  Project Costs and Financing ..............................                     17
(1)  Project Costs  ......................................                 17
(2)  Project Financlng ....................................                18
F  Project Results ............. ..                           .                  18
(1)  Direct Benefits  . ..........................8........                i
(2)  Econcmic Impact .....          ....................  ....... . ....   18
(3)  Studies ............................                                  19
G  Status of Covenants  ...........  ............. ..f...... .................   19
H  Use of Bank Resources .              ...................................      20
(1)  Staff Inputs ...........  004*.....................................   20
(2)  Missions  ..........................................                  21
MAP - IBRD 14534R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1008-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cormunity
Forestry Development and Training Project in Nepal, for which Credit 1008-
NEP in the amount of US$17.0 million was approved on April 22, 1980. The
project was also funded through USAID and UNDP grants of US$6.1 million and
US$1.7 million Government contribution. The credit was closed on June 30,
1989, three years behind schedule.   It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on January 6, 1989.
The PCR was prepared with the assistance of ar. PAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme mission which visited Nepal in April 1990.11 The
Borrower had been requested by the FAOICP mission to prepare Part II, but
this has not been received.
The PCR is based on the review of the relevant documents,
including the preparation and appraisal documents, credit agreement,
supervision and mid-term review mission reports, techuical reports prepared
by the FAO/UNDP Technical Assistance Project, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, discussions held with key Government staff and World
Bank personnel familiar with the project, data collected during the
mission's field visits, and internal Bank memoranda.
11 PAO/CP's report was reviewed by ASIAG and, apart from some minor
corrections, remains as submitted.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COMMTNITY PORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 1008-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
3.        The  project  was  designed  as  the  first  phase  of  a  national
afforestation programme in Nepal.   It aimed ats   (a) developing community
forestry, with the involvement of the local panchayats in the Hill districts;
and (b) establishing training facilities to meet the national needs for qualifiec
forestry staff, and provide in-service training for community forestry
operations. Generally, these objectives were achieved.
4.        The total estimated cost of this five-year project was US$24 million,
funded through an IDA Credit of US$17 million, USAID and UNDP grants of US$6.1
million and a US$1.7 million contribution by the Government.   The project
activities started in 1980 and continued into 1989 - four years beyond the
original date of its completion. There was no cost over-run in dollar terms,
although. in local currency costs exceeded appraisal estimates.
ImDlaaentatiom Experience
5.        Although  the project  succeeded  in exceeding appraisal targets,
implementation was beset with several shortcomings (paras 5.3 to 5.8).
Plantations suffered from low survival rates. Delays in the release of budgeted
funds adversely affected plantation operations and field staff morale. Although
a rich variety of species suitable for community forestry plantations and well
tested technology for their multiplication were available within the country,
they were not effectively used.  Less emphasis than intended was placed on
regeneration and improved management in the project-covered forest plantations.
The project focused on panchayats as targets without effectively involving the
intended beneficiaries. Many of the communities were not sure of their rights
to and benefits from the trees planted and the process of transferring management
responsibil'ites to the panchayats was very slow. Implementation of civil works
did not progress satisfactorily and involved higher costs, dre to construction
design deficiencies, and inadequate attention to detail at preparation and
appraisal stages.  Although TA inputs played an essential part in evolving
technical standards for critical project operations and helping field
implementation, research support did not progress as expected, for want of
Government coordination.



- iv -
Results
6.        In addition to initiating a large-scale comunity forestry programme
in 29 Hill districts, the project contributed to increasing training capaclty
and skilled manpower for forestry development. Results of economic re-evaluation
at project completion show an estimated ERR of 14S which is 2S lower than the
appraisal estimate.
7.        The training facilities created through the project helped to reduce
manpower shortages in the forestry sector and upgrade community forestry skills.
The project's intervention helped to strengthen institutional arrangements
enabling the G,-ernment to undertake a larger community forestry programme
throughout the country. The project also carried out valuable groundwork for
the smooth phasing-in of the WB-supported follow-up project, viz. Forestry III,
and served as a vehicle to bring about policy changes and introduce legislative
measures towards improving community forestry operations in the country.
Sustainability
8.        Experience so far gained indicates that community participation not
only in establishing plantations but in their management and protection is
critical to sustain production. Progress made so far under this project has beer
unsatisfactory, but these lessons served to formulate a better preparation of
the follow-up project consisting in changes in the law, procedures, policy and
design. These improvements were introduced under the Hill Community Forestrv
Project (Cr. 2028-NEP), which became effective May 14, 1990.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.        But for the Bank's decisin to extend the disbursement period and
approve the follow-up project without much delay, the prospects for sustaining
the momentum generated by the project would have remained uncertain. Although
implementation suffered due to Government's procedural rigidities and operational
inefficiencies,  an   encouraging  feature  is that  the Government has been
responding to emerging problems, initiating measures to address them.
10.       Some of the shortcomings encountered in the implementation could have
been mitigated through careful scrutiny of s (a) construction designs and costs
at appraisal stage; and (b) qualitative aspects of plantation development and
beneficiary issues during the supervisory phase.   The main lessons of this
project experience ares
-      Preparation and appraisal missicns should have a clear focus on
local funding needs, budgetary procedures and flow of fund
arrangements.
-      Equally important is the need, both at preparation and appraisal
stages, to ascertain the availability of land, physical plans
and designs for civil works and pay attention to details of
construction costs, including physi..al contingencies.



v 
Where appropriate, conczderation should be given to training a
core group of project administrative personnel in project
accounting procedures and procurement to meet Bank requirements.
Attention should be paid not only to the formal compliance of
project covenants but to the 'substantive' aspects of their
implementation.
Sustained management of community-planted forests is only likely
if the communities themselves have a large measure of
responsibility for site selection and plantings and if their
harvest rights are known from the outset.
Conceptually innovative projects, requiring a large degree of
beneficiary involvement for their success, are likely to be
slow in starting, and this should be allowed for at preparation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Cr. 1008-NEP)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Protect Identity
Project Name      :  Community Forestry Development and Training Project
Credit No.        s  1008-NEP
RVP Unit          s  Asia Region
Country           I  Nepal
Sector            s  Agriculture
Sub-sector           F Forestry
S.    Background
11. Forestry plays a key role in the economy and ecology of Nepal. In the
Hill districts - which contain over 45Z of the country's 18 million population,
68? of the total land and 63Z of the forest area, and where agricultural resource
endowments are meager - forests form an intL5ral part of the subsistence farming
system and serve as sources of fodder, compost, fuelvood and construction timber.
Over the years, due to population and grazing pressures resulting in increased
demand for fuelvood and fodder, the forestry resources in these districts have
been depleted at an alarming rate without concomitant reforestation or improved
management.
12. Recognizing the environmental implications of this degradation and the
necessity to cater 'o the basic needs of the increasing rural population for
fuelvood and fodder, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (EKG) introduced some
radical changes in its forestry policy and sectoral objectives. These changes,
as reflected in the (1976) National Forestry Plan and (1978) amended Forestry
Rules, sought to address the problems of environmental degradation and 'rural
energy crisis' through stepping up afforestation with community participation.
13. Consistent with this, the project -ts conceived as the first phase of a
national afforestation programme aimed at:  (a) developing community forestry
in the Hills; and (b) establishing training facilities to satisfy internal needs
for qualified forestry and soil and water conservation personnel and to provide
in-service training.



2
C.   Prolect Objectives and Description
14.  The principal objective of the community forestry aspect of the project was
to increase supplies of fuelvood in Hill areas through establishment of new
plantations and rehabilitation of areas of degraded forest. Secondary objectives
were to provide fodder, grass and wood for agricultural implements and house
construction and introduce and popularize improved cooking stoves as a fuelwood
conservation measure.
15. The objective of the training support was to enable Nepal to meet future
trained manpower needs of the forestry sector and re-train the existing staff
presently concerned with commercial timber extraction and forest law enforcement,
in the skills of community forestry.
16. Components of the project were:
(a)  Communit- Forestry Development
(i)  To provide funds for staff, equipment, horses and vehicles, operating
expenses and nurseries at the Forest Division and village panchayat
levels to:
-   establish 11,750 ha of Panchayat Forests (PF);
-   rehabilitate 39,100 ha of Panchayat Protected Forests (PFP); and
-   establish about 0.9 million trees on private lA..4.
(ii) Support Forest Department operations by provision of additional staff.
buildings, seed stores, equipment, vehicles and operating expenses to:
-   establish a Community Forestry and Afforestation Division (CFAD)
in the Forestry Department;
-   strengthen Ministry of Forest (MOF) forestry research activities;
and
introduce fuel conservation measures through the establishment
of Stove Improvement Unit (SIU) in CFAD and construction of 15,000
improved stoves.
(b) Forestry Training
(i)  Expand staff training facilities by providing staff, operating costs,
civil works, equipment and vehicles to:
-   establish a new university campus; and a programme for training
Officers, Foresters.   1 Soil and Water Conservation Technicians;
-   upgrade the existing Forestry Institute; and
-   establish an In-service Training Wing within the Ministry of
Forestry.



3
(c) Kid-term Review and Feasibility Studies
ti) Provide funds fort
- mid-term review on project progress;
-   a feasibility  study on timber extraction from high  al   Ade
forests; and
-   a feasibility study on the provision of fuelwood for urban areas.
(d) Technical Assistance
(i) To provide about 115 man-y7ars of technical assistance to assists
-   the field planting programme;
-   CFAD organization and administration;
-   forestry research; and
-   training course design and the lecturing programme.
17. The project area included 28 administrative districts covering one-third
of the country and containing five million people.  The total estlmate. cost of
this five-year project was US$24.8 million. This was to be funded through an
IDA credit of US$17.0 million, USAID and UNDP grants of US$3.24 and US$2.84
million respectively, and a US$1.7 million contribution by the Government of
Nepal. The Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation was responsible for project
implementation of the community forestry and in-service training components, and
the Tribhuvan University under the Ministry of Education for diploma and
certificate training.
D.    Project Design and Organization
18.  Design.   The conceptual basis  for the project was provided by the
Government's Forestry Rules introduced in 1978 which were aimed at involving
communities and private concerns in forestry development and management. This
legislation, among otber things, also aimed at the handing over of state forest
lands to the local communities through the Panchayat system, either as Panchayat
Forest (PF) for re-establishing forest cover, or as Panchayat Protected Forest
(PPF) for protection and management.
19. The project was identified and prepared with the assistance of FAO/CP in
1978-79 and appraised by WB in 1980. Main adjustments during appraisal were:
addition of sub-components for forestry research, improved stove technology, mid-
term project review, feasibility studies on extraction of timber from high
altitude forests and development of fuelwood supplies for urban areas, extra
training facilities at Pokhara and Chautara, a new office building for the



4
Forestry Department Training Wing aud the extension of the project period from
four to five years.
20.  The project was designed to focus on afforestation in unforested or denuded
areas with community participation through the Panchayat system. Although the
need to establish forests on subscantially greater areas than proposed under the
project was recognized, due to constraints of trained manpower shortages and lack
of skills in community forestry, low afforestation targets were fixed.   To
relieve the manpower shortages and provide an institutior.al framework suitable
for implementing the community forestry prGgramme, the project scope included
provision for: (a) impr ving training facilities; (b) remedial training for the
forestry staff - oriented in forast law enforcement, licensing and commercial
timber extraction - in skills of promoting community forestry; and (c)
establishing a separate Community and Afforestation Division within the Forestry
Ministry.  In these respects, the project -gn was sound.  The timing of the
project was also appropriate as it became operational in the wake of the
Government's decision to devolve respor.sibility and control over management of
forests from the Forest Department to the level of Panchayats.   However,
considering the nature of forestry development activities involving diverse rural
communities located in relatively inaccessible mountainous areas, the project
ought to have been designed allowing for a longer implementation period.
21. Orgxanization. A special division, viz. CFAD, was established within the
Forestry Ministry through amalgamating the then existing Afforestation Unit with
new units for Community Forestry (CFU), Motivation and Publicity (MPU),
Monitoring and Evaluation (MEU), Stove Improvement (SIU) and Administration to
organize community forestry activities. Tribhuvan University under the Ministry
of Education and the Training Wing of the Forestry Department were responsible
for  implementing the training  component.   To ensure coordination,  three
coordination comm.. tees were constituted: (a) the Project Coordinating Committee
to determine overall policy and coordinate with other departments;   (b) the
Community Forestry Coordinating Committee to ensure coordination at the working
level; and (c) the Community Forestry Technical Committee for analyzing technical
aspects of project progress.
22.  CFAD field staff were entrusted w$th the responsibilities to motivate the
panchayats to participate in the programme, to assist in identifying the PF
lands to be planted with trees or sites to be protected (PPF), and to prepare
management plans for the plantations including details of arrangements for
distribution of future production. Provision was also made to engage Panchayat
Forest Foremen to supervise nurseries and planting operations and provide
community forestry extension, and Forest Watchers for protection of PFs and PPFs
to be eventually paid by the participating communities. While unskilled labor
in the villages was to be employed for nursery work, pitting and planting
operations, voluntary labor was to be organized by participating panchayats
for tending and harvesting operations.



5
X.    Proleet i, eImentaMtion
23.  The project started in 1980 and continued into 1989 - about four years
beyond the originally scheduled date for its completion. During the initial four
years, disbursement was very low (Part III, C) due to starting difficulties,
delays in the submission and reimbursement of Claims, and problems associated
with the preparation and approval of construction designs and contracts. Low
disbursement and the increase in project funds in local currency (due to the
depreciation of the local currency) during the project period, resulted in the
extension of the project thrice.   By January 1989,  the Credit was fully
disbursed. Total project cost in Nepalese rupees exceeded appraisal estimate
although there was no cost over-run in dollar terms. Grant funds provided by
UNDP were used for technical assistance through PAO-executed NEP/801030 project
until the end of 1987, and USAID assistance was extended beyond 1989 to provide
continuing support for training facilities. The project was implemented in 29
(instead of 28) districts without any change in its objectives or components.
24. Community Forestry. The physical achievements of the community forestry
component, as shown below, surpassed appraisal targetst
Indicators                     Appraisal Targets  Achievement
(1980-85)         (1980-88)
Participating Panchayats (no.)              340                 752
Nurseries (no.)                             391                 788
Plantations (PF+PPF) - ha                15,560              31,228
Private planting (no. of seed-          900,000           6,726,020
lings distributed)
Stove distribution (no.)                 15,000              28,567
These figures, however, do not reflect the dLfficulties encountered in
implementation and the shortcomings of some of the physical achievements.
25. Project PF plantations suffered from low survival rates due to poor quality
seedlings, damage caused by grazing animals and use of saplings of species
unsuitable to the local environment. Delays in the release of budgeted funds
for seed collection, nursery preparation and plantation operations hampered
plantings in appropriate seasons, adversely affecting their growth performance
and the morale of field staff. Although the country is endowed with a rich
variety of species appropriate for community forestry operations and has well
tested techniques for reforestation, including for broad leaf species, the
emphasis in most project plantations was on pines. This was mainly because pine
seedlings could easily be multiplied and were considered more suitable for the
sites made available for community plantations. Private planting, which made
remarkable responses by exceeding the j-oject target by over 6002, also
encountered the problem of non-availab'lity of desired species (fodder, fruit
and other broad-leaf) in the project nurseries.   Implementation placed less
emphasis on regeneration and improved management in PPFs - for which provislon
was made under the project - which have great potential for high returns at
minimal investment.   The process of handing over the PPFs to panchayats and
devolution of responslbilities to the local communities for managing the



6
established plantatLons was very slow. For want of adequate instructions, the
lmplmenting fleld officers could not detail the modes for the distribution of
interim plantatLon beneflts (e.g. fodder, loppings, fuelvood, etc.) and many of
the communities were not sure of thelr rights to and benefits from the trees
planted. The project focused on panchayats as the targets without effectively
lnvolving intended beneficiarles.  In most cases, the role of panchayats was
limited to organizing plantatlons. Many of them did not satisfactorily assume
long-term responsibilLtLes - both administrative and flnancial, for post
plantation activlties, including paying the watchers. The experience revealed
that the panchayat was not the appropriate body for managing village community
forestry, and fLeld-level staff reqt'ired additLonal skllls and orientation to
work with local communities.
26. The stove sub-component was intended to promote fuel conservation measures
in the countryside.  Despite the large number of its distribution under the
project and apparent advantages, it has not been widely accepted by local
communities. Independent studies cn the performance of stove programmes in the
country indicate that as much as 40Z ? the stoves distributed under various
projects were abandoned during the first year of their distribution; most of
those in use were located in urban or semi-urban centers, and few stoves survived
beyond four years. The main problems of the stoves distributed under the project
were their high breakage rate and unsuitability for local cooking requirements.
27.  Training support provided through the Credit was used for the:   (a)
construction of a new campus of Tribhuvan University at Pokhara; (b) provision
of  improved  facilities  in  the  Institute  of  Forestry  at  Hetuada;    (c)
establishment of a new Training Wing for the Forestry Hinistry; and (d) field-
level Xraining. Implementation of civil works for (a), (b) and (c) progressed
slowly and involved higher costs than originally estimated. This was mainly
becauses (a) the designs and estimates made during preparation and at appraisal
(particularly for the university campus) were inadequate and did not reflect
actual requirements; (b) availabllity of land for construction activities was
not ascertained in advance; and (c) there were considerable delays in obtaining
the formal approval of the WB for the new designs and drawings submitted. In
respect of the Training Wing, establishment of physical facilities outpaced
technical staff availability for training and the Training Wing had to rely
heavily on ad hoc arrangements to engage part-time lecturers from other agencies.
28. A Hid-term review on project progress was done in 1983, jointly by the
Government, WB, UNDP and FAO. This review concluded that the approach developed
through the project was appropriate to the conditions in hill districts and the
communities were responding to it, and in future, attention should be paid tot
(a) improving qualitative aspects of plantation operations; (b) strengthening
community participation in management, including the benefits of the plantations;
and (c) providing flexibility in project operations to meet local needs. These
recommendations, however, did not signific&ntly affect the project actions or
its implementation style during the post mid-term review period. The feasibility
study on extraction of timber from high altitude forests was not considered
relevant during implementation and hence not undertaken. The study on fuelwood
for urban areas (para 16) was carried out but the results of this study have
not been used to formulate any new action programme.



29.  Technical Assistance was provided throughs  (a) UNDP-funded PAO project
NEP/801030 in support of community forestry development component activities;
and (b) USAID, as part of their Resource Conservation and Utilization Project
(RCUP), primarily for strengthening training activities in the campus constructed
under the project.   Services of over 30 volunteers secured through separate
agreements between the Government and voluntary organizations of UK, USA and
Japan were also used for field activities In conjunction with the assistance
provided through the FAO project. Findings of the mid-term review, as well as
the terminal report of the above-mentioned FAO project, indicate that the TA
inputs have in general been of good quality and played an essential part in
evolving technical standards for nurseries and plantations, developing extension
methods and materials, introducing and implementing monitoring systems, and
supporting in-service training activities. A large proportion of the man-months
provided under the TA component was accounted for by the services rendered by
volunteers in support of implementation of field activities. Although the TA
project was extended twice, it could not be extended until the closure date of
the Credit.
30. Research support for community forestry did not progress as expected at
appraisal.   In contrast to the original proposal for strengthening research
services within CFAD, by establishing a nationwide provenance trials, it was
decided by the Government during implementation that research for community
forestry would be conducted as a part of the general research programme of the
Ministry. In practice, however, this did not happen. For want of coordination,
silvicultural and other forestry research trials were all undertaken in locations
outside the project area. Although, as required under the project, a draft
national forestry research plan was prepared to ensure coordination and liaison
between research scientists, it was not firmed up.   The Forestry Technical
Committee, established in accordance with the project covenants, did not function
efficiently either to bring about this coordination.
P. Project Results
31.  Overall,  the project achieved its main objectives.   In addition to
initiating a large-scale community forestry programme in 29 hill districts, the
project also contributed to increasing training capacity and skilled manpower
for forestry development. At full development, the main outputs of the project
plantations, as estimated at completion, would include 350,000 m3/year of
fuelvood and 24,500 tonnes (in dry weight) of fodder/year. At appraisal, these
were estimated to be 190,000 m3/year fuelwood and 330,000 tonnes (in green weight
equivalent to 82,500 tonnes dry weight) of fodder/year. The projected output
increase is due to the reported increase in the area under plantations rather
than yields which, for some of the reasons mentioned in para 25, are estimated
to be relatively lower (6 tonnes/ha) than the appraisal figures (16 m3/ha
equivalent to 8.5 tonnes/ha). The lower fodder output, in comparison to the
appraisal estimate, resulted because most project plantations contain pine trees
which produce little or no fodder.



8
32. Results of economic re-evaluation at project completion show an estimated
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 14?, which is 2? lower than the appraisal
estimate.   This low rate is mainly due to increased costs and lower yield
projections. The ERR would improve to 17X if costs of training and technical
assistance (included in the appraisal eutimate) are excluded from the analysis.
33. The training facilities created through the project (in Pokhara and
Hetuada) helped to reduce manpower shortages in the forestry sector through
facilitating a Bachelor's Prograume in Forestry for forty students per year and
two-year certificate courses for about 110 forestry technicians per year.
Similarly, the establishment of the Training Wing within the Department of
Forestry enabled the Government to provide in-service and remedial training to
the existing forestry staff and orientation/basic training to newly recruited
community forestry personnel. Although in the initial stages the intake was very
low, now the Training Wing provides in-service training for about 200
persons/year. The problem of non-availability of trained trainers continues to
exist.
34. The project's intervention also brought about certain orgatAizational
improvements within the Forestry Department.   CFAD (now called CFDD,  i.e.
Community Forestry Development Division) formed through project assistance, not
only helped to organize and implement the project's community forestry component
but with project's experience it has now emerged as a central institution and
Division within the Forestry Department with wider responsibilities to provide
guidance and supervisory support for a large-scale community forestry programme
throughout the country.
35.  Project Impact.   In gauging the project success and its impact, it is
essential to keep in view the following: (a) the project was the first large-
scale effort to involve local communities addressing the problems of degradation
of forestry resources and declining supplies of fuelwood and fodder; (b) it was
implemented in the most difficult terrains, where communications are very poor,
poverty is widespread and forestry surpluses have low financial value; (c) the
development approach itself called for fundamental changes in the attitudes and
behavior of participants requiring long periods to produce significant results;
and (d) procedures adopted were too new and most of the field level personnel
initially involved in implementation were lacking in community forestry extension
experience. Viewed from these perspectives, the project, despite some of its
shortcomings, carried out valuable groundwork, evoking interest of local village
communities in forestrv development activities. This is reflected in the
development of vi'lage nurseries, increase in the availability of seedlings,
enhanced private interest in farm forestry, training and placing field staff,
development of extension materials and facilitating a nationwide community
forestry programme.   The project contributed to a smooth phasing-in of the
follow-up WB-assisted project, Cr. 2028-NEP. The project was also a building
block and catalyst in promoting and spreading the community forestry concept in
other locations outside the area of its coverage. Almost all the twelve on-
going externally assisted forestry projects have rLow included community forestry
as an important component in their programmes.  Further, the organizational,
administrative,   technical  and  social  experiences  gained  through  its
implementation have considerably benefited the WB-assisted Second Forestry



9
Project (Cr.1400-NEP) being implemented in 14 districts in the Terai region of
the country.
36. Besides, the project has served as a vehicle to bring about policy changes
and introduce legislative measures towards improving the institutional framework
for larger community forestry operations throughout the country. In the light
of project implementation experience, the Government effected some changes in
its 1978 Forestry Rules to enhance local people's participation and commitment
through introducing the concept of 'user groups'.  The Forestry Master Plan,
completed in 1988 with the assistance of ADB and FINNIDA, envisages that over
46? of the investment programme (US$811 million) for Nepal's forestry development
during 1990-2010 should be devoted to community forestry. The Government's 1989
Forestry Sector Policy also underscores that community forestry 'will have
priority among other forest management strategies in the country" and the main
objectives of this strategy would be to increase the supplies of fuelwood, fodder
and timber for meeting the basic needs of the rural population.
37. The project activities, among other benefits, did provide employment
opportunities (14,000 man-years) to the generally impoverished population in the
hill districts. There is evidence that the investments made through the project
would help to improve the fodder and fuelwood situation in these areas.  The
environmental impact of the project is positive. PF plantations established on
denuded and over-grazed areas and, in some cases, areas subject to severe erosion
and degradation, have helped to conserve soil and water in many of the project
localities, as well as take pressure off the natural forest resource.
G.    Proiect Sustainability
38. Since most project plantations are less than seven years old and the
project itself is the first phase of a long community forestry development
programme in the hills, experience is too short for its sustained performance
to be evaluated. Forestry experience in the country through its various forms
of development - State, private, nationalized and panchayat forestry - as well
as some of the successful village forestry programmes, show that people's
participation not only in establishing plantations but in management and
protection are critical to sustain production. As indicated earlier, the process
of transferring the management rights for the project plantations to the
communities has been very slow and the communities themselves are not clear about
their rights to the trees planted and the arrangements to share the benefits.
When the panchayats - the focal point institution for project plantation and
benefit sharing arrangements - were abolished, satisfactory institutional
arrangements to sustain the project benefits were lost.   To resolve these
problems, the Government took adequate measures under the follow-up Hill
Community Forestry Project (Cr. 2028-NEP), to not lose the potential for
generating the expected long-term returns. Furthermore, the incremental staff
and institutional facilities brought in by the project require continued
budgetary support.   Although the follow-up forestry projects might ensure
continuity of funding for staff and facilities, arrangements are required in the
long run to ensure recovery of most costs from the beneficiaries.



10
B.    Bank Performance
39.  Bank's support to the project, from identification through its completion,
was generally satisfactory. The decision to extend the disbursement period until
the beginning of 1989 and approve the follow-up project without much delay,
considerably benefited the project. But for this, the prospects for continuing
with the development works initiated and sustaining the momentum (in community
forestry activities) gained through the project would have remained uncertain.
Bank supervision missions monitored the project implementation fairly closely.
40.  Some of the shortcomings encounterEd in the implementation could have been
mitigated through more careful scrutiny oft (a) construction designs and costs
at preparation and appraisal stage; and (b) qualitative aspects of plantation
development and beneficiary issues during the supervisory phase.   The main
lessons of this project experience are:
(a) preparation and appraisal missions should have a clear focus on local
funding needs, budgetary procedures and flow of fund arrangements.
The lack of a satisfactory flow of budgeted funds was a recurrent
theme of almost all the supervision mission reports on this project;
(b) equally important is the need, both at preparation and appraisal
stages, to ascertain the availability of land, physical plans and
designs for civil works and pay attention to details of construction
costs, including physical contingencies (para 27);
(c) the project experience also has shown that, where appropriate,
consideration should be given to training a core group of project
personrnel in project accounting procedures to meet Bank requirements;
(d) attention should be paid at supervision not only to the establishment
of institutions and other instruments, as required under the covenants
of the project, but to the 'substantive' aspects of their
implementation (para 30);
(e) sustained management of community-planted forests is only likely if
the communities themselves htave a larger measure of responsibility for
site selection and plantings and their tree tenure rights are well
defined from the beginning.   It is essential from the outset to
establish proper procedures to ensure harvesting rights accrue to the
participating communities. Under the follow-up project these problems
have been addressed;
(f) it is important to recognize that when a project is based on
innovative techniques and concepts and it is the first time the
implementing agency is to work with an external financing agency,
start-up is likely to be slow and either modest targets should be
adopted or disbursement periods should be longer; and



11
(g) the experience of the project also suggests that components included
at appraisal without adequate studies, are not likely to do very well.
I.    Borrower Performance
41. The Government's performance has to be viewed in the following
perspectives. The project was the most innovative and largest-scale operation
in forestry ever undertaken by the Government. The Forestry Department itself
had no previous experience in executing any World Bank project. Implementation
suffered due to a combination of factors: Government's procedural rigidities;
delays in the (a) appointment/deployment of key project staff (e.g. for the past
three years, the decision has been deferred to appoint a capable full-time
director for the CFAD); (b) clearance of technical assist ice consultants; lc)
release of budgeted funds to meet plantation development requirements; and (d)
transferring management responsibilities to the panchayats. Implementation of
the WB supervision missions' recommendations concerning structure and
organization, policy adjustments and deployment of manpower resources was also
slow. Existing structural and functional divisions within the Government have
also been causing some operational inefficiencies. An encouraging feature is
that the Government has been responding to emerging problems and has initiated
some measures (e.g. agreements to form user groups, review and improve financial
procedures) to address some of these problems during the follow-up project.
J.     Project Relationship
42. The Bank relationship with the main Government agency responsible for
project execution has, in general, been good. Both the Bank and Government would
have gained if the WB Resident Mission could have been strengthened and given
the responsibility to liaise with the key Government officials involved in day-
to-day implementation, monitor overall implementation progress and assist them
to deal with locally reiolvable operational issues (e.g. preparation of
reimbursement claims, scrutiny of construction designs).
K.    ConsultinQ Services
43. Services rendered by project consultants and contractors were considered
generally satisfactory by the Government.
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
44. The project covenants reinforced institutional changes, enabling the
project to achieve its main objectives.  In retrospect, it would appear that
inclusion of a special covenant on benefit aspects would have been more
productive, obliging the Government to take effective action to specify the
benefit sharing arrangements for the project plantations and speed up the handing
over of the authority and management responsibility to the beneficiaries.
45. Documents on the project, including preparation and appraisal reports,
credit agreement, supervision and mid-term review mission reports, a series of
technical working papers prepared under the FAO/UNDP TA project, and Government
progress reports on CFAD activities - all helped project implementation and also



12
provided useful information for preparing the PCR. However, cost information
was not kept in detail to allow realistic compar' sons with appraisal estimates.
This is because three different Government units maintained separate accounts
without ever consolidating them according to either project components or
expenditure categories. Also, very little information was collected on the post
plantation performance of PF and private plantations, beneficiaries and benefits,
including biomass yields of plantations. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
established under the project did not undertake any evaluation of the project
impact. There is, indeed, a clear need to pay attention to this aspect during
the follow-up project.



13
PART It - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Part II has not baen received)



15
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related 1B Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title  Purpose                             Year of      Status
Approval
Credit 1400-NEP    To establish state, private,    1983             On-going
(Second Forestry)  community, agro-forestry
plantations and to improve
selected natural forests in
the Terai.
Credit 1727-NEP    Rasuwa-Nuwakot Rural                1986         On-going
Development Project -
includes a forestry
component re-phasing the
Government' s Community
Forestry Policy.
Credit 1769-NEP    Structural Adjustment Credit   1987              Completed
- to develop an appropriate
policy environment for the
implementation of Community
Forestry Programme in Nepal.
Credit 2028-NEP    Develop a Community Forestry   1989              Effective
Programme in the Hills                         Nay 14, 1990
B. Proiect Timetable
It.e                 Date Planned         Date Rewieed     Dat Actual
Idbntlticatlon (EPS)   September 1978     -                Sept. 1978
Proparation          Jan./Feb. 1979       -                Jan./Feb. 1979
Appraisal misolon    April/May 1979       -                May/Juno 1979
Negotiations         81 October 1979      -                B1 October 1979
Board approval       18 Docember 1P79     -                22 April 1980
Signing              -                    -                22 May 1980
Effectiveness        -                    -                22 September 1980
Credit closing       80 June 1988         22 Juno 1988     80 June 1989
Credit completion    -                    -                7 May 1990



16
Comntes
47.    Issues raised at Preparations
(a) Need for Government approval for recommended organizational changes.
(b) Confirmation required on availability of office facilities for CFAD.
48. Issues raised at Appraisal:
(a) Payment of project allowance to non-project suaff (mission
recomuended to restrict it to project staff).
(b) Cost recovery - (mission recommended that no cost recovery was
feasible).
(c) Amendments required to Forestry Act 1961 and associated Forestry
Rules 1978.
C. Credit Disbursements (US$ million)
Year         Cumulative Disbursement           Actual as X       Actual as Z
Appraisal                        of EatLnate        of Total
Estimte         Actual
1980             0.50          0000
1981             3.00          0.38                 12                 2.1
1982             7.00          0.61                 8                   3.6
1983            12.00          1.19                 10                  7.0
1984            14.50          3.20                 22                18.0
1985            16.40          6.60                 40                38.9
1986            17.00          10.12                59                59.6
1987            -              14.76                -                 84.2
1988                           16.93                                  90-6
1989                           17.00                                 100.0
Date of Final Disbursement:  6 January 1989



17
D. Project Implementation (1979/80 to 1987/88)
Appraisal            Actual (or PCR
Indicators                         Estimate               ZEtimates)
1. Participating Panchayats (no.)            340                     752
2. Nurseries (no.)                           391                      788
3. Plantations (PF+PPF) (ha)              15,560                  31,228
4. Private planting (no. of seed-
lings distributed)                    900,000               6,726,020
5. Stove distribution (no.)               15,000                  28,567
E.  Project Costs and Financing
(1) Project Costs
Appraisal          Actual
Estimate
. .(US$ million) . . .
I. Disbursement CaLegory (DCA)
1-A  Civil works by force account            4.70               5.06
1-B  Civil works - other contracts           2.10               4.64
2.    Goods and equipinent                   0.40               0.49
3.    Training, TA and consultants           1.20               0.26
4.    Staff salaries and allowances          3.00               4.05
5.    Project operating costs                2.30               2.50
6.    Unallocated                            3.30              -
Sub-total                                   17.00              17.00
II.   TA Funds from UNDP and USATD           6.08               6.01
III.  Government Contribution                1.70               1.70
TOTAL                                       24.78              24.71



18
49. lomments.  Government did not keep cost data in detail to enable comparison
with appraisal format (see para 12.2, Part I). Hence, project cost comparisons
presented in this table are based on details presented in credit agreement and
credit disbursement documents, as well as the records of other project financing
agencies.
(2) Project Financing
Su.o me Eapu,iiuro C.tawies                    Plenne Agreement       iawei)            Final          C    Wo
DA (for VI I  ~   ~         ~         Cia.                (BS)            156.oo
iDa  (for villSgO  foeetrr t"i"ning, techniloa 17.00                                   10
*-nit anc  nd ochfr dave I opent coets)
LNDP/FAO (for technical riotence)               2.84                 -                  2.77            "a
LJSAID (for technical e*-litence)              8.24                  -                  9.24
HMO                                             1.70                 -                   1.70          100
TOTAL                                         24.76                                     #4.71
F.  Project Results
(1) Direct Benefits
Dieltwoi                                Arsralel &Atimate,                      batlmt.  MAt a   ee9
Benefiting pancheyate (number)          840                                     762
Fuslvood production                     190.000 Na                              80,000 .S
Loaf fodder                             880,000 tonnes in green woight (equi-    24,ti0 tonne
valent to 82.,00 trnne  in dry wight)
GmployIent                              8,700 an-yoere                          14.000  n-years
Reduced ue of fuelwood (coneer-         28,000 tonnee frau  13.000 etovee, such .800 tonnee from 18,901 btove,* each stove
vation of fuol-ood)                     *aving 1.66 tonnes per year             *eving 460 ka/year (with em monthe Service
(2) Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual
Economic Rate of Return                          16Z                               142 1/
Underlying Assumptions:
(1)  SCF                                          0.9                               0.9
(2)  Project life                            30 years                          30 years
1/ 17Z, if training and TA components are excluded.



19
(3) Studles
StudLes                                              Status                               Impact
Feasibility study on                                Not undertaken
Extraction of Timber from
High Altitude Forests
Feasibility study on                                Completed                             No notable follow-up
Provision of Fuelvood for
Urban Areas
G. Status of Covenants
CO-ARt (Cr. Agreement)                     S4oA                                          s
1. Covernaant to ateblia1O and mintain         (2)                       Cowplied with              Thir   has n ince been
Community Forestry and AfforestatianreadCmmnt
Diiin(CFAD).                                                                                    Forautry Ovevlcpment
2.  Oovernaent to *ctablie h and mintain       (USA)                      a UvIelen (CMD)
Project Coordination Comitteo.
S.  Covern_ent to *etablich/aaintain           (S)                        a
C,mmunity Forestry Coordination Committee
4. Government to eatabilch and maintain        (SaC)                      a
Comnity Forestry Technical Comittee.
S.  bovernment to eatabilah and *aintain a    (Sao)                       *
Tr'aining Wing within the Ministry of
Forestry.
6. Oovernment to eatablieh and mintain a    (SWB)                         a
Motivation and Publicity Unit within CFAD.
7'. Government to estabiieh and maintain a    (SSP) 
Monitoring and Ewvluation Unit within CFAD.
e.  Government to eatablieh and mintein a   (W) 
Stove X proveLnm Unit within CFAD.
9. Governmet to axspIoy epert  to meIet    (3.02) 
In carrying out the projact,
10. Governeent to  atahblieh rwevie team to   (3.04C)                    *id-term  review done In
examine project, progress.                                                                           1962.
11Fn  orv etrnn to * Iect study tuea  for      (3.06C)                   *                          Not an tim
F. lood Study.
12. TOR and comp ltion of team for Timber   (J.060)                      (Revie d)                 Mat considered relevant
Extraction Feasi bility Study
1S. CFAD to iaeue Forst Management Plan        (8iO0)                    Complied with
for each village panchayet.
14. Government to prepare National Foreatry  (8.06)                      *                          Preered (dreft Plan)
Plan
15. Oovernment (CFAD) to loe. Foreat           *                         a
Management Plan for each project village
penc eyat .
16. Government to collect basic dast,          *                         Compiled with
M:rpare TOR and select team to carry- out
F      eseiood P ibility Study.
17. Government to send audited                 a                         Gomp ied wIth for yONre
accountelr,oporte due to ID.                                             197946



H. Use of Bank Resources
(1)  Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Task    Pr_-FYS FY78    FY79    FYO0    Ft81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FYBS    FY06    FY87    FY81    FY89    FY00    Total
LW      9.2      18.0    86.4    -         -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        113.6
LENA    0.5      -       38.0    21.7    -         -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        67.2
LEI     -        -       -        8.7      -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        8.7
LOP     0.6      0.2     0.8      8.4      -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        10.0
Spl     -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        4.6      -        -       -        -        4.5
SP"     0.1      -       -        -        7.2     18.1    6.8       18.6    18.2    9.1       7.7     4.4       0.5     0.1      8S.5
PAD     -        -       -        0.1      0.8     0.8      -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        1.1
Totel   10.4   1l.2    122.2    8.8    *.9         13.4    6.8       18.5    18.2    18.6    7.7       4.4      0.5      0.2      200.6
LEW -   Activities prior to appraisal.
LENA -   Activities related to appralisl.
LEIU -   Nsgottation activities.
LOP -   Pro-appraisal and appraisal work by Couuitwy Dow' ,
SPN  -   Supervision ti;.
PAD -   Projet aImnistration work during sapr'. *lon stag.



20
B. Mfissions
M1esie.t                boetb/leer            No. of Pesons Days la Fl-ld  Specialiation               Pertoamee  ebOing  TAM of Problm
St.t..  I/          2/
Identificti on          Septembr 1978         n.n. na..                      n.e.                      na.                .na.
Preparation             January/February 1979 -               -                                        n.a.                n.n.
Appraisal               may/June 1979         6               -              Fore,    Agriculture,n.e.                     n.n.
Sociology,   Training,
Stove techno logy
Supervision 1           August 10             1               10             Rural Development         1                   p
Supervision 2           March 1901            1               25             Forestry                  n.a.                n..
Supervision 8           September 1961        1               14             Rural Developmet         2                    T,P
Supervision 4           Decebr 1981           6               19             Agriculture,    Forestry,2                    M,P
Sociology,   Manpower,
Monitoring and Evaluation
Supervision 6           October 1962          1               14             Agriculture              2                    M,P
Supervision 6           October 1968          1               10             Forestry                 2                    M,P
Supervision 7           May 1984              1               9              Forestry                 2                    T
Supervision 6           December 1964         1               18             Agriculture              2                    T
Supervision 9           June 1965             18              a              Forestry,   Management,2                      T,V
Sociology
Supervision 10          November 1965         8               1              Rural Dovelopment           n.e. 3/           n.a.
Supervision 11          July 1966             1S              2              Rurol   Dov-lopm-nt,n.a.                      n..
Forestry
Supervision 12          April 190             n.e.            1              Rural Devolopmt          n.m.                 n.m.
Supervision 18          November 106          15              1              Rural Devolopment        nn.                  n.a.
Supervision 14          October 1967          16              1              Forestry                 n.a.                 n.e.
1/ Performnce RatIng: 1 a Problem-fre  or minor problem; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 a Major problem.
2/ Type of Problem: P x Political; T - Technical; M * Managerial;
3/ Fomt of Supervision Reports change since this mission. Performance status and type of problms Indicator* not given.



NEPAL
K.                     /W NN                                                                                                                                                                     A
IDA  ongoing nonl donloientp
IDAoeo3 qi C-nity                         'j                 \                                                                                                           COMMUNITY  FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
projoct nequiring Communitvy     's9         
F.ot,yn'  Donelop-ot and 
TFrining P,ojt  apm porp .                                                              (t.                                                                                                                          AND
TRAINING PROJECT
J  /   '1'                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED PROJECT DOVlSONS_
H-olo           _
****-d    -                                          >RIDI                                                     GROUP A
-W-;DOTI  GROUP B
7        ONGOING  FORESTRY  PROJECTS
2 V2) r<ARU lFOREST DIVISION  BOUNDARIES
Treab,FeAekowt                                                                                                                        FORESO DIVISION  HoEADQUARTERS
57.pc1,= ne^.7#  7  CHAUTARA DIVISION FORESTRV PROJECT e IDISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
ADolp                 (                   R.                                                                   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
r.*r.wc7'.n  9  SAGARMATHA JRURAL                   -             Mustang                                                                     .-    IERNATINAL BOUNDARIES
b7b7ff~~~~~~~~~~~~Ji.,k
4                                                                                                                                                    FEE V IfTERAI
3   N.Idiv,d-ul prozono a   iFdi,,abod by
**  K  ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~           ~~~        TRI.~~~~~~Ll,,~~~~~                        no~tati-n of Pntor-  dirotio.,
*                                                                               o~~~~Cs    20   40    05   so
-pol   ~    ~         ~        i445n~od7
~~wB                                r         Bk tctnpue    *   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>  l                                  10          ANHANJUNGA/
.7K             r-'      ~~~~4 K.blnr                    MAKSH
7    ONGOING FORESTRY PROJECTS                                                     N-13- ool 9
I  MARAKALI HILLS RUJRAL DEVELDPMENT (IDA) (F-t,V Undo, Preo-,t P,0000-
2   RARNALt-BRERI INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT  CIDEAl                                           RoutlAct                                               M > 
3RAPTI RURAL DEVELOPMENT IUSAIDI 
00000,0000,0.00000,0,                            0~~~~~4  RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT IUSAIDI
,..OOau.,o0,0To,o,                               E~~~~~~~ TINA KDLA WATESRSHF  PRtOJECT ISOTA-GERMANY)VIbp
mnbolnoobnooo~~~~~Looono            ~            6B  ASUWVA-NUWAKOT INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENI PRDJECT (IDA) 
onnOeO.eOoo.Oloo.0,no.o                          0~~~~ CHAnTAROA DIVISION FORESTRY PROJECT (AUSTRALIA)                                                                    A
Ro.OooOO.oo1000,                             A~~~~~~~1  LAMASANIGS  JIRI PROJEICT ISATAIA
*oooAn.o,.uo,u. '~~~~''~~                       B  SAGARMATHA RURAL DEVELOPMENT (ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK)
*Oo0,0000*OO000 .00m000 a                        15~~'O  KOSI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (U.K.)
FEBRUARY 1991



