Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2763-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
April 2, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onty in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorirtion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00      =      NRs 12.00
NR 1.00      =      US$0.08
NRs 100      =      US$8.33
METRIC SYSTEM
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ACRONYMS
CFAD      -   Community Forestry and Afforestation Division
CFU       -   Community Forestry Unit
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
MEU       -   Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MPU       -   Motivation and Publicity Unit
PF        -   Panchayat Forest
PPF       -   Panchayat Protected Forest
SIU       -   Stove Improvement Unit
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development
ABBREVIATIONS
ha        -   hectare



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              US$17.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The proposed project would be the first phase of a twenty
year national forestry program aiming to develop community
forestry in the Hills and to establish training facilities
in Nepal to satisfy needs for qualified forestry and soil
and water conservation personnel. The proposed project
would increase supplies of fuelwood in Hill areas through
establishment of new plantations and rehabilitation of
degraded forests. The Ministry of Forest would be reor-
ganized and strengthened through the provision of support-
ing services and training facilities. Technical assistance
would be provided to assist in execution of field planting
programs, in organization and administration of the new
Community Forestry and Afforestation Division, and in
establishment of the training and research programs.
Production from project plantings would reach a peak in
year 20 of the project when timber from the Panchayat
Forests is clear-felled; total production in that year
would provide about one-third of the total fuelwood
requirements of the 1.9 million people in the 340 pancha-
yats participating in the project. The annual sustainable
yield of fuelwood from Panchayat Protected Forests and
private plantings would be sufficient to provide the full
requirements of 10% of the project area population. The
project is designed to minimize the risks of inadequate
community participation, through the work of the monitor-
ing and evaluation and the motivation and publicity
units, as well as the retraining and upgrading of forestry
staff in a methodology for successful implementation of
such programs. Furthermore, the project provides for a
midterm review to evaluate the progress of the program and
recommend adjustments if needed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                                         US$ Million Equivalent
of Project: 1/      Component                      Local   Foreign   Total
I.  Village Forestry Program
Panchayat Forests                0.73      0.08     0.81
Panchayat Protected Forests    0.36        0.04     0.40
Private Plantings                0.01        -       0.01
Nursery & Forestry Development 2.95        0.33     3.28
Subtotal                  4.05      0.45      4.50
II.  Project Administration
Project Organization             4.50      1.29      5.79
Stove Improvement                0.16      0.08     0.24
Subtotal                4.66      1.37      6.03
III.  Training                         2.12      2.26      4.38
IV.  Technical Assistance             0.41      3.69      4.10
V.  Midterm Review and Studies       0.05      0.22      0.27
Base Cost              11.29      7.99    19.28
IV.  Contingencies
Physical                         0.67      0.14      0.81
Price                            3.08      1.61     4.69
Subtotal                3.75      1.75      5.50
TOTAL PROJECT COST            15.04      9.74    24.78
Financing Plan:                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                  12.7       4.3      17.0
Government                             1.7        -       1.7
UNDP                                  0.3       2.5       2.8
USAID                                 0.4       2.9       3.3
Total                              15.1       9.7      24.8
Estimated IDA                              US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:       IDA FY        1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Annual        1.5    3.5   4.5   4.0   2.0   1.5
Cumulative   1.5    5.0   9.5  13.5  15.5  17.0
Rate of Return:      16%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2663-NEP dated March 25, 1980.
Map:                 IBRD No. 14534
1/   Includes a negligible amount of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the equivalent of US$17.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Community Forestry Develop-
ment and Training Project. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) are
expected to provide about US$6.1 million equivalent on a grant basis for
technical assistance and training requirements of the project (para 42).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Development Perform-
ance and Prospects" (Report No. 2692-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 14, 1979. The principal findings of the Report are
described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at $110 (1977), and health and education standards
are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth is about
45 years, infant mortality 150 per thousand, and adult literacy 19%. The
population, growing at the rate of 2.6% a year, is estimated at 13.3 million
(1978). Over 90% of the population live in rural areas.
4.        The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts
for 68% of GDP and 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the industrial sector,
which comprises about 9% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials.
About 25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-agricultural
activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important of these,
engaging over 1 million people and comprising about 7% of GDP. They provide
basic consumer goods in the many small, isolated markets where such goods
4       would otherwise not be available.
5.        As a small open economy, Nepal is highly susceptible to developments
in India. The Terai, which lies along the Indian border, has close and
virtually free trading links with India, and accounts for about 60% of the
country's GDP, and about 40% of the population. The Kathmandu Valley, the
administrative and commercial center, is closely linked with the Terai, but at
significant transportation costs. The rest of the country, the Hills and
Mountains, is almost inaccessible and consists of a large number of fragmented
markets.



-2-
6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic or
administrative infrastructure. :[nitial development efforts were necessarily
concentrated on establishing a foundation for future development. During
these early stages, it was inevitable that growth would remain slow and that
there would be little if any increase in per capita income. However, the
Fifth Development Plan (1975/76-1979/80) was to be a turning point; it was
believed that the country was poised for more rapid growth on the order of 4-
5% annually. The level of investment was to increase substantially and its
focus to shift towards the more dlirectly productive sectors and the social
services.
7.        Public investment performance has been excellent; development
expenditures have grown at over 15% annually in real terms and the Government
has been relatively successful in reorienting investment away from the trans-
port sector towards agriculture and the social services. However, few of the
other Fifth Plan objectives have been achieved. The GDP growth rate is likely
to average only 2.4% per year, mainly because of poor agricultural performance.
Little progress has been made in increasing agricultural productivity and
agricultural production increased at an annual rate of only 0.7% during the
first four years of the Fifth Plan. Growth in other sectors has been mixed,
with the poor agricultural performance limiting the growth of agro-related
industries. Production in several large industries including jute goods,
sugar, leather goods, and cement have increased but most Fifth Plan targets
will go unmet. In the services sector, tourism has been dynamic, but it
still only contributes about 1% of GDP.
8.        The economic situation deteriorated markedly in 1979/80 and is now
worse than it has been in many years. The poor monsoon in South Asia in 1979
has had a severe impact on Nepal's foodgrain production in 1979/80. Both the
maize and rice crops suffered major losses, and as a result, agricultural
production is likely to decline by 4%. The non-agricultural sector continues
to be constrained by supply bottleneck problems and delays in the preparation
of new development projects in the! public sector. This sector's growth is
expected to be only about 4% in 1S979/80, which when combined with the decline
in agriculture, gives a 1% decline in GDP.
9.        The disappointing overall performance of the domestic economy during
the Fifth Plan period has been accompanied by a widening trade deficit.
Imports have grown under the impetus of the Government's development program
while the trend in export earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice
exports. The deterioration on the trade account has been partly covered by
increased tourism receipts and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal
serving in the British or Indian armies). Foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. Foreign exchange reserves in July 1979 were
equivalent to nearly nine months of imports. However, the shortfall in food-
grain production in 1979/80 could have a serious impact on Nepal's external
position, since not only will rice exports further decline, but foodgrains
will have to be imported, this all coming at a time when Nepal's oil bill is
rising steeply. The Government has therefore appealed to the international
community for emergency assistance in obtaining foodgrains and for help in



3-
distributing food to the shortfall areas; so far donors have committed 33,000
tons of foodgrains.
10.       On March 31, 1978, the authorities replaced a complex system of
multiple exchange rates and exchange and trade restrictions with a dual ex-
change system. Transactions with India, which were virtually free from
restrictions, were unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade and
transit with India were also concluded in March 1978. Under the dual exchange
rate system, Nepal maintains a basic rate of Rs 12.00 per dollar, with a
second, premium rate applying for all merchandise trade with third countries
except for imports of certain development goods. On February 21, 1980, the
premium rate was changed from Rs 16.00 per dollar to Rs 14.00 per dollar, but
the exemption from the second rate was restricted to only imports of petrol
and petroleum products, cement and chemical fertilizers. These exchange rate
adjustments involved an appreciation of about 14% for exports to third coun-
tries and an overall appreciation of about 2% for imports from third countries.
But this was partly offset by (i) withdrawing the 12% duty on exports of raw
jute; and (ii) raising import duties on a wide range of imports from third
countries. However, with the exception of raw jute exports, earnings in
domestic currency from exports to third countries will decline, leading to a
possible shift of some exports to India. The overall trade balance is likely
to be adversely affected by the recent measures.
11.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
failure of agricultural production to keep pace with population growth. Over
the period 1967-77, foodgrain production grew at an average annual rate of
only 1.5%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of
this, since average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Although poor monsoons
have adversely affected agricultural production, the more fundamental reason
is the failure to exploit more fully the irrigation infrastructure. In
the past, insufficient attention has been paid to bringing water down to the
farm level and this has been compounded by inadequate support services such
as extension and research, timely supplies of improved seed and fertilizer
and other inputs, credit and farm-to-market roads. However, recent major
irrigation projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are addres-
sing these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
12.       In the Hills and Mountains, which contain only one-third of the
country's agricultural land and yet have nearly two-thirds of the population,
population pressures have pushed cultivation up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land; average yields have actually declined. Population density on
agricultural land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh. Malnutrition
is acute; food production meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs.
Because they have little to trade except their labor, one-third of the inhab-
itants of these Hill areas migrate seasonally to the Terai plains and northern
India for food and work.  Since the early sixties, an estimated 400,000 have
migrated permanently, and there are signs that this exodus is accelerating.



-4-
13.       The seriousness of the economic and social problems confronting
Nepal calls for a well focused development strategy that directly addresses
the difficult choices to be made. The revised Fundamental Principles of the
Sixth Plan recently adopted by the Government and endorsed by members of the
Nepal Aid Group at its January 31, 1980 meeting, is an important milestone in
the Government's efforts to evolve a program that meets Nepal's needs. The
highest priority is placed on developing agriculture, including revitalization
of Hill food production to meet local requirements since significant agro-
climatic specialization between the Hills and Terai is feasible only in the
longer run. At the same time, since land holdings in the Hills are too small
to generate much more than subsistence needs, programs will be started to
encourage diversification into other activities such as small-scale and
cottage industries to supplement Hill incomes. For the Terai, the strategy is
to continue efforts to realize the Terai's considerable potential for increas-
ing production of foodgrains and cash crops. The irrigation infrastructure
is to be more fully utilized and improvements to extension services and asso-
ciated inputs concentrated on those areas with irrigation facilities. Rural
electrification through mini-hydel is seen as an important element in provid-
ing for increased production in rural areas. Reafforestation programs
are given priority in order to provide fuelwood and fodder as well as to
reduce soil erosion.
14.       While these efforts in the directly productive sectors merit urgent
attention, Nepal faces similar challenges in developing its human resources.
Although curbing population growth requires major actions, selective programs
in education and health can greatly assist population planning as well as
alleviate human suffering and lay the basis for future increases in produc-
tivity. The Government's strategy recognises that the approach must be
selective since programs for meeting basic needs generally have only a long-
term impact on manpower development but divert resources away from activities
more directly and immediately relat(ed to production. Increasing foodgrains
production will meet the major need of improved nutrition. Better and more
readily available supplies of drinking water and fuelwood will meet other
needs, while also freeing labor currently spent in their collection. Basic
health facilities are to be expanded through integrated community health
posts, while in education, stress is placed on improving the quality of
primary and adult vocational education. Family planning programs are to be
stepped up. The other basic need to be met in rural areas is improved trans-
port, and the Sixth Plan will include programs to improve trails, tracks, and
suspension bridges.
15.       For Nepal to establish a basis for more rapid and sustained growth,
the structure of its economy will need to change since its present dependence
on agriculture limits the economy's overall growth potential to about 4% per
year.  Tourism offers perhaps the best near-term potential for increased
foreign exchange earnings; however, efforts are needed to reduce its capital
intensity, strengthen linkage with other local industries and extend its
benefits beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Hydropower also offers some possibil-
ities, but neither it nor tourism will solve Nepal's increasing unemployment
problems. In the long run, Nepal must diversify and develop its industrial
sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be on a highly selective
basis. The multiplicity and complexity of the constraints to industrial



- 5-
development, including the lack of natural resources and a skilled labor
force, as well as Nepal's small domestic market and landlocked position will
nullify any generalized approach. Public enterprises need to operate more
efficiently, village and cottage industries should be promoted. Beyond this,
joint ventures with India, for example, as in cement production, may be
attractive. The preconditions for industrialization must be established in
the near future or there is a danger that Nepal will always be struggling to
move its economy beyond subsistence. These include providing financial
incentives, research and extension services on the technical, financial and
marketing aspects of enterprise, and the upgrading of manpower skills in the
areas where Nepal may have a comparative advantage.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to support its development efforts, considering the extreme poverty, low
degree of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy. Revenue grew at
16% a year in current terms between 1969/70 and 1978/79, while as a percentage
of GDP it increased from 5% in 1969/70 to about 9% in 1978/79. Over the same
period, the Government was able to maintain savings on current account in
excess of 2% of GDP, a good achievement for a country in Nepal's economic
position. However, this excellent record is now in jeopardy. Revenues from
income and land taxes declined in 1978/79 and, although total revenues grew by
14%, the bulk of the increase came from taxes on international trade as a
result of higher imports. No real growth in total revenues is expected during
1979/80, after allowing for inflation. This slowdown reflects not only the
weak economy in 1979/80, but also the impact on the tax system of the political
difficulties facing Nepal. While only limited scope exists for discretionary
tax measures, there is potential for increased tax revenues from agriculture,
particularly in the Terai. Revenues could be increased through improving the
tax machinery, and the government has approved, in principle, various admin-
istrative reforms in this direction, including the formation of a Special
Revenue Service.
17.       Foreign assistance has been a decisive factor in Nepal's development.
During the Fifth Plan, foreign financing equalled about 45% of development
expenditures. In view of the limited prospects for increased domestic resource
mobilization, foreign financing requirements may be about 60% of planned Sixth
Plan development expenditures, which amount to about Rs 10 billion or over $800
million at 1979/80 prices. Aid commitments need to average about $225 million
annually during 1980-82 compared with $160 million during 1977-79. However,
even this level of foreign assistance would not provide the Government with
sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption demands. Additional aid,
either through financing a higher proportion of total project costs or in
the form of commodity assistance, could provide budgetary support to meet
pressing recurrent expenditure requirements, particularly in the social
sectors.
18.       Although foreign aid commitments and disbursements grew by over 25%
annually during the Fifth Plan period, only 40% of disbursements included in
the Government's budget were from foreign borrowing, the remainder being
grants. As of December 31, 1978, official foreign debt outstanding was
only US$88 million, of which US$75 million was due to multilateral agencies.



-6-
These loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element
of total aid remains in excess of 90%. As a result, debt service payments
were only US$3.1 million during 1978/79, equivalent to less than 2% of exports
of goods and services. Medium-term prospects are also good; by 1981/82 total
service on existing debt is expected to amount to only US$5.1 million, still
less than 2% of projected goods and services exports.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 million equivalent for a t:elecommunications project. In the fol-
lowing nine years, 18 additional credits were approved, bringing total IDA
assistance to Nepal to US$201.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In
view of Nepal's many development needs, this assistance has been for projects
in a wide variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for 89% of IDA
credits by amount: irrigation (29% for 4 projects); power (20% for 1 project);
telecommunications (11% for 3 projects); highways (10% for 2 projects); water
supply and sewerage (10% for 2 projects), and rural development (9% for 2
projects). The remaining 11% of IDA assistance has been for one project in
each of the areas of settlement (3%), technical education (3%), tourism (2%),
technical assistance (1%), and industrial development financing (2%). The
proposed credit would be the first in FY80, bringing the total amount of IDA
assistance to Nepal to US$218.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No
Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal
($3.1 million) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations as of February 29, 1980, and notes on
the execution of ongoing IDA projects. It show§ certain delays in the imple-
mentation of these projects, particularly during the initial periods. These
delays have been largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial
capabilities. In order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint,
considerable technical assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, includ-
ing our Resident Mission in Kathmandu.  As a result, improvement in the rate
of disbursements is being realized. During FY78, US$11.4 million equivalent
were disbursed compared to US$12.8 mjillion equivalent disbursed during the
entire previous seven years; disbursements during FY79 improved again to
$18.2 million equivalent. Disbursements during the first eight months of
FY80 indicate that this improved pace is being maintained with US$13.2 million
equivalent disbursed during that period.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has persistently shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic
development and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck.  The
main constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited
absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implement-
ation. The Bank is assisting the Government in project preparation through
the Technical Assistance Credit and by acting as executing agency for a number
of technical assistance projects in the current UNDP Five-Year Program. The
Bank Group has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its
role in organizing the Aid Group for Nepal.



-7-
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, food production, grain storage,
cottage/small industry, water supply and power is under way.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
22.       The present forest area of Nepal is about 4.5 million ha or about
32% of total land in Nepal -- about 2.8 million ha in the Hills and 1.7 mil-
lion ha in the Terai. Forestry, including logging, contributes about 10%
of agricultural output, or roughly 6-7% of GDP. Forests above an altitude
of 2,600 meters consist mainly of conifers, with some hardwoods; much of
this forest is overmature and inaccessible. The forests in the Hills, lying
between 2,600 and 300 meters, vary considerably and are scattered in patches.
In general, fir and oak predominate at higher altitudes, gradually giving
way to chir pine, prunus, castanopia, schima, and alnus at medium eleva-
tions, and ultimately to sal, a hardwood. In the Terai (below 300 meters)
mixed hardwood forest, mainly sal and asna, is found, which contains no
softwood species.
23.       Forestry in the Hills is under great pressure from increasing
population density, scarcity of agricultural land, and maintenance of live-
stock herds which significantly exceed the carrying capacity of the upland
pastures. This in turn has caused considerable problems of soil erosion,
loss of potential agricultural lands, drying up of mountain streams and
severe downstream flooding and sedimentation. Because of the increasing
difficulty of absorbing the growing population in the Hills, many have
moved down to the Terai, clearing forests and attempting to establish
agricultural settlements. Recent studies by the Government indicate that
continued encroachment into the forests for fuelwood, fodder, and settlement
is inevitable and that accessible forests in the Hills could disappear with-
in 14 years and those in the Terai within 25 years. In the last decade, the
Government figures show a reduction in forest land by over 25%. The rate of
consumption of forest resources is likely to have been even greater, because
many areas now classified as forest are in fact degraded wasteland with few
or no standing trees.
24.       Overshadowing all other forms of wood use in terms of volume and
forest area requirement is the demand for fuel wood, which in rural areas
accounts for 95% of all wood consumption. For the country as a whole,
fuelwood accounts for 87% of all energy consumption. Per capita consumption
of fuelwood is estimated at about 1 cubic meter per year; this is about four
times the per capita consumption level of the Indian plains, due to the
greater demand for cooked foods and heating in the Hills, and the ineffi-
ciency of the commonly-used stoves. In the Hills, forest fodder and pasture
contribute about 74% of the feed for livestock (compared to 32% in the Terai
where crop residues play a larger role). Due to overstocking in the Hills,
the livestock herd is not contributing as much to the productivity of the



-8-
farm unit in the form of milk, wool, and draft power as is possible, and is in
fact contributing to the degradation of the forest and agricultural resources.
25.       Alternatives to fuelwood, including improved end-use Lfficiency, .
biogas, solar energy, wind, geothermal, hydroelectric, coal, and lignite are
being explored, but it is highly unlikely that these sources would yield
much of the total rural energy needs even in the most optimistic circum-
stances. And given the current sociological and religious attitudes, it is
also unlikely that the livestock herd can be reduced. Therefore, to meet
future demands to the year 2000 for fuelwood and about half of the fodder
demand would require about 1.43 million ha of land to be reforested (1.3
for fuelwood and 0.13 for forest fodder).
26.       Ownership.  All forest lands were nationalized in 1957 and private
ownership of forests was redefined over the course of the next several years
and then limited to a maximum of 50 ha. By the Forest Act of 1961, the
Government required the demarcation of forests and established a Forest
Department to undertake the overall administration and management of the
national forests. In recognition of the need to involve the local communities
in the protection and regeneration of forests, the 1961 Act was amended to
recognize two types of community forestry activities where land and rights to
forest produce are granted to local communities -- the Panchayat Forest (PF)
and the Panchayat Protected Forest (PPF). The panchayat system is the
three-tiered political and developmental organization in Nepal, and in this
case refers to the local or village level. The PF was defined as Government
forest lands which have been rendered waste or contain only saplings and
which require replanting; the PPF was defined as Government forest lands
which require only improved management and protection to ensure adequate
forest cover. Net proceeds from the sale of products from the PPF would be
shared with the Government according to the recently revised forest rules on a
25:75 basis. The disposal of produce from the PF would not be subject to a
royalty, but would be disposed at the discretion of panchayat and would be
subject to general terms as established by the Forest Department.
27.       Institutions.  The Ministry of Forest is responsible for the
forestry sector via its departmental activities as well as through the
operations of a number of semi-autonomous government corporations dealing
with timber and timber products production and sales. The main ministerial
department is the Forest Department, under the direction of the Chief Conserv-
ator of Forests. The territorial organization covers the entire country and
consists of nine subdivisions, known as circles, further divided into 40
divisions and 174 ranges.  These forestry units do not coincide with the
administrative districts of the other line Ministries. The Forest Department
has been chiefly concerned with forest law enforcement and the licensing and
organization of timber sales in the Terai. The Forest Department is respon-
sible for national parks and wildlife, forest survey and research. A small
program for afforestation has also been started. Within the Ministry, sep-
arate departments for soil and water conservation, botany and medicinal
plants, resettlement, and planning have been established.
28.       There is no training facility in Nepal at the degree or diploma
level for professional forestry officers. Forest officers have, in the
past, been trained at the Indian Forestry School at Dhera Dun. Training of



-9-
forest technicians at the certificate level is conducted at Hetaura in the
Inner Terai, where a forestry institute has been established under Tribhuvan
University. Present training is mainly oriented toward commercial forestry
production in the Terai. Foresters are trained in a two year program, and
until recently, forest rangers in a three year program. The third year of
training to qualify as a forest ranger has now been shifted to inservice
training within the Forest Department. The Forest Institute trains about
100 foresters per year.
29.       Development Strategy.  The Forestry Sector Review 1/ identified
five major issues currently facing the forestry sector in Nepal:
(a) rural energy crisis;
(b) soil erosion;
(c) land use policy in the Terai;
(d) domestic industrial wood supplies; and
(e) social and institutional constraints to implementing
effective protection and development programs.
To address these issues, the Sector Review recommended that the Government
forestry development strategy give priority to a national reforestation
program. Such a program to ensure improved fuelwood and forest fodder
supplies would also play a significant role in protecting hillsides from
further erosion. The Sector Review also recommended that completion of
the land use survey be expedited in order to define the forest areas in the
Terai which could be safely alienated to agriculture.
30.       While additional administrative and financial resources would be
allocated to these programs, the key to the program was identified as the
ability to mobilize the cooperation of the village people. Through the PF
and PPF programs, the Government is seeking to reestablish responsibility
in the local communities for forestry development and for forest protection
and management. To ensure maximum impact from the forestry operation, highest
priority would be given to production of fuelwood -- the most urgent and
visible need. This would relieve pressure on existing forests and ease the
burden on fuelwood collection.
31.       The Government has also recognized that the problems of refores-
tation in the Hills require immediate attention and that the non-commercial
nature of forestry development in the Hills would require an organization
structure quite different from that working with the commercial timber and
settlement operations in the Terai. To this end, the Government has estab-
lished a special division within the Forest Department to handle community
forestry programs in the Hills. The Forest Department has a fairly limited
program of afforestation under its own resources, but has or is scheduled to
participate in forestry components in multisectoral rural development projects
1/   Report No. 1952-NEP, dated August 1, 1978.



- 10 -
in 32 administrative districts. The proposed national community forestry
program would cover all districts not presently involved under other foreign-
assisted schemes.
32.       Bank Group Support.  The Bank Group is at present involved in an
ongoing rural development project for Rasuwa and Nuwakot Districts (Credit
No. 617-NEP, US$8.0 million equivalent), which includes a program for refore-
station and erosion control. This program is proceeding well with 477 ha
reforested and erosion control measures to be taken to protect irrigation
systems and 155 kilometers of tracks and trails. A similar program was
originally proposed for inclusion in the second rural development project for
the Mahakali Hills (Credit No. 939-NEP, US$11.0 million equivalent), but
was deferred to be consolidated in the countrywide community forestry project
being considered here. The Bank Group has also been supporting a settlement
project in the Terai (Credit No. 505-NEP, US$6.0 million equivalent). The
project was intended to introduce a novel and cheap method of extracting
timber in the Terai, while at the same time, make available fertile agricul-
tural land for settlement -- the cost of settlement being borne in a large
measure by the additional profits of the timber operation. Progress has been
slow, due to difficulties in the management of the forestry clearing opera-
tions, and technical assistance is being obtained to help speed up operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The Project was prepared by His Majesty's Government with assist-
ance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. It was appraised in May/June
1979, and negotiations were held in Washington in March 1980. The Nepalese
delegation was led by Mr. P.K. Manandhar, Chief, Community Forestry and
Afforestation Division, Ministry of Forest. The staff appraisal report
(No. 2663-NEP, dated March 25, 19830) is being distributed separately. A
supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
34.       The proposed project would be the first phase of a twenty year
national reforestation program whfich assigns major responsibility for forest
management, development and protection to local communities. The principal
objectives of the project would be to: (i) increase supplies of fuelwood in
Hill areas through establishment of new plantations and rehabilitation of
degraded forest areas; and (ii) establish training facilities in Nepal to
satisfy the future manpower needs of the forestry sector.
Project Description
35.       The five year project would comprise the following:
(a)  strengthening Ministry of Forest operations through
establishment of a Community Forestry and Afforestation
Division and upgrading forestry research activities,
through provision of additional staff, training, technical
assistance, buildings, equipment and facilities;



(b) establishing forest plantations on about 11,750 ha of
Panchayat Forest, rehabilitating about 39,100 ha of
Panchayat Protected Forest and providing about 0.9 mil-
lion seedlings for planting on private land in 340
village panchayats (Map No. IBRD 14534);
(c) introducing 15,000 improved cooking stoves;
(d) establishing a new facility and program for forestry
training and upgrading the existing forestry institute
at Hetaura, supplemented by the establishment of an
inservice training wing within the Ministry of Forest,
through provision of additional staff, training, tech-
nical assistance, buildings, equipment and facilities; and
(e) providing consultant services to undertake a midterm
review of the project, and feasibility studies on extrac-
tion of timber from high altitude forests and provision
of fuelwood for urban areas.
organization and Implementation
36.       The Forest Department has been reorganized to undertake community-
based forestry development. A Community Forestry and Afforestation Division
(CFAD), with a Community Forestry Unit (CFU), has been established to which
would be added new units for Motivation and Publicity (MPU), Monitoring and
Evaluation (MEU), Stove Improvement (SIU) and Administration. The CFAD would
be maintained and headed by a person with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association and the CFU would be maintained and headed by
a person with relevant qualifications and experience (Schedule 4 to the DCA,
para 2). The MPU, MEU, and SIU would be established and headed by persons
with relevant qualifications and experience by August 31, 1980, and outlines
of their proposed work programs would be furnished to the Association for
review before December 31, 1980 (Schedule 4 to the DCA, paras 3(a) (v), (vi)
and (vii) and 3(b)). Funds would be provided under the project for incre-
mental staff and operating costs, office buildings, and vehicles and equipment.
Forest officers, rangers, and foresters in the project area would be assigned
new responsibilities for the community forestry program in addition to their
regular duties of forest protection. Additional staff, including a forest
officer to assist with administration, would be provided at forest division
headquarters. The staff would receive special inservice training; additional
and replacement staff would be trained at upgraded facilities for certificate
and diploma level training in Nepal (see paras 40 and 41 below).
37.       The establishment of overall policy and the coordination of project
activities with programs and policies of other governmental agencies would
be achieved through a senior level Project Coordinating Committee, to be
chaired by the Secretary of Forest. Members would include the Chief Con-
servator of Forests, the Director General of the Soil and Water Conservation
Department, the Dean of the Forestry Institute, the Head of the Forestry
Research Division, and representatives of the Ministries of Home and Pan-
chayat, Finance, Agriculture, Land Reform and Education; the Head of CFAD



- 12 !
would serve as secretary. At the working level, planning and implementation
of project activities would be directed by the Community Forestry Coordinating
Committee, to be chaired by the Chief Conservator of Forests. Members would
include representatives of the Forest Institute, the Ministry of Home Panchayat,
and the heads of the operating units of the CFAD. Representatives of FA0 and
other bilateral aid agencies would be invited to attend at the discretion of
the chairman. A Community Forestry Technical Committee would be responsible
for analyzing the technical aspects of project progress, for recommending
changes in procedures and for introducing improved methodology. This com-
mittee would be chaired by the head of CFAD and would include the Dean of the
Forestry Institute, the Heads of the Soil and Water Conservation and Research
and Survey Departments, the head of the MEU of the CFAD, the silviculturalist
expert to be provided by FAO, and representatives of other ongoing aid pro-
grams which have large forestry components. These three committees would be
constituted before August 31, 1980 (Schedule 4 to the DCA, para 3(a)(i), (ii),
and (iii)).
38.        The CFU, with its chain of command through four regional sub-units,
and supported by the programs of the MPU, MEU and the technical Afforestation
Unit, would work with 340 village panchayats out of the 1,090 village pancha-
yats in the Hills to prepare suitable programs of forestry development.
Village panchayats would apply to the Ministry of Forest for the right to
lands which they propose to be demarcated as PF or PPF. The Ministry would
review the applications and the suitability of the areas proposed, and would
grant to those considered acceptable on technical and administrative grounds
a certificate establishing the PF or PPF. These grants would be given once
the village panchayats and the CFAD have signed an agreement by which the
village panchayat agrees to abide by the Forest Rules and through which
the responsibilities of all parties are outlined. Forest management plans,
establishing schedules for nursery work, forestry plantings, hiring of staff
and the agreed rules for the management of forest resources would be issued by
the CFAD for each participating village panchayat. It would be the responsi-
bility of the village panchayats to enforce the agreed rules regarding access
to and sharing of the produce and to protect the plantings from poaching,
fire, and other damage. For thesea services, the village panchayats would
receive assistance in establishing nurseries, direct financial support and
technical supervision for undertalcing forest plantings, and plant materials.
Before a village panchayat could receive assistance under the project, it
would be necessary for the CFAD to issue the agreed management plan for the
respective village panchayat; the final version of the format for the manage-
ment plans, satisfactory to the Government and the Association, would be
issued by September 1, 1980 (Section 3.07 of the DCA). Fifty village pancha-
yats in 10 of the 17 forestry divisions have already been identified for
initiation of programs in the first year of the project. Each village pancha-
yat scheme would be forwarded to the relevant district panchayat for approval
and would be noted in the consoliclated District Development Plan. The divi-
sional forest officer would participate in the district panchayat meetings at
which proposals for PF and PPF would be discussed (Schedule 4 to the DCA, para
1(a)).  Under each panchayat scheme, it is expected that two nurseries would
be established and project plantings of about 90 ha of PF and 115 ha of PPF
would be accomplished in phases over a six year period. Works would be



- 13 -
undertaken by labor paid and supervised by CFU foresters. The village pan-
chayats would be responsible for recruiting panchayat forest foremen to help
with the nurseries and plantings and panchayat forest watchers to assist in
the protection of the forests; these panchayat staff would also be paid under
the CFU program. Villagers would be encouraged to plant trees on their own
land near the homestead. These would be mainly fodder trees, but some easily
propagated fruit trees could also be planted. The target would be to plant
about 900 trees per year per village panchayat, with seedlings and seeds to be
provided free of charge at panchayat nurseries. Seed required by the nurseries
would be provided through the seed section of the Afforestation Unit. Suffi-
cient staff would be made available to manage the seed stores (Schedule 4 to
the DCA, para l(c)).  Funds would also be provided under the project for
construction of office accommodation and staff quarters in each of the forest
divisions, plus three additional seed stores.
Training
39.       To meet the manpower requirements for the expanding forestry pro-
grams, the proposed project would support both increased formal training in
forestry at the certificate and diploma level and would assist in the estab-
lishment of training facilities within the Ministry of Forest for inservice
training. It has been estimated that the Ministry of Forest would annually
require the addition of 40 officers at the diploma level and 200 technicians
at the certificate level to meet probable future development needs. The
Forest Institute at Hetaura, which is run by Tribhuvan University and pro-
vides certificate-level training, would be upgraded by the provision of an
auditorium, student hostel and living units, and staff housing. Because
the training is based on the conditions in the nearby Terai and associated
commercial production, a program suited to conditions in the Hills would be
established at a new forestry institute in the Hills, near the Pokhara campus
of Tribhuvan University. This new program would offer diploma and certificate
level training for forestry and soil and water conservation. The Dean of
the Forest Institute, Tribhuvan University, would be responsible for the
implementation of the formal training component (Schedule 4 to the DCA, para
1(b)). Facilities for inservice training would be provided for the Ministry
of Forest in Kathmandu, with field training facilities to be provided at
Chautara. A new training wing, headed by a person with relevant qualifica-
tions and experience, would be established within the Ministry of Forest
by August 31, 1980 (Schedule 4 to the DCA, para 3(a)(iv)). Draft curricula
for the diploma, certificate, and inservice training courses have been prepared
and agreed with the Association.  Land acquisition for all new construction
work for all four training facilities has been completed.
40.       To meet the immediate staffing needs of the CFAD, twenty-five
science graduates would be sent abroad, for two year courses in forestry, with
five extending an additional four months for courses in forestry research.
Twelve staff in the stove improvement unit would also be sent for training
programs in India. Six new science/ agricultural graduates and six serving
soil and water conservation and forestry officers have been selected for
graduate study programs in the subjects to be part of the diploma syllabus,
and thereafter to serve as lecturers for the diploma course at the new Pokhara
campus. As the timing of the return of these officers is critical to the



- 14 -
commencement of the diploma course in 1981, all candidates have either departed
or are ready to depart for these training programs in overseas universities.
Lecturers and staff for the certificate level courses would also be upgraded.
Of the existing staff at Hetaura, two lecturers would be sent overseas each
year for three years for further non-degree training. The staff for the new
certificate course at Pokhara would be drawn from the Hetaura staff and others
within the Ministry.  It is intendled that these staff would participate in six
months courses in the US or nine months FAO training officers courses in the
Philippines (one staff member per year per course over a four year period).
Overseas training would also be provided for three training officers of the
inservice training program within the Ministry of Forest.
41.        The two certificate level programs would each train about 100
technicians annually, for a total of about 700 technicians over the project
period. Starting in 1984, about 40 professional officers annually would
complete their training at the diploma course offered at Pokhara. The courses
to be offered at the inservice training wing would cover reorientation of
forest officers and foresters, the third year of training to upgrade foresters
to ranger grade, and the practical needs of nurserymen and panchayat forest
employees. At full development, twenty-five inservice courses would be given
each year for about 2,000 staff members.
Technical Assistance
42.        Because the concept of community forestry is new to Nepal and
because of the shortage of trained forestry staff, about 115 manyears of
technical assistance would be required in the early years of the project.
Experts would assist in execution of the field planting programs, in the
establishment of the organization and administration of CFAD headquarters,
and also help establish and participate in the training and research programs.
Under the UNDP program, executed by FAO, four experts would be provided to the
CFAD headquarters -- forestry adviser, silviculturalist, socioeconomist for
the MEU, and a communications specialist for the MPU. Under a program admin-
istered by UNDP/FAO, 14 expert foresters from various voluntary and aid
programs would be provided to assist with the field programs, serving in seven
of the forest divisions. The USAII) program, under its Resource Conservation
and Utilization Project, would provide two training officers for the Ministry's
inservice training wing (forestry and soil and water conservation) and a total
of about 200 man-months of services of lecturers and a coordinator for the new
campus at Pokhara. It would be a c:ondition of effectiveness that the UNDP and
USAID grant documents had been duly executed (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of the
DCA). Six research scientists for a period of three years each, and a consult-
ant in stove technology, to providet advice and guidance on stove design and to
assess the appropriateness of the technology being proposed, would also be
provided.
43.        Consultant services would also be provided under the project to
prepare feasibility studies on the provision of fuelwood to urban areas from
nearby woodlots and on the possibility of exploiting the currently inaccessi-
ble high altitude forests. Basic data for the urban fuelwood study would be
collected by December 31, 1980; terms of reference for the study satisfactory
to the Association, would be prepared by June 30, 1981, with the study team,



- 15 -
acceptable to the Association, to be selected by December 31, 1981 (Section
3.06(a) of the DCA). Terms of reference and the composition of the study team
to carry out the high altitude forest study satisfactory to the Association,
would be completed by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.06(b) of the DCA).
Forestry Research
44.      The project would provide for the strengthening of research services
within CFAD by establishing a nationwide series of provenance trials. With-
in the Forest Survey and Research Office of the Forest Department, applied
forestry research would be conducted on high priority problems affecting
forest production, through field stations established in a transect of Nepal
in a climatic area contrasting with that in which field stations are being
established under assistance from the United Kingdom. To assure adequate
coordination of research and liaison between scientists, a national forestry
research plan would be prepared by the Ministry of Forest and furnished to the
Association by July 15, 1981 (Section 3.08 of the DCA)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
45.       While it is generally understood that wood plays a major role in
the life of the Hill residents, there is a lack of valid information on the
extent of this role, e.g., the time involved, the mechanism for distribution
of fuelwood and fodder within villages, the amount of wood used for non-fuel
purposes. The MEU would undertake to provide this basic background analysis,
as well as to monitor the impact of the project. The socioeconomic expert
provided under UNDP/FAO program would assist the head of this unit for three
years. The MEU would carry out a survey of the role of wood in the life of
Hill residents, assess the techniques for introduction of the community
forestry programs and improved stoves, assist the motivation and publicity
unit to plan its materials and campaigns, and with the assistance of consul-
tants, monitor and assess the progress of the project. This unit would also
be responsible for preparation of project progress reports and the project
completion reports for the community forestry component; Tribhuvan University
would be responsible for the preparation of project progress and project
completion reports on the formal training component. Progress reports would
be prepared semi-annually. The project completion report would be prepared no
later than six months after the closing date (Section 3.04(d) of the DCA).
46.       As this project would be the first phase of a long-term program
and adopts an innovative approach for Nepal, provision has been made for a
midterm review. This midterm evaluation would also be the basis for the
design of subsequent projects in community forestry. Terms of reference for
this evaluation and the composition of the review team would be agreed with
the Association by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.04(c) of the DCA).
Cost and Financing
47.       The total cost is estimated at US$24.8 million equivalent, including
contingencies and a negligible amount of taxes and duties. As there is very
little infrastructure in Nepal for community forestry development, the estab-
lishment of the project administration and the training program represent



- 16 -
about 24% and 18% of total project costs respectively, with capital cost rep-
resenting over 30% of project administration costs and over 60% of training
costs. Costs of establishing the village forests represent about 18% of
total project cost. The cost estimates are updated to December 1979 prices
and include physical contingencies of 10% for construction costs of buildings,
nursery and forest plantations, building maintenance, and stove construction.
Price contingencies have been calculated assuming international and domestic
price escalations of 10.5%, 9%, and 8% per annum for 1980, 1981, and 1982
respectively and 7% thereafter. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at
US$9.7 million or about 39% of total project cost. The proposed IDA Credit
would cover all the foreign exchange cost (excluding the financing for tech-
nical assistance training expected to be provided by UNDP and USAID) and about
US$12.7 million equivalent of local costs, amounting to 69% of total project
cost. UNDP would provide about US$2.84 million equivalent and USAID would
provide at least US$3.27 million equivalent on a grant basis. The Government
would contribute about US$1.7 million equivalent. The cost of individual
consultant's services (except the two consultants for the inservice training
wing) was calculated based on the UNDP scales of about US$65,000 per man-year,
including benefits, overheads, and other associated costs.
48.       As the villagers would harvest forest products for their own use under
communal arrangements, there would be no cash income and, therefore, no cost
recovery is proposed. After the completion of the project, the Government
would assume responsibility for all staff salaries and running costs, which
would represent an increase in Ministry of Forest annual expenditure of about
18% over FY1978/1979 levels. As expenditures for the Ministry of Forest
represent about 5% of the Government's annual outlay, it should be well within
the capacity of the Government to sustain the project after the five year
implementation period.
49.      In order to ensure an early start to the project, retroactive financ-
ing of about US$0.8 million equivalent is recommended for expenditures
incurred after October 1, 1979 for provision of planting material, land
preparation, plantation protection, and initial training associated with the
1980 planting season.
Procurement
50.       Equipment and vehicles amounting to about US$1,000,000 equivalent 1/
would be purchased under the project. Procurement involving contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent would be on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines; orders of less than US$100,000
equivalent would be purchased under Government local tender procedures which
are satisfactory to the Association. It is expected that the majority of
these contracts would be for less than US$100,000 equivalent and, therefore,
procured under local procedures.  Because of the remoteness of the villages
in the project area and the small size of individual schemes, it would not be
1/   Net of price contingencies.



- 17 -
practical to group most of the civil works contracts (US$4.45 million equiv-
alent 1/) for ICB or, in some cases, even local competitive bidding. Conse-
quently, these works would be undertaken by the Ministry of Forest, using
local labor or by local contractors in accordance with established Government
procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. Civil works contracts
for the construction of some of the buildings at the new training facilities
at Pokhara and at Hetaura (about US$1,000,000 out of a total of about about
US$2,000,000 million equivalent 1/) would be subject to ICB.
Disbursement
51.       Disbursement of funds would be on the following basis:  (i) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures for civil works by foreign
contractors; (ii) 85% of local expenditures for civil works carried out either
by local contractors or by force account; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported equipment, furniture, and vehicles, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured goods and 75% of local
expenditure for other goods procured locally; (iv) 100% of total expenditures
for training; (v) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services; and
(vi) 85% of local expenditures for salaries and project allowances of staff
engaged in the project and for project operating costs. Disbursement against
civil works carried out by force account or by local contracts costing US$5,000
equivalent or less and against (vi) above would be made against statements of
expenditure. The documentation for such expenditures would be retained by the
Government and made available for inspection by IDA representatives during the
course of project supervision. Requests for disbursements against other items
would be fully documented.
52.       The Government would cause the Ministry of Forest and the Tribhuvan
University to establish and maintain separate accounts for the project in
accordance with sound accounting practices and would ensure that these
accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA and furnished to the Association not later than twelve months after the
end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.01(a) and (c) of the DCA). The audit
report would be required to include a statement that funds disbursed against
statements of expenditure had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided. The documents evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested on the basis of statement of expenditure would be re-
tained until one year after the closing date (Section 4.01(b) of the DCA).
Production
53.       The main products from forests established under the project would
be fuelwood and fodder. All the output is assumed to be consumed by the
beneficiaries; there is no marketing mechanism for fuelwood and fodder in
the Hills. Annual yields per ha would be increased significantly over present
levels, and would, over the course of the project, regenerate forest resources
which would otherwise simply disappear. Annual fuelwood production from the
PPF would begin increasing from about the second year of planting, and from the
1/   Net of price contingencies.



- 18 -
PF from about year 14 of the project. Production from the plantings financed
under the project would reach a pealc in year 20 of the project when the
timber from the PF is clear-felled; total fuelwood production in that year is
estimated to be 980,000 cubic meters, or about one-third of the total fuelwood
requirements of the population of the 340 panchayats under the project. The
annual sustainable yield from the PPF and private plantings would be about
190,000. cubic meters, an amount sufficient for the annual fuelwood requirements
of about 10% of the project area population. Forest fodder production would
increase from 47,000 tons annually (mainly grass fodder) to about 330,000
tons annually from leaf fodder by year 13. Production of both fuelwood and
fodder could be substantially increased if advantage is taken of the infra-
structure provided under the project: and utilized to increase the area under
PF and PPF schemes.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The main benefit of the project would be the increased production
of fuelwood and fodder to help meet the needs of about 290,000 families
living in the 340 panchayats participating in the project. Some of the
project plantings would be directed at rehabilitating gullies caused by water
erosion and establishing forests on hilltops above agricultural terraces.
These forests would help prevent future erosion, and, as the forest canopy
develops, improved ground cover would reduce runoff, and thus help ensure
village water supplies from mountain streams. Increases in the production of
fuelwood and fodder would reduce the rate at which cow dung and agricultural
wastes would be diverted to fuel from their present use as fertilizer. At
the peak year, the project would help prevent the loss of 156,000 tons of
maize production, equivalent to one-third the maize production in the Hills.
In addition, milk and meat production would be increased by the greater
abundance and better quality fodder made available. Over the five year
project period, development of nurseries, seed collection, tree planting and
maintenance and construction works would provide about 2.6 million mandays of
employment. The introduction of 15,000 improved stoves would result in
savings of about 25,000 tons of fuelwood annually, equivalent to the annual
requirements of 4,000 households.
55.       Discounting the economic costs and the quantifiable benefits over
a 30 year period, the economic rate of return for the project is estimated
at about 16%. The costs of research, improved stoves, the midterm review
and feasibility studies and the minor benefits accruing from fruit, medicinal
plants, and wood for construction have been excluded from the analysis.
In the absence of market prices for fuelwood and fodder, benefits have been
calculated on the basis of avoided losses to maize production and increases
in milk production. Sensitivity analysis shows that fuelwood yield would
have to be reduced by a third, or investment costs in the CFAD structure or
project plantings increase by roughly 11.5%-150% before the project would
become economically non-viable.
56.       The basic technology for reforestation and management is available
and simple to apply. As the project aims to foster community involvement in
reforestation programs with the initiative to participate coming from village
panchayats, there is a risk that the number of village panchayats willing to



- 19 -
participate may not reach targets set and that the rate of induction may be
discontinuous and uneven. The project is designed to minimize the risks of
inadequate community participation through the work of the monitoring and
evaluation and the motivation and publicity units, as well as the retraining
and upgrading of forestry staff in a methodology for successful imnlementa-
tion of such programs. The project also provides for a midterm review to
evaluate the program and recommend subsequent adjustments if needed. There
is also the risk that the benefits may accrue unfairly to the more socially
and economically powerful members of the village panchayat. To reduce this
risk, each panchayat and the CFAD would enter into a contract outlining the
_4         responsibilities of both parties, including adoption of a forest management
plan which would include rules for the distribution of forest products. As
the free distribution of seedlings and seed for the project plantings may
lead to excessive waste, the monitoring and evaluation unit would monitor
seedling and seed distribution, planting and survival rates and study the
effects of free distribution. The merits of this system would be a subject
of the midterm review.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that: (i) the UNDP
grant documents for technical assistance and support for the CFAD central
office and field programs have been duly executed (para 42) and (ii) the USAID
grant documents for technical assistance and support for inservice and formal
training have been duly executed (para 42).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 2, 1980



- 20 -                                 Annex 1
SASE 3A                                Page  1 of  5 pages
NEPJL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DAT  SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (SED ARAGES
LAND) AREA (THOUSAND SQ. N.) I                JL                         - MOST RECENT           MLIMTE 
TOTAL           140 .                                                SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGH
AMICULTURAL      40.2                              MOST RECENT     GECORAIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  Ab   1970 lb ESTIMAE tb A    SEGION     GROUP j    GROUP 
CNP PEt CAPITA CUSS                 40.0        60.0    120.0           191.1     209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSU)PTION PER CAPIST
(IfoGRAS OF COAL EC SVALDIT)       5.0        15.0     11.0            69.1      83.9       262.1
POPUATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, K-YAR (MflLONS)        9.3        11.4     13.3
UBAN POPMLATION (PERCMNT 0I TOTAL) 3.1         3.9      4.3-           13.2      16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TAR 2000 (MLLIONS)                     23.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MIIONS)                       51.0
TEA  STATIONARY POPULATION IS  EAE                  2160
POPULATION DENSIT
PER SQ. EN.                     66.0        81.0     94.0            86.6      49.4        45.3
PER SQ. Of. AGRICULTUAL LAD    243.0       286.0    331.0           330.2     252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       41.3        42.0     42.0            44.3      43.1        45.2
15-64 YES.                       56.0        55.0     55.0            5Z.4      53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AD ABOVE                  2.7         3.0      3.0             3.1       3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROVWT RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            1.1         2.0      2.2             2.4       2.4         2.7
DELBAN                           6.5         4.3      4.4             4.1       4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PU THOUsAND)    46.0        45.0     45.0            44.4      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATeL RATE (PUR THOUSAND)    29.0      23.0     19.0            16.4      15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.0         3.0      3.2             3.2       2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNIG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..        37.4    138.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WM)   ..           0.7     17.0             7.9      12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PUR CAPITA (1969-71-100)       110.7       102.0     90.0            99.4      98.2        99.6
PUr CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REUIRMENTS)                   92.0        94.0     95.0            93.0      93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER. DAY)       51.0        52.0     50.0            56.1      52.1        54.3
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      9.0        11.0      9.2            10.4       13.6       17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MOsTALITY RATE    35.0       27.0     23.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIR  (YEARS)   37.0        42.0     45.0            49.1      49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TMOUSAND)                           ..       L52.0/h     ..             ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              .         2.0      9.0            31.5      26.3        34.4
URBAN                             ..        53.0     81.0            63.9      38.5        57.9
RURAL                             ..          ..      5.0            20.1      15.6        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              .         1.0      1.0            15.7      16.0        40.8
DRSAN                              .        14.0     14.0            66.8      65.1        71.3
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..             2.5       3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       72000.0    497:70.0kf 38650.OLf       7107.9   11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSrNG PERSON       ..    68320.0/f 52770.0jL       12064.0    5552.4      15Z2.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         8130.0      6750.0   6630.0          2738.4    1417.1       726.5
UtSAN                             ..          ..       ..              ..     197.3       272.7
RURAL                             ..          ..       .               ..    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          .          .        .                       24.8        27.5
LOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..         5.5 .5                   ..        5.3         5.4
URBAN                            5.4          ..       ..              .        4.9         5.1
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..              ..       5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..
UMAN                             2.0         ..        ..
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..
ACCESS TO ELEC7RICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..       ..             ..       22.5        28.1
L'SAN                           30.2         ..       ..             ..       17.8           1
RURAL                              ..         ..       ..             ..         ..9



Annex 1
Page 2 of 5 pa p.
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROIPS (ADJUSTED V1ERAGES
NEPAL                 ~~~~~- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-4
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGC
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPIIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP 1d    GROUP e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRtMARY:     TUAL                  9.0        26.0      60.0            59.5       63.3         82.7
MALE                 16.0        44.0      95.0            74.9        79.1        87.3
FEMAIZ                1.0         8.0      25.0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  6.0         9.0      12.0            19.5        16.7        21.4
MALE                 11.0        15.0      20.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
?EKALZ                2.0         3.0       4.0            10.0        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   0.2         6.0      22.0/i            1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0        22.0      31.0            42.2       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         32.0        21.0      28.0              ..       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        9.OLI      14.0      19.2            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.2         0.4        ..             2.3        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0         5.0       6.0            15.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPtLATION                          ..          ..        ..              ..        2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.8         2.0       8.0             6.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANC  PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              ..         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
STAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    4300.0        4853.0    6336.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.3        40.3      40.0            21.4       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             94.6        93.9      93.0            66.3       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.0         2.1       2.0             9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               50.0        48.7      48.3            35.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                59.8        58.3      58.1            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              40.2        39.2      38.5            15.7        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9         1.1       0.9             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..              ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      85.0            86.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      40.0            74.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       91. 9       179. 7
RURAL                               ..          ..      37.0            50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      55.0            44.3       44.1        24.8
RUTRAL                              ..          ..      61.0            52.4       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 aud 196i; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
'Ic   South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  lwer Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
,976);  If  Personnel in government services;  Ig  including midwives and assistant nurses;  /h  1971-73;
1i Upoer secondary (grades S-10) only; /J 1962.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-22                                                    Annex I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFINITIONS 0? SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the moot
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the inidicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group average.s for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
1AND ARiA (thousand sq. Iom)                                                                Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie follow,                                                                                at least one physician.  Establish.ants providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US5) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                      cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, snd 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSLUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       frotm hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of cDal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total., urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  aq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                           Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as.percentages of aid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
.id-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment nay exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary edoca-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training inatructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
ic her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-,                         excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
FPmily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able tc  read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                      Passenger case (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food cosmmodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Cumputed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nDr-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 p,ar-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                         tries and in yeace when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined an                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirenents for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grans                      be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the nosber of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinenas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Econonically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-S years, to children in this age group.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expecta-cy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Tota1, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                     These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       structure of thc population, and iong tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                     Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
IC  an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not sore                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In coral areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, psorest 20 percent, and pooreo-  40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                        of h ousholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GRODPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absolute Poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                      Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                         per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Estimated population below poverty incoe level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per morning person - Population divided by number of                               Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



- 23 -
ANNEX I
'Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GN? P7.R SCAP:'A IN 1977   112$l1o /s
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GRO1UH (7., constant prievs)
US$ Mln.      %                             1965-75
GDP at Market Prices                          1,548      100.0                             2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                       155       10.0
Gross National Saving                            78        5.0
Current Account Balance                     -    3      - 0.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                           124        8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                           201      13.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971-72                                                  Value Added
Value Added                Labor Force /b           Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %           Mn.         %                 US $
Agriculture                                     996       68.0         5.9        93.0                169
Industry                                        132        9.0         0.1         2.0              3,320
Servi.ces                                       337       23.0         0.3         5.0              1,123
Total/Average                     1,465       100.0         6.3       100.0              232.5
GOVRNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
'''Rs. M1n.                     % of GDP
1975/76       1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1976/77
Current Receipts                      1,097.Z       1,302.2       1,559.3       1,688.0          7.5
Current Expenditure                     654.1         '784.1        815.0         991.5          4.5
Current Surplus                         443.1         518.1         744.3         696.5          3.0
Capital Expenditure                   1,224.6       1,486.4       1,792.9       2,049.7          8.6
External Assistance (net)               489.5         538.1         830.7       1,019.3          3.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1975     1976      1977      1978    1979
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                                2,064    2,524    3,223    3,772   4,517
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           286       480       750       966   1,154
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                      569       567       511       869   1,108
Bank Credit to Project Sector                          783       716       864    1,072   1,304
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                     12.5      14.5      18.6
General Price Index (1973/74 = 100)                  116,8    115.9    119.0    132.3   136.8
Annual Percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                   16.8    - 0.7        2.7      11.2     3.5
Bank Credit to Government                            104.3     .67.8      56.3      28.9    19.5
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                    341.1    - 0.4    - 9.9       70.1    27.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         11.5    - 8.6       20.7      24.1    21.6
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a World Development Reports 1978 and 1979.
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
.. not available



- 24 -
ANNE( I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1977/78  a/
1975/76  1976177  1977/78                                                                 US$ ml        %
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                            98.3      93.9      bb.8      Foodstuff & raw naterials                                    71.5       83.0
Imports, c.i.f. b/                           156.3    166.9    209.7        Manufactures                                                 14.7       17.0
Trade Balance                           -58.0    -73.0   -120.9
Total                                                   86.2     100.0
Services, net                                 23.2      39.4      47.6
of which:  Tourism                          17.1      23.0      30.2
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMB3ER 31,1978
'Transfers, net                               27.7      30.8      25.1                                                                 US$ Misn.
of which:  Private Remittances              18.7      21.5      18.3
Indian Excise Refund             7.9       9.3       8.1      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                87.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance                  -8.2    - 2.8    -48.2       Total outstanding & Disbursed                                 87.7
Official Grants                               21.1      18.5      23.9
Official Capital, net                          12.1     16.3      22.7      DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 C/
Private Capital, net                           9.6    -10.3    -10.4
Change in Reserves (- Increase)         -34.6    -21.7       12.0     Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                                   1.4
Gross Reserves (mid July)                    120.3    145.3    135.1
Net Reserves                                 114.9    137.8    126.1
Fuel and Related Materials                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, (February 1980) (Million US$)
Imports of which:  Petroleum                14.3      17.6      17.5                                                                 IBRD       IDA
Exports of which:  Petroleum                  --       --        --
Outstanding & Disbursed                                                55.7
Undisbursed                                                --         145.7
RATE OF EXCh'ANGE
Froum October 1975 tlrough                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                                         201.4
Through October 1975   March 20, 1978                  Since March 20, 1978
US$ 1.00 - NRs 10.56   US$ 1.C0 - MRs 12.5             US$ 1.00 = .NRs 12.00
NR  1.00 - tS$ 0.095   NR  1.00 = US$  0.08            NR  1.00 - IUJ$  0.083
a/  Customs basis.
S/ Payments basis.
c Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable                                                                                                South Asia programs Departe2_-
March 1980



ANNEX II
-25 -                        Page  1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of February 29, 1980) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                     Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower               Purpose               IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                        7.1
373        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  6.0       0.5
397        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5          2.5
470        1974      Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8       3.8
505        1975      Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                  6.0      4.8
600        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           40.8      24.7
617        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development           8.0       6.2
654        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                 9.0       3.6
659        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance        3.0       1.9
704        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage             8.0       7.0
705        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0       3.6
730        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway             17.0      12.6
772        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education         5.7       5.6
799        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5         14.5
812        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                 30.0     29.5
856        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                 14.0      13.9
939        1979      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Rural
Development            11.0      11.0
Total Now held by IDA /b                  201.4
Total Undisbursed                                   145.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of February 29, 1980)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year        Obligor        Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel         Hotel                       2.70   0.43      3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.56   0.43      2.99
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



_ 26 _
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 373 -  Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays in appointing engineering consultants, in field surveys and in
procurement. Civil works in the surface irrigation blocks and construction of
tubewells is almost completed in the groundwater areas. Irrigation operations
started in 1976 from nine tubewells, and in 1977, in the first surface irri-
gation block. The project is expected to be completed shortly. Water charges
are now being levied in areas reached by irrigation, and farmer's acceptance
has been satisfactory.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
mid 1980.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Design work is complete and all major contracts have been let.
Project implementation is over two years behind the original schedule,
primarily due to delays in letting the contracts. A management team provided
by the United Kingdom is assisting the Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. An EEC Special Action Credit was approved
in July 1979, to cover some of the Governments share of the local costs of
the project. During the negotiations for the EEC Special Action Credit, the
implementation schedule and dated covenants were revised, and the closing
date amended to June 30, 1981.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



_27_
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation, though still about two years behind
schedule, has improved slightly over the last months and 1,550 families
have been settled. Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical
assistance is being provided to speed up the operation. Stress has also been
laid on the need for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better
management and planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use
policy, we are discussing with the Government reduction of project area to
be newly settled from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located. These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the apprecia-
tion of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of equipment
and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar cost of
the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover the foreign
exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned
project actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements had been
lagging due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applica-
tions. Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound
and practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported
and understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project
proposals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites
and plans for most district construction projects have been completed and
construction started. Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms
under a credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in
the project area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may
hinder project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more



_ 28
ANNEX II
Page 4
efficient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers
as part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed
UNDP technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator
and the Irrigation Advisor have nearly completed their assignments.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project Manager and consultants, Tahal (Israel), have been
appointed, and the Project Coordinating Committee has been formed. Procure-
ment and drilling of tubewells are in progress. Twenty-seven production
wells have been completed. Civil works for these wells is underway. Recent
supervision missions have discussed ways for expediting procurement with the
Project Authority and the consultants, for ensuring that tubewells can be
energized from local power supplies, and for strengthening the agricultural
staff on the project. Construction of village link roads has started. How-
ever, there is delay in implementation due to the weakness of contractors in
the project area and delay in construction of transmission lines.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Studies for a national agricultural extension project, a silica-
lime brick factory and the proposed grain storage project have been completed,
while studies are in progress for river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irriga-
tion Project and cottage industries. Arrangements for initiating additional
studies are being made.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and feasibility studies,
master plan updating, and final designs have been completed. A tariff spe-
cialist has been recruited, and the first contract for water meters has
been awarded. Evaluation of bids for major contracts is underway. An EEC
Special Action Credit was approvec[ in July 1979 to assist in financing a
portion of the Government's share of the local cost of the project.



29_
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor has completed his assignment and
the accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February
1980. To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA.
Progress in implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of
complementary local currency resources. Accordingly, disbursement have
continued to lag.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is nearly two year behind schedule due
to delays in the award of contracts and the appointment of consultants.
Consultants (financed by CIDA) arrived in March to provide maintenance
technical assistance. The pre-feasibility study for the Bombasa-Kohalpur
Road was completed in July 1978, and a proposal for the Mechanics' Training
Program is under review by the Government and the Association. Seven of ten
contracts have been awarded for the construction of the Tulsipur Road and
three contracts have been awarded for the earthworks on the Thankot-Naubise
Road. Arrangements for consulting services for supervision of construction
have been finalized.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts
have been signed for all civil works packages, except external works, for
which the bids are being evaluated; however, equipment tendering is behind
schedule. The first batch of fellowship students have completed their programs
and a second batch have started their programs. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.0 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The Project Board has been established and the Project Manager,
Senior Agricultural Officer, and consultants have been appointed. Studies
for major canal structural repairs, sediment control and river training are
under way. Contracts for priority works have been awarded and procurement
action for equipment and civil works for Chatra Main Canal is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent was approved
in June 1979 to help finance a portion of the Government's share of the
local cost.
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The contract for project consultants under Stage I (Nippon Koei)
has been extended to cover Stage II. Contracts for surface irrigation blocks
have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining civil works and for equipment
is being initiated. Satisfactory progress is being made.
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project would help develop the three Hill districts of Dandelhura,
Baitadi, and Darchula and aims to raise agricultural production to levels
whereby farmers could meet full family subsistence. The project would provide
for increased agricultural and livestock production through minor irrigation
development, strengthening of agricultural extension and animal health services,
training, and improved availability of farm inputs. These directly productive
investments would be complemented by investments in erosion control, health
care, village water supplies, lower and upper secondary education, postal
services, panchayat facilities, and trails and foot-bridges. The project also
provides for a study of cottage industry potential and prospects, as well as
for facilities and staff required for project implementation. The Project
Coordinator has been named.



_ 31 _
ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
12 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Forest, with the assistance of
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
November 1977
May 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 10, 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 14, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
August 1980
Section II    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



_32 _
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III    Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness
(a) the UNDP and IJSAID grant documents for technical
assistance and support have been duly executed
(para 42).
Other Conditions
(a) outlines of work programs for the monitoring and
evaluation unit, motivation and publicity unit,
and stove improvement unit would be prepared
and furnished to the Association by December 31,
1980 (para 36);
(b)  a national forestry research plan would be pre-
pared and furnished to the Association by July 15,
1981 for review and comment (para 44); and
(c) membership and terms of reference for a midterm
review of progress of the project would be agreed
with the Association by December 31, 1981 (para 46).



IBRD 14534
SEPTEMBER 1979
NEPAL
p.j-rt mq,i~g C/ )-                                                                                                                                                        COMMUNITY  FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
F'o,r,try D-D [,lment and \y       ' .4   '}    -       
TriIgProject sup port  /x<'       7  / /Xd ' \\                                                                                                                                                                  AND
T'm, g j-              > X                                                              '5 ,  '                                                                                             TRAINING PROJECT
A t    ii  7  Mogo _DT                                                                             GROUP          *
7        ONGOING FORESTRY  PROJECTS
H m  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>FOREST DIV SlON BOUNDARIES
( | * 4 tic gddwrileo               \/ '  -  4.                                                     RE                                  SOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT IUSAID) FOREST DVSON HEADOJARTERS
//  /4/   _//k                                5.\t~t  TINA.KOLA WATERSHED PROoECT ISATA GE      I                                                                                      *DSTRICT  HEADQUARTERS
EIp.                                                                                                          DI STRICT  BOONSARiES
Mo cog                                                                 -            INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES
<C.   Rokose  -.  LB                       ¼..... ~~~~~~~~~~~j                                           TEREAI
`    OHU-AGII R I`diivalprojEotsor  od-tted by
jf T 5                                                 oglo               q             YANGDI1     4
70°    5       ~    ~     ~    '''           ~                   /""  0~%22~t                                                              5     20    40    60 _0
0   o.,usnrro,,h,Wr'Ot.,...rar'nd,.r,r,rror  0                          5   *9~~~~~1~~     U       To~yhu             <"      N  U                         'G     -k           r
N eves rOrrroor,reorrrvrrrrorrre  'k'1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOETR
80.  910. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~8                                                                                               LKUB
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I     '        C       H 5I  N    A
'PAKISTAN  /HU N                                                                                                                                                                             up .H
'~~r..-4.  ~~7                             ONGOING  FORESTRY PROJECTS                                                                                                                         hor l'<I 
INDIA                  11EIR.                  r  MAHAIKAoLI PILLS EURRAL DEVEOLPMERT (IDA) PoIlty5 UPros  Pr--rr Pro-)I 
2       2   KARNAOI,IBHFRI  NTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT (CILIA)                                                                                                           -------- ----- oto     '        j -cr<
8oy o/Revoeoi  I5T4.  RESOURCE CONSERVATION PROJECT 1501USAoIDj                                                                                                    ' & iit 2'S 2                          
S.  7 NA KOLA WATERSHED PROJECT ISATA-GERMANrY)                                                    ~.>                                                                                      bnrgro
ArcS/cr                      6                    0.~~~~~~~~~6  RASUWA-NUWAKOT INTEGRATED R00AL DEVELOPMEN'T PROJECT OIUA)                                                    a                                                  i soo
Sep  E                                                0~~~~~~6    CRAUTARA DIVISION FORESTRY PROJECT (AOSTRALIrO                                                                 v'%n.:jr                                       
roe                              t?                0~~~~~~~~~~~~ LAMASANGS  JIRI FROJEET ISATAI/                                                                                                  A                            "t*p.
S  OSAGRMATH,A RURAL DEVELOPMENT (ASIAN DEVELOPMENT RANK
jSONKA                                    10  KOSl DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (U.K.,
Ton                                     R



