Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2663a-NEP
NEPAL
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT
AND TRAINING PROJECT
March 25, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            Nepalese Rupee (NR) 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAd YEAR
July 16 - July 13
ABBREVIATIONS
AO              Attached Officer
CCF            Chief Conservator of Forests
CDO       =    Chief District Officer
CF             Cofimmunity Forester
CFAD           Community Forestry and Afiorestation Division
CFU            Community Forestry Unit
DAP             District Administration Plan
DFO             Divisional Forestry Officer
FD             Forest Department
HMG            His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB      i= nternational Competitive Bidding
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
MEU            Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MFTW            Ministry of Forest Training Wing
MOF            Ministry of Forest
MOHP            Ministry of Home Panchayats
MPU            Motivation and Publicity Unit
PDO             Panchayat Development Officer
PF             Panchayat Forest
PFF       =    Panchayat Forest Foreman
PFW       =    Panchayat Forest Watchers
PP        =    Private Planting
PPF       =    Panchayat Protected Forest
SIU       =    Stove Improvement Unit
SLC       =    School .Leaving CertificatE
SWC            Soil and Water Conservation
TCN            Timber Corporation of Nepal
TOR            Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND          ......................        .......................         I
A.    Introduction  ......................................                       1
B.    Project Background  ................................                       1
The Panchayat  System  ..............................                     2
C.    Forestry  in Nepal  .................................                      4
Environmental  Conditions  and Forest Types  ....                .....    4
Present Consumption of Fuelwood, Fodder and
Other Forest Products  ...........................                      5
Problems  of Soil Erosion  ..........................                     6
Exploitation of Forest Resources  ....                   ..............    7
Contribution of Forests  to the Economy  ....                 ........    7
Forest Land Ownership  .............................                      8
Forestry Institutions  .............................                      9
Forestry Training  .................................    10
Forestry Projects  .................................    10
Policy  for Forestry Development  ...................    11
II.    THE PROJECT  ............................................    11
A.    General  ...........................................    11
Community Forestry Development  ....................    11
Forestry Training  .................................    12
General Description  ...............................    12
Project Area - Community Forestry Development    .....    14
Community Forestry Development  ....................    16
B.    Detailed Features  .................................    16
Panchayat Forest  ..................................    16
Panchayat Protected Forest  ........................    17
Tree Planting on Private Land  .....................    18
Improved Stoves  ...................................    18
Forestry Research  .................................    18
Project Implementation - Community Forestry
Development  .....................................    19
Operating Procedures  ..............................    20
Forestry Training  .................................    21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
Technical Assistance ..............................   24
Midterm Review and Feasibility Studies ....           ........   25
III.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING ............................   26
A.    Cost Estimates .....................................   26
B.    Financing ..........................................   28
C.   Procurement and Disbursement ...              ...................   28
D.   Accounts and Audits ...............................   29
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................   30
Community Forestry Unit (CFU) .....................   30
Seed Stores .......................................   31
Forestry Research .................................   32
Motivation and Publicity Unit (EPU) ....            ...........   32
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU) ....            ..........   32
The Stove Improvment Unit (SIU) ....            ...............   33
Administration and Logistics Section ....            ..........   34
Project Coordination ..............................   34
Inservice Training ................................   35
V.   PRODIJCTION AND MARKETING, COST RECOVERY AND IMPACT OF
PROJECT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET ..........................    35
Yields and Production .............................   35
Markets and Prices ................................   36
Distribution of Produce between Villagers ... ......   36
Cost Recovery             .....................................   37
Project Impact on HMG Budget ......................   37
VI.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ......................   38
Benefits ............       ..............................   38
Economic Analysis and Rates of Return ....           .........   39
Sensitivity Analysis .           .............................   40
Project Risks .........         ............................   40
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .. ...                         41
LIST OF ANNEXES
1    Community Forestry Development:   Production of Forest Products
from PF, PPF and PP
Table 1: Natural Grass and Fuelwood Production - Panchayat Forest
Table 2: Leaf Fodder and Fuelwood Production - Private Planting
Table 3: Leaf Fodder and Fuelwood Production - Panchayat Protected Forest



- iii -
2    Procurement and Disbursement
3    Economic Analysis
Table 1: Incremental Production of Leaf Fodder, Grass Fodder and Fuelwood
Table 2: Dt:--ivation of Economic Price of Fuelwood
Table 3: Economic Price of Maize
Table 4: Derivation of Economic Price of Leaf Fodder and Grass Fodder
Table 5: Economic Costs and Benefit Streams
4    Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
5    Implementation Schedule
6    Ten Year Manpower Requirement Predictions -
Diploma and Certificate Levels - MOF
7    Project Costs and Charts
Table 1:   Summary Project Costs
Table 2:   Community Forestry Development:  Project Organization, Staff
and Other Operating Costs
Table 3:   Community Forestry Development:  Investment Costs - CFAPD
Divisional Field Offices and Research Components
Table 4:   Community Forestry Development:  Village Forestry Program
Nursery Overhead Costs
Table 5:   Community Forestry Development:  Nursery and Forestry
Development Costs
Table 6:   Community Forestry Development:  Improved Stoves - Investment
and Operating Costs
Table 7:   Community Forestry Training:  Staff and Other Operating
Costs
Table 8:   Community Forestry Training:  Buildings, Housing, Vehiples
and Equipment Costs
Table 9:   Community Forestry Training:  Training Costs
Table 10: Technical Assistance Costs
Chart 20617 - Proposed Organizational Structure of Ministry of
Forest
Chart 20618 - Proposed Organization Chart of Community Forestry
and Afforestation Division of Ministry Of Forest
8    List of Material Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD 14534 - General Map of Forest Divisions and Project Area






NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      Ever growing population, mountainous terrain, limited irrigation,
increasing cultivation of steep landslide-prone hillsides, over-grazing of
pasture lands and defoliation (for livestock fodder) and destruction of
forests, all contribute to declining standards of living for the residents
of the Hill and Mountain region of Nepal.
1.02      To remedy this deteriorating situation, His Majesty's Government
of Nepal (HMG), IDA, and several bilateral agencies 1/ are now assisting in
the development of a number of Hill districts. As part of the strategy to
improve the quality of life in these areas, HMG, jointly with the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program, produced a report entitled "Nepal Community Forestry
Development Project" in April 1979. This report became the basis of an
application for IDA assistance in the implementation of a project for devel-
opment of forestry in the Hills, covering those parts of the country not
already included in ongoing rural development projects.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
which visited Nepal in May/June 1979, comprising A.J. Pritchard, H. Kim
(IDA); W.J. Ellis (forestry consultant); R. Noronha (sociology consultant);
P.J. Wood (forestry training consultant), and I. Evans (stove technology
consultant).
B. Project Background
1.04      Nepal is landlocked between China and India.  It can be divided
into three parallel ecological zones running east-west. The Terai Plain,
an extension of the Gangetic Plain of India; the Hills, actually the foot-
hills of the Himalayas, and ranging from 500 m to 4,000 m in height; and
the Himalayan Mountains to the north. These three zones account for 17%,
68% and 15% of the total area (140,797 sq km), respectively. Rivers and
streams running north-south cut the Hills into isolated areas, with varying
microclimatic conditions providing a range of environments for plant growth
depending on aspect, cloud cover, slope, etc.
1.05      Nepal is one of the world's least developed countries, with current
annual per capita income estimated at US$110-120, but it can be as low as
US$24 in the Hills. GDP growth during the last decade has averaged about
2.4% annually.
1/   USAID, ODA, SATA, Australia Aid, CIDA, ADB.



- 2 -
1.06      Nepal's population is estimated at 13.5 M and is currently increas-
ing at 2.2% annually. About 65% of the population live in the Mountains and
Hills where thle density is now 24 and 103 persons per sq km, respectively.
However, when related to the area under cultivation in these zones, the popula-
tion density has reached an alarming 1,500 per sq km of arable land.  In com-
parison, the figure for the Terai, which has two-thirds of the country's
cultivable area, is 565 per sq km of arable land. Population pressure and the
lack of employment possibilities in the Hills forces 10 to 50% of male family
members to migrate, either seasonally or permanently, to the Terai, Kathmandu
or elsewhere in order to find employment and supplement incomes.
1.07      Agriculture is the main source of livelihood for 95% of the popu-
lation. Paddy, wheat, maize and millet are the major crops, forming 80-90%
of the Nepalese diet. Cash crops (tobacco, oilseeds, jute and sugarcane)
are grown on less than 10% of the total croppe!d area and are mostly confined
to the Terai. Livestock play an important role in the way of life of rural
Nepal and animal products form an integral part of the subsistence diet.  The
most serious constraint on livestock production is scarcity of adequate feed.
1.08      Differences in income and economic status among Hill villagers are
not great 1/, but this egalitarianism is the result of low economic develop-
ment and widespread sharing of poverty. Ethnic differences and social status
are usually expressed through geographic distribution in which the Hindu and
Hinduized groups live at lower altitudes and in the valleys; the more tribal-
ized groups live at higher altitudes. Generally, villages are neither
ethnically nor linguistically homogenous (only 52% of the population are
native speakers of Nepali).
1.09      Most Hill areas are without road access and can only be entered
by foot trails. Villages and settlements are dispersed, and administrative
services are irregular at best and largely nor.-existent.
The Panchayat System
1.10      Administratively, Nepal is divided into four Development Regions.
Each comprises a section of the country, running north to south, containing
Mountain, Hill and Terai districts. Each Development Region is subdivided
into Development Zones, varying from 3 to 5 irL number, which are further
divided into Districts.
1.11      The panchayat system, which encompasses the political and develop-
ment organizations, has three tiers. The loweLst political level is the
village panchayat or, for areas with a population of 10,000 and more, a town
panchayat. The next level is the district parnchayat. The highest level
is the national panchayat whose 125 members are either elected by members of
the district panchayat or appointed by His Majesty the King. The village
panchayat is generally comprised of nine wards, each containing about two
villages, which are the smallest socioeconomic units. The average area of
1/   On the basis of a limited survey, the Gini coefficients were estimated
at 0.43 for the Hills and 0.51 for the Terai.



- 3 -
a Hill panchayat has been estimated at 3,670 ha (see Project File, Item 2),
with a population of 4,300 (about 700 families).
1.12      Present political developments in Nepal indicate the possibility
of a shift from the partyless panchayats system of government to one based
on represet. ation of the people through elected members of political parties.
This change, if it eventuates, is not expected to affect the project signi-
ficantly, since any alteration in the system must continue to recognize the
district as the basic organizational and administrative unit that would be
administered by a body of elected representatives. At village panchayat
level, representation would continue to be through popular elections, the
only change being that representatives would be members of national political
parties.
1.13      The working of the panchayat system and assistance in local devel-
opment are the responsibilities of the Ministry of Home Panchayats (MOHP), and
implemented, at district level, through the District Administration Plan (DAP).
1.14      District Administration.  The Chief District Officer (CDO) is the
administrative head of all government functionaries of line ministries operat-
ing at the district level, which are merged into a District Secretariat, which
also functions as the Secretariat to the district panchayat. DAP defines two
areas of responsibility of the CDO as maintenance of law and order and dis-
trict development. Execution of the latter function is entrusted to a
Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) under the CDO's supervision.
1.15      Line ministries retain technical supervision of staff at district
level while delegating administrative and financial responsibility to CDO
for preparation and implementation of district development plans. Popular
participation in development is established through a number of coordination
committees, chaired by the district panchayat chairman and comprising CDO,
and representatives of line ministries, as non-voting members, and individuals
chosen by district panchayats from among their elected body as operational
members. The District Secretariat is responsible for implementation of
approved projects. Guidelines for "Integrated Panchayat Development," which
consider the village panchayat as the basic level for planning and plan
implementation, have been recently approved by HMG.
1.16      Village panchayat programs are initiated at village meetings and
submitted to the district panchayat for technical clearance and financial
assistance. Each year a district development plan is prepared, comprising
all the activities in the district other than those of zonal or national
scope. Village panchayat plans, which specify priorities, estimated costs and
the contribution the panchayat can make (including labor and materials) are
consolidated by the district panchayat into the district plan. The district
panchayat also assigns priorities to projects to be undertaken. Government
line officers then examine proposals from the district panchayat, assess
their technical feasibility, and relate proposals to the executive capacity
of the line department and to funds and other resources available. After
further discussions, the final district plan, approved by the district



-4 -
assembly, is submitted to MOHP for its approval and release of funds.  A
recent innovation requires that district plans be sent to the Zonal Commis-
sioner for his comment and scrutiny before they are submitted to MOHP.
1.17      Village panchayat projects are implemented through local implement-
ation committees composed of village panchayat chairmen, district assembly
members and voLuntary workers. Technical supervision is provided by district
panchayat staff and line department personnel. MOHP provides a multi-purpose
development worker to each village panchayat who also acts as secretary of
the panchayat. Such workers not only serve as a liaison between the district
administration and village panchayats, but also provide administrative support,
especially in respect of record keeping and accounting.
1.18      The position of the Ministry of Forest (MOF) in the panchayat system
is somewhat anomalous. Forest Divisions are larger than administrative dis-
tricts and the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) may have responsibilities for
more than one district.  At present, DFO attend district panchayat meetings
only rarely and are represented by more junior Foresters or Rangers, lacking
the authority to influence decisions.  The result has been that forestry has
rarely featureid in district plans.
1.19      Experience in implementing the Rural Development project in Rasuwa/
Nuwakot (Cr. 617-NEP) has shown that the panchayat system works efficiently
with adequate technical assistance.
C. Forestry in Nepal
1.20      The present forest area of Nepal is about 4.5 M ha (2.8 M ha in the
Hills and Mountains and 1.7 M ha in the Terai). These figures represent a
reduction of 25% in forest area over the past cLecade. The situation is, how-
ever, worse than figures suggest because many areas of the Hills, now classi-
fied as forest, are in fact degraded waste lancl with few or no standing trees.
Projections show that, with present usage and increased demand from a growing
population, accessible forests in the Hills will disappear within 14 years
and those in the Terai within 25 years. 1/
Environmental Conditions and Forest Types
1.21      Variability of the climate and its interaction with soil fertility
and physical features determine vegetation types and these are described in
Project File, Item 1. Briefly, the major climatic influences are: the south-
east monsoon which brings heavy precipitation from May to October, varying
from a maximum of 3,500 mm in the east of the country to a minimum of 250 mm
in the west (average annual rainfall is 1,516 mm); pre-monsoon droughts in the
west; and temperature gradients resulting from increases in altitude over
short horizontal distances. Only the Terai has a humid subtropical climate.
1/   Nepal Couamunity Forestry Development Project, FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program, 1979, page 7.



- 5 -
1.22      Natural forest types reflect the dissected topography of the country
and the variability of its climate. Forests between an altitude of about
2,600 m and the limit for trees at about 5,000 m, consist mainly of conifers
(fir, spruce, blue pine) with some hardwoods (oak, hemlock). Much of this
forest is over mature. In the Terai (below 300 m), mixed hardwood forests,
mainly of sal and asna, are found which contain almost no su zwood species.
1.23      The forests of the Hills lying between 300 and 2,600 m vary con-
siderably in composition and are scattered in patches throughout the area.
In general, at higher altitudes, fir and oak predominate, gradually giving
way to chir pine, and species of Prunus, Castanopsis, Schima and Alnus at
medium elevations and, ultimately, sal at lower elevations.
Present Consumption of Fuelwood, Fodder and Other Forest Products
1.24      Nationally, fuelwood accounts for 87% of wood consumption and 97% of
that used for non-commercial purposes. 1/ It provides botV heat and light
and the average per capita consumption is estimated at 1 m per year (about
725 kg). Greater demand for cooked food and heating in the Hills, and the
inefficiency of stoves commonly used, explain the larger fuel requirements
of Nep9l as compared to the plains of India (estimated at the equivalent of
0.26 m /person/year. 2/) Alternative sources of energy, such as kerosene,
are too expensive for general use in Nepal.
1.25      In some areas, shortage of fuelwood has forced the rural population
to burn either livestock fodder or animal dung in order to provide for mini-
mum heating and cooking needs. Quantities presently consumed are small
(about 150,000 tons of fodder and 100,000 tons of dried animal manure in
1974/75 3/). The concern is, however, that, if the present rate of forest
destruction continues, somewhere between 1985 and 1995 the burning of live-
stock fodder and manure could rise to 8 M tons annually. Since farmyard
manure is the main crop fertilizer used in the Hills, and assuming an average
dressing of 2 tons/ha of dry dung and a resultant increased yield of 300 kg/ha
of grain, the burning of 8 M tons of dry dung would represent a foregone
annual production of over 1 M tons of foodgrains (25% of current cereal
production). This loss of food would be particularly critical in the Hills.
1.26      In order to meet demands for fuelwood (and industrial wood to supply
the needs of industry), Nepal will require about 1.3 M ha of plantations by
the turn of the century. To provide this, a national reforestation program
1/   Nepal.  The Energy Sector.  Energy Research & Development Group.
Institute of Science, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, Nepal, 1976.
2/   Staff Appraisal Report.  India:  Gujarat Community Forestry, (2601-IN),
1979.
3/   Nepal Forestry Sector Review, (1952-NEP), 1978, page 23.



- 6 -
has been recommended 1/ under which 32,000 ha of village woodlot would be
planted annually in the Hills and 20,000 ha in the Terai over the next twenty
years.
1.27      In rural areas, domestic fuelwood is collected from November to
May by women and children, as sufficient wood must be stocked and dried before
the onset of the monsoon in June. The time spent gathering fuel is now
approximately 60 man days/year/family and varies from 1.5 to 5.0 hours per
day, depending on the distance of the wood source; but this is expected to
increase substantially as forest resources disappear.
1.28      Many of the forest and waste land areas are grazed by domestic
animals and free ranging unproductive cattle, which are protected from culling
by religious beliefs.  Useful animals are tethered at night and are stall fed
with fodder leaves and grass collected in the forests. The Hill areas are now
heavily overstocked. This was clearly demonstrated by a recent sample survey
of panchayats (Project File, Item 2) which showed a stocking rate equivalent
to 77 Stock Un:its 2/ per ha on low quality grass and waste land or 23 per ha
on both grass and forest. The average number of cows and buffalo kept per
family is 4.4 which ideally require access to 50 fodder trees, especially
during the winter months. 3/ Assuming that the farming community can derive
half of its fodder requirements from existing trees, a planting of 25 fodder
trees per famiLy is still required to provide adequate levels of animal
nutrition. This is equivalent to an additional 80,000 ha of plantations in
the Hills and '50,000 ha in the Terai, over and above that required to meet
fuelwood requirements (para 1.26).
1.29      Forests in rural areas provide wood for building and for manufacture
of farm implements and simple tools. The amount required is small in compar-
ison to that needed for fuelwood, amounting to 3% of total non-commercial wood
production.
Problems of Soil Erosion
1.30      The natural erosion process in the Hills is too great to be com-
pletely contained by deliberate intervention. It results from steepness of
the terrain and geological instability of the area, the scouring effects of
ice and glacie-rs, and enormous run off during the monsoon period. The erosion
process, however, is considerably increased by the activities of Hill farmers,
who are largely unaware of conservation practices and cultivate soils on steep
slopes, overstock and overgraze, and destroy fcrests when seeking fuelwood and
1/   Nepal Forestry Sector Review, (1952-NEP), 1978, page 23.
2/   Usually a Stock Unit is equivalent to one ewe, with five ewes equal
to one cow. If, to compensate for small animals in Nepal, one cow is
taken to be the equivalent of 2.5 ewes, the stocking rates are still
high at 35 and 11.5 Stock Units per ha.
3/   Nepal Forestry Sector Review, (1952-NEP), 1978, page 34.



-7 -
fodder. This combination of nature and man results in loss of top soil and
potential agricultural land and causes declining crop production. In addition,
the effects of lowered infiltration of water into the soil, due to increased
runoff has reduced groundwater levels and led both to drying of mountain
springs and to downstream flooding when run off quantities exceed the capacity
of river bec8.
Exploitation of Forest Resources
1.31      Most commercial exploitation of forests is concentrated in the
Terai, where it is carried out by private Indian contractors, the Forest
Products Development Board, and the government-owned Timber Corporation of
Nepal (TCN). These forests support about 50 sawmills and some small factories
which manufacture furniture, plywood and matches. Urban areas, especially
Kathmandu, provide the main markets for sawn timber and fuelwood. In Kathmandu,
a bundle of fuelwood weighing 35 kg is sold for NRs 25 (US$2). Wood is
carried into these centers from surrounding Hill areas, and, in the case of
Kathmandu, also trucked in from the Terai by the government-owned Fuelwood
Corporation.
1.32      The high forests are generally inaccessible and have not been
exploited commercially. They are now being encroached upon by farmers seeking
new land and fodder and there are clear signs of extensive fire damage.
1.33      Exploitation operations in Hill forests are wholly restricted to
the supply of forest products for local requirements (fuel, fodder and house
construction). Except where trees are privately owned and usage regulated by
the owner, local forest areas are plundered; trees and grass being regarded as
"free goods" to which every member of the community is entitled. This contin-
ual lopping and felling has resulted in progressive destruction of state-owned
forests near villages, and, more recently, of those in remoter areas. The net
result is that remnant forests near villages produce a mean annual increment
of growth of only about 85 kg/ha of wood 1/ and villagers obtain the rest of
their needs from surrounding scrub land, crop residues and by illegally
cutting forests nominally under the protection and control of the Forest
Department (FD) staff (paras 1.41 to 1.43). There is increasing evidence
that, where communal woodlots are being threatened by overgrazing, farmers
protect trees sited close to their homesteads, especially when they are pri-
vately owned and the output used for domestic consumption.
Contributions of Forests to the Economy
1.34      In 1976/77, the value of forest output (not including an estimated
NRs 160 M for herbage and tree fodder and the unquantified benefits from free
grazing) was NRs 1,100 M (US$92.0 M), equivalent to about 10% of total agri-
cultural output. The breakdown of this output was as follows:
1/   Nepal.  The Energy Sector.  Energy Research and Development Group
Institute of Science, Tribhuvan University, Kathmandu, Nepal, 1976.



- 8 -
Forest Products (1976/77)
NIRs M
Sawlogs Etnd Plylogs         L88.6
Fuelwood (estimated)         871.1
Medical Hlerbs                 4.3
Nuts and fruit                10.0
1,074.0
SouLrce:  Secretariat, National Planning Commission,
National Accounts Project, Agricultural
Sector of Nepal 1976/77, Kathmandu, 1978.
Forest Land Owniership
1.35      Private forests were nationalized in 1957 with a view to preserving
an important source of national wealth and providing for protection and con-
trolled exploitation by the people. Excluded from the purview of the Act,
were stray trees in cultivated lands, orchards and private forests in the
Hills and Kathraandu Valley up to a maximum of 1.25 ha. Unfortunately, the
Act was misunderstood by the people who believed the State had removed their
right of free access and use of forests. Under these conditions, villagers
rapidly ceased to apply any traditional rules for forest management and
community responsibility for forest protection disappeared. Fuelwood, timber
and fodder were collected indiscriminately and the rate of forest destruction
was significantly accelerated.
1.36      This legislation was followed by the Forest Act of 1961 concerned
mainly with forest administration and covering the description of forests,
their registration and demarcation, and defining forest types; rights and
duties of FD; and offenses and penalties.
1.37      Realizing that the aims of the 1957 Act had been misinterpreted
and in recognition of the need to involve local communities in protection and
regeneration of forests, if wanton destruction were to be prevented, the Act
was amended in 1977, and new categories of fore!sts--panchayat forest (PF),
panchayat protected forest (PPF), religious forests and contract forests were
recognized.  In the Act, PF are distinguished from PPF in that the former
comprise governmental forest lands which have "been rendered waste or contain
only saplings" and which require replanting, while PPF require only protection
and management to ensure adequate forest cover. Products from PPF would be
sold according to prevailing law which requires payment of 60% of income to
HMG and a 40% royalty to the village panchayat.
1.38      To encourage private planting and the development of private
forests, the Act was again amended in September 1978 and the restrictions
on total area of private forests lifted.



Forestry Institutions
1.39      Ministry of Forest.  Responsibility for the forestry sector lies with
the Ministry of Forest (MOF). At present, this includes the following cell
and departments (Chart 20617):
(i) Forest Department: responsible for overall administration
and management of forest on behalf of HMG.
(ii) Soil and Water Conservation: responsible for design and
coordination of conservation practices, and for projects,
including complete watershed development and management.
(iii) Botany and Medicinal Plants: responsible for conservation
and production of material used in traditional medicinal
practices;
(iv) Resettlement: responsible mainly for the identification
of persons for resettlement and selection of resettlement
areas in the Terai;
(v) Planning Cell: responsible for advising the Minister and
Secretary for Forestry on planning and policy matters.
1.40      MOF is also responsible for the activities of a number of semi-
autonomous government corporations dealing with: timber production and sales
(Forest Products Development Board); public sector sawnwood production (Timber
Corporation); management of resettlement projects (Resettlement Company);
supply of fuelwood to Kathmandu (Fuelwood Corporation) and specific develop-
ment projects, such as the Sagarmatha Forest Development Project (Forest
Products Development Board).
1.41      Up to the present, FD has been mainly concerned with licensing
and organizing timber sales and with forest law enforcement. In terms of
the needs of Nepal, its replanting program is insignificant, with only
10,000 ha having been planted over the last 3-4 years, the majority of
which has been in Chautara Division in the Hills.
1.42      The headquarters Divisions and Central Offices of FD include:
(i) Administration and Utilization;
(ii) National Parks and Wildlife: responsible for management of
national parks and protection of flora and fauna;
(iii) Forest Survey and Research: responsible for aerial photo-
graphic interpretation, ground survey, mapping, forest
growth studies, etc.;
(iv) Afforestation: consisting of seed, nurseries and plantation
units and responsible for national afforestation programs.



- 10 -
1.43      The Forest Department is under the direction of the Chief Conserva-
tor of Forests (CCF), who is directly answerable to the Secretary for Forests.
The territorial organization of FD covers the whole country and consists of
nine major subdivisions, known as Circles, further divided into 40 Divisions
and 174 Ranges. Most Forestry Divisions in thie Hills have been created
recently, and basic infrastructure (offices, housing) is either lacking or
rudimentary. The forestry staff is composed of 148 Forest Officers, many of
whom, in addition to basic training at the Indian Forestry School at Dehra
Dun, have post: graduate training overseas. Sone 250 Rangers and 90 Foresters
have been trained at the Nepal Forestry Institute at Hetaura. There are, in
addition, several hundred Forest Guards who receive no formal training.
Forestry Training
1.44      There is no training at the degree or diploma level for professional
Forest Officers in Nepal.  Forest Officers have, in the past, been trained
mainly at the Indian Forestry School, although in recent years it has been
increasingly difficult for non-Indian nationals to gain admission there. The
non-availability of Forest Officers is one of the constraints to forestry
development in Nepal.
1.45      The training of forest technicians at the certificate level is done
at Hetaura in the Inner Terai where a center has been established and admin-
istered by Tribhuvan University. School Leaving Certificate (SLC), normally
obtained after 10 years of school, is required for admission. Foresters are
trained by means of a two-year Certificate course. Forest Rangers were
originally trained by means of an additional one-year Senior Certificate
course available upon successful completion of the Certificate course, but
this has now been dropped and Forest Rangers will, in the future, receive the
necessary training, additional to that given Foresters, through inservice
training programs. In spite of the fact that intake to the Certificate course
has been increased in recent years, the present annual output of about 100
Foresters and Rangers is insufficient for the country's needs. Any expansion
of forestry operations would require an increase in the number of trained
forestry stafif which could not be provided with the limited facilities avail-
able at Hetaura.
1.46      The courses at Hetaura are run by Tribhuvan University, which is
responsible for all post SLC training in Nepal. Present training is oriented
mainly toward commercial forestry production in the Terai, which in the past
was the most important forestry activity in the country. With the increasing
importance of community forestry in the Hills, a reorientation of current
forestry training has become of paramount importance for forestry development
in Nepal.
Forestry Projects
1.47      The Forest Department has a limited program of afforestation under-
taken with its own resources (para 1.41). Community forestry development,
however, is increasingly an important component in a number of aid assisted
projects. Forestry activities are included in the Rural Development Project
(IDA Credit 6]17-NEP) and Lamasangu-Jiri Rural Development Project (financed



- 11 -
by SATA). The Australian-assisted Chautara Division Forestry Project also
includes substantial inputs into reforestation. Forest development is
included in six other projects to be financed under assistance from ODA, SATA,
USAID, CIDA and ADB, covering 27 other districts. The Nepal Settlement
Project (IDA Credit 505-NEP) is concerned with land clearance and logging
operations c-i resettlement in Terai forests.
Policy for Forestry Development
1.48      In the past, the Forest Department, due to lack of local interest
and shortages of staff and funds, has not been in a position to control the
nationalized forests located in the Hills. To prevent further destruction
of these forests, HMG, through the National Forestry Plan (1976) and recent
(1978) alterations to existing Forest Rules, is seeking to reestablish respon-
sibility in local communities for community forestry development and for
forest protection and management and is actively encouraging the establish-
ment of PF and PPF. To ensure maximum impact from forestry operations,
highest priority is being given to the production of fuelwood and fodder.
This will relieve pressure on existing forests and ease the burden of fuelwood
collection. A lower priority is to be allocated to fruit production and other
activities, such as collection and production of forest byproducts, including
medicinal plants.
1.49      No tradition has been developed among villagers in Nepal for affore-
station, forest regeneration or fuelwood conservation, mainly because wood
shortages have only become intense over the last decade. Most panchayats are,
therefore, lacking the necessary background knowledge to enable them to
outline and follow policies for forestry development.
II. THE PROJECT
A. General
2.01      The project would be the first phase of a national forestry program,
the main aims of which would be:
(i)  development of community forestry in the Hills; and
(ii)  establishment of training facilities within Nepal to
satisfy internal needs for qualified forestry and soil
and water conservation personnel, and provide inservice
training.
Community Forestry Development
2.02      Operating within policy guidelines which provide for greater
responsibility for forest management and protection to be allocated to local
communities, the national community forestry program would ultimately involve
all the panchayats in the Hills (1,090), and would be implemented over the



- 12 -
next twenty years. The project would be the first phase of this program,
during which 340 panchayats, scattered throughDut the Hill districts of Nepal,
would participate in afforestation and forest maintenance activities.
2.03      The principal objective of the community forestry aspect of the
project would be to increase supplies of fuelwood in Hill areas through
establishment of new plantations and rehabilitation of areas of degraded
forest. This would require a reorganization and strengthening of FD and the
provision of supporting services and training facilities to enable it to
respond to the needs of the program. Secondary objectives would be to provide
fodder, grass, and wood for the manufacture of agricultural implements and
house construction. As a fuelwood conservation measure, the project would
introduce and popularize improved cooking stoves.
Forestry Training
2.04      New and improved training facilities provided under the project
would enable Nepal to meet future trained manpower needs of the forestry
sector from institutions developed within the country. Expanded inservice
training facilities would enable existing staff, presently concerned with
commercial timber extraction and forest law enforcement, to be retrained
in the skills of community forestry.
General Description
2.05      During a five-year period, the project would:
(1)  Commmunity Forestry Development
(a) provide funds for staff, equipment, horses, vehicles,
operating expenses and nurseries at the Forest Divi-
sion and village panchayat levels to:
(i) establish about 11,750 ha of Panchayat Forest (PF);
(ii)  rehabilitate about 39,100 ha of Panchayat Protected
Forest (PPF); and
(iii)  establish about 0.9 M trees on private land;
(b) support FD operations by provision of additional
staff, buildings, seed stores, equipment, vehicles
and operating expenses to:
(i) establish a Community Forestry and Affore-
station Division (CFAD) in FD;
(ii) strengthen MOF forestry research activities;
and



- 13 -
(c) introduce fuel conservation measures through the estab-
lishment of a Stove Improvement Unit (SIU) in CFAD and
construction of about 15,000 improved stoves.
(2) Forestry Training: Expand staff training facilities by providing
staff, operating costs, civil works, equipment and -hicles to:
(a) establish a new university campus; and a program
for training Forest and Soil and Water Conservation
Officers, Foresters, and Soil and Water Conservation
Technicians;
(b) upgrade the existing Forestry Institute; and
(c) establish an Inservice Training Wing within MOF;
(3)  Midterm Review and Feasibility Studies:  Provide funds for:
(a) a midterm review of project progress;
(b) a feasibility study on the extraction of timber from
high altitude forests; and
(c) a feasibility study on the provision of fuelwood for
urban areas;
(4)  Technical Assistance:  Provide about 115 man-years of technical
assistance to assist:
(a) the field planting program;
(b) CFAD organization and administration;
(c) forestry research; and
(d) training course design and the lecturing program.
Responsibility for implementation of the community forestry and inservice
training components would be with Ministry of Forest; and for diploma and
certificate training with the Tribhuvan University under the Ministry of
Education.
2.06      The need to establish forests on substantially greater areas than
proposed in this project is recognized, 1/ but the constraints of trained man-
power shortages and lack of skills in community forestry (especially at the
village level) dictate a slow development rate over the present project
1/   Nepal Forestry Sector Review (1952-NEP) 1978 recommended 480,000 ha of
village woodlot at year 15, compared to the proposed 63,500 ha PF and
99,000 ha PPF under this project.



- 14 -
period. Dependent upon the success achieved in the field planting program
and in providing the necessary manpower, any follow-up project would have
increased afforestation targets.
Project Area - Community Forestry Development
2.07      The project would be implemented in 28 administrative districts
which are not presently covered by forestry components of existing or proposed
integrated rural development projects.  The proposed district I are located in
17 Forest Divisions (Map IBRD 14534) covering about 51,000 km (one-third of
Nepal) with a population of about 5 M people.
2.08      Project plantings would be confined to some 340 village panchayats
located in the middle hill zone, most of which lie between 500 and 2,000 m
a.s.l. It, therefore, excludes high altitude fDrest areas located above
2,600 m. Within the project area, many sites for reforestation have been
identified (Project File, Item 3), amounting to an average of 700 ha per
village panchayat.
2.09      The proposed community forestry program for each village panchayat
would be to establish a nursery in the first year and to plant, in the follow-
ing six consecutive years, 5, 10, 15, 20, 20 and 20 ha of PF. Thus, 90 ha of
PF would be planted per village panchayat over a seven year period. Allowing
for pre-project establishment of nurseries, 70 ha would thus be planted over
the five year project period, but this would onLy be possible in those pancha-
yats entering the project during the first year. In addition, from the
second year onwards, the program would provide each panchayat with about 900
seedlings annually for private plantings and setedlings for enrichment plant-
ing of PPF. The latter would be specified by C:FAD staff after inspection
of the areas proposed for PPF by village panchayats.
2.10      On the basis of available staff and an assessment of the receptivity
of village panchayats to establishment of community forests, FD has classified
Forest Divisions in the project area into two categories. The first, consist-
ing of Ilam, Kanchanjunga, Dudh Koshi, Kathmandu, Gorkha, Pokhara, Dhaulagiri,
Ridi, Dandeldhura and Mahakali Divisions (Group A), would enter the project in
the first year. The people in the second category, consisting of Solukhumbu,
Tamakoshi, Sindhuli, Trisuli, Marshyangdi, Achham and Doti Divisions (Group
B), would require further reorientation and education before they would be
ready to participate and their entry would be necessarily delayed until this
has been done.
2.11      The lack of 90 ha of suitable, but unforested land, which could be
delineated as PF under present rules, would not preclude a village panchayat
from participating in the project. Most village panchayats have adequate
areas of easily accessible forest (Project File, Item 2), much of it, however,
degraded and presently of low potential. Such areas can be made productive
by enrichment planting, but under the Forest Rules prevailing at the time of
appraisal, the presence of 120 trees/ha classifies them as PPF and this
precluded the area from reforestation. With such small numbers of trees,
these areas would never become productive, even if allowed to regenerate.



- 15 -
The Forest Rules were amended so that all areas in need of reforestation
can now be designated as PF. With the new definition, the area available
for PF has increased substantially.
2.12      The proposed planting and rehabilitation program is given below:
Project Planting Program
Project Year
1        2         3           4       5        Total
Panchayat Forest (ha)       250      925      2,025      3,550    5,000    11,750
Panchayat Protected
Forest (ha)            5,750    9,775       9,775      9,775    4,025 /a 39,100
Total (ha)           6,000   10,700    11,800    13,325    9,025    50,850
%                    12       22         24        27        12 /a      100
Private Plantings
('000 trees)             43      116        189       262       292         902
No. of Panchayats           50      85         85         85        35 Ia     340
/a   Assumes that only 340 panchayats would participate in the project and,
therefore, areas devoted to PPF and number of participating panchayats
are reduced in project year 5. Depending upon recommendations made as a
result of the midterm review, it is likely that the rate of entry of 85
panchayats each year into the project would be maintained or increased.
2.13      The rate of development within any Forest Division would be limited
to the induction of five village panchayats per year, and to a maximum of 20
panchayats per Division. This rate of induction would mean that panchayats
would be brought into HMG's long term plan for community forestry development
as follows:
No. of
Panchayats
Program Year      Calendar Years       in the Program
5 /a            1980-1985            340
10               1989-1990            645
15               1994-1995            935
/a  Covers present project period.
2.14      At the proposed rate of development, the following targets should
be met:



- 16 -
PF
Program Year    Planted       PPF    Private Planting
(ha)      (ha)       (M of trees)
5  (1984-85)    11,750    39,100             0.9
10  (1989-90)    37,350    74,175             3.0
15  (1994-95)    63,450   107,525             6.3
Community Forestry Development
2.15      The concepts underlying the three categories of forests to be
established under the project differ in many respects, including establish-
ment practices, management, species content, etc. Details of each type of
forest are given in paras 2.16 to 2.24.  Establishment costs are given in
Annex 7, Table 4 and summarized below:
Type of Forest               Planting and Establishment Costs /a
(NRs/ha)
Panchayat Forest                               894
Panchayat Protected Forest                     109 /b
Private Plantings                              876 /c
/a  includes nursery, planting, protection and maintenance costs.
lb  for protection and enrichment planting only.
/c includes an estimated NRs 720 for labor provided by individual
farmers for forests and trees planted on their own land.
B.  Detailed Features
Panchayat Forest (11,750 ha)
2.16      Planting.  The trees planted in PF would be mainly species suitable
for fuelwood production. Given the urgency for rapid production of this
commodity, preference would be given to faster growing species.  Species to
be planted, planting density and the management scheme to be followed would
depend on the site selected for reforestation (Project File, Item 3). Guide-
lines for plantation species and silvicultural regimes considered to be
appropriate are given in Project File, Item 4.
2.17      Generally, hardy species of pine would be planted on ridge top sites,
preferably blue pine or patula pine, but on severely degraded dry ridges, chir
pine is probably the only species that can be recommended. In eroded gulley
sites, Alnus, Prunus and Betula would be mixed with bamboo. In sites avail-
able at lower elevations and in those areas occupied by agricultural terraces,
Alnus, Prunus and Betula would be planted and the remnant sal and schima
allowed to coppice. Because of their long rotation period (80 to 120 years)
these latter species would not be planted.



- 17 -
2.18      Once land had been declared legally unencumbered (para 2.33), plant-
ing sites would be demarcated and their suitability confirmed by technical
CFAD staff located at Forest Division headquarters. Planting pits would then
be aligned and dug before the onset of the monsoon in May each year and, if
considered necessary, the area would also be fenced during this period.
Planting would commence in June each year, coinciding with "I.e onset of the
rains. Fodder grasses and legumes would be produced in PF, usually from
indigenous species naturally regenerating, but high yielding species would be
planted between trees when seeds become available from project seed stores.
2.19      Nurseries.  Under the project, an average of two nurseries would be
established in each participating village panchayat, giving a total project
requirement of 680. The optimum size of these nurseries is about 25,000 pots,
with annual production after losses of about 18,000 plants. In addition, one
FD nursery and three Range nurseries, of 100,000 and 50,000 pots respectively,
would be established within each Division to provide backup support for
panchayat nurseries; and facilities provided for testing improved nursery
techniques, raising species new to the area, and multiplying fodder grasses
and legumes.
2.20      All seed would be provided through the DFO who would either arrange
for its collection by staff of Range and Divisional nurseries or would obtain
it from seed stores to be provided under the project. All planting stock would
be at least one year old; therefore, in order for the project to begin at the
time of the 1980 planting season, it would be necessary for nursery establish-
ment, seed collection, forest demarcation, and some reorientation training
(para 2.43) to begin before project effectiveness in the first 50 selected
panchayats.
2.21      Forest Maintenance.  Tending operations would consist mainly of re-
placing dead seedlings and hoeing around trees. The amount of hoeing required
would be minimal as villagers would be allowed access to PF in order to
collect grass forage and, in many instances, this would be sufficient to
remove weed competition.
2.22      Forest Protection.  Because villagers participate in forest manage-
ment and operation, protection would not be a problem and would be generally
feasible without fencing, through cooperation of villagers, especially in the
control of livestock grazing. Experience in the Chautara and Pokhara areas
has adequately demonstrated that this approach is realistic. If considered
necessary, e.g. near to recognized cattle paths, fences would be built of
locally available materials or by using live hedges. The project would
provide labor and materials to fence approximately 25% of the perimeter of PF
and PPF in each panchayat. In any event, Panchayat Forest Watchers (PFW)
would be employed to guard the forest.
Panchayat Protected Forest (39,100 ha)
2.23      Degraded forests, which can be rehabilitated by simple protection,
would be classified as PPF. The same protection measures as with PF would be
used, with the addition of measures for fire protection in larger areas.



- 18 -
These remnant forests vary in location, species content and condition and,
therefore, management practices and potential yields also vary. In some
cases, enrichment planting of PPF would be required, but in sal forests at
lower altitudes, a substantial coppice pole crop could be obtained within 14
years with only protection measures. Management practices would be recommended
by the DFO or other CFAD technical staff after inspection of the proposed PPF
site. Guidelines for management schemes are provided in Project File, Item 4.
It is estimated that an average of 115 ha of PPF would be established per
village panchayat.
Tree Planting on Private Land
2e24      Villagers would be encouraged to plant trees on their own land near
the homestead. These would be mostly fodder trees, but some easily propagated
fruit trees would also be planted. The target would be to plant about 900
trees per year per village panchayat, or a total of 0.9 M trees over the
project period. Seedlings would be provided free of charge at the nurseries.
In addition to production and sale of tree seedlings, supplies of tree seeds
would be made available so that small farmers would be able to raise such
seedlings on their own homesteads following the successful experience
developed, for example, in various East African Countries.
Improved Stoves
2.25      New stoves have been designed and tested at Tribhuvan University
which, under experimental conditions, require only half the amount of fuel
used by the traditional Nepalese stove. These can be manufactured from local
clay at only a small cost (approximately NRs 70 or US$6 per stove). SIU would
be established in the Forestry Department under CFAD. This Unit would demon-
strate improvedl stoves in villages participating in the project and instruct
village artisans in methods of construction.  The aim would be to construct
15,000 improvec[ stoves over the project period.
2.26      The new Unit would be provided with equipment and vehicles and
would be expected to maintain close liaison with Tribhuvan University, the
research group working there on improved stove design, and the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit (MEU). The Unit would also provide a short training
course in stove! construction to the National Development Service which is
composed of postgraduate university students required to spend one year work-
ing in villages before proceeding with their studies.  These students, and
volunteers from other aid agencies, would complement the efforts of SIU to
introduce the new stove design throughout the Hills.
Forestry Research
2.27      The project would provide for the strengthening of research services
within CFAD by establishing a nationwide series of provenance trials; and also
within the Forest Survey and Research Office of FD, where applied forestry
research would be conducted on high priority problems affecting forest pro-
duction (see Project File, Item 7). A series of field stations is already
being established, with UK assistance, in the Hetaura corridor and a second
series would be! established under the project in a contrasting climatic area.



- 19 -
To ensure adequate coordination of research and liaison between scientists, a
national forestry research plan is required. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that such a plan would be prepared by FD and furnished to IDA for
review by July 15, 1981.
Project Implementation - Community Forestry Development
2.28      The success of the project will depend on the efficiency of the
restructured FD. Provision has therefore been made to establish (CFAD) within
FD, which, through a specialized Community Forestry Unit (CFU), would implement,
support and supervise the field planting program. Special support units would
be created for Monitoring and Evaluation, Motivation and Publicity, Stove
Improvement and Administration (Chart 20618). Funds would be provided for
staff, office buildings, operating costs, equipment, vehicles, civil works,
and seed stores (at Surkhet, Bhairawa and Dhankuta).
2.29      Forestry Staff.  Under the project, funds would be provided for
additional headquarters and field staff for CFAD and its constituent units.
Requirements are given below:
CFAD Staff Requirements
Central Administration
Total
Additional    at Full
Existing    Requirement   Development
Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests            0            1              1
Senior Foresters                               0           4              4
Unit Heads                                     1            4              5
Assistants to Unit Heads                       0            2              2
Stove Promoters                                0          12             12
Accountants                                    3            7             10
Clerks                                         5           4               9
Support Staff                                  9           3              12
Mechanics/drivers                             12            0             12
Guards                                        30            0             30
Field Operations
Total
Additional    at Full
Existing    Requirement   Development
DFO                                           14            3             17
Forest Officer attached to DFO                 2          15              17
Community Foresters                            0          85             85
Community Rangers                              0          17             17
Administration Foresters                       0           17             17
Nurserymen                                    17           17             34
Support Staff                               272           39            311



- 20 -
2.30      Housing and Transportation for Staff.  A lack of government housing
or rental accomodation is one of the major disincentives which discourages
forest officers from working in the Hills. Funds would be provided under the
project for the construction of houses and office accommodations for all
professional and technical field staff. These would be constructed in accord-
ance with standard government designs. In addition, quarters for volunteers/
associate experts providing technical assistance to the project (para 2.49)
would be provided at the headquarters of Ilam, Baitadi, Sindhuli, Pokhara,
Dudhkoshi, Doti, Dhaulagiri and Mahakali Divisions.
2.31      Community forests would be scattered over large areas and adequate
transport for field and headquarters staff would be essential.  At the divi-
sional level, there is seldom a sufficiently good road system to warrant
purchase of ca:rs which would be provided to only four divisions. In 13 of
the 17 divisions, the DFO would be provided with a horse. The project would
provide additional vehicles at central headquarters and a radio communications
network.
Forestry Department VehiclE: Requirements
Forest         CFAD          MOF
Divisions   Headquarters   Research    Total
Cars                -              4            -           4
4-Wheel Drive       4              1            1           6
Pickup              -              1            -           1
Horseas            13              -            -          13
Motorcycles         -              -            8           8
Operating Procedures
2.32      Initially, village panchayats would be encouraged to participate
in the project by field staff of CFAD, who, wit'h the assistance of the
Motivation and Publicity Unit (MPU) and Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU),
would arrange seminars, meetings and field visits and provide necessary visual
aids and educational material. In subsequent years, identification of
panchayats prepared to participate in the projebct would result solely from
the operations or MPU and MEU.
2.33      It would be the responsibility of the village panchayat to approach
DFO with a reqiest to participate in the project. After the proposal has
passed through the village and district panchayat system, areas to be planted
to trees (PF), or protected (PPF) would be identified. In the absence of
detailed survey, land cwnership in many areas is still in dispute at the
local level and is a critical problem in areas where cadastral survey and
boundary demarcation have not been attempted. However, forest areas can
still be demarcated Dy agreement between village panchayats, FD and the Land
Survey Departm2nt, if all these authorities concur that the land to be used
is not indiv4dPally owned and is free from dispute. CFAD staff would help
in the preparation of the forest management plan, and explain the nature and
provisions of the agreement to be entered into between the panchayat and CFAD
k2roject File, Item 4). Thne management plan would include details of future



- 21 -
arrangements for the fair distribution of forest products, (not previously a
problem under the traditional system of free access to the forest and its
products, see para 5.04). It is likely that panchayats will opt for different
distribution methods depending on the availability of forests and the local
demands for its products.
2.34      The panchayat scheme, as approved by DFO, would be forwarded to
the district panchayat. The District Forestry Committee would make recommen-
dations to the district panchayat on the technical feasibility of the proposal,
the priority level to be accorded, and a proposed date for acceptance into
the project. The final decisions would be made by the district panchayat.
2.35      Once the proposal has been formally agreed and DFO informed,
village panchayats would be assisted with implementation through regular
visits and supervision by CFAD staff.
2.36      The agreements to be negotiated between the village panchayat and
CFAD would outline the responsibilities of both parties and the rules for
forest management. Under the revised Forest Rules, agreements similar to the
proforma provided in Project File, Item 4 are to be executed. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that CFAD would issue a Forest Management Plan
to each participating panchayat, the format of which would be agreed with IDA
before September 1, 1980.
2.37      In order to carry out the project and to encourage the acceptance of
responsibility for forest management and collection of forest products by the
village panchayats, the Forest Rules were amended and clarified (para 2.11).
Forestry Training
2.38      A dearth of trained forestry staff and staff trained in the skills
of soil and water conservation (SWC) is a constraint which limits progress in
development of the forestry sector. Inservice training is also lacking for
professional and technical staff working in community forestry and SWC projects.
The project would, therefore, support increased formal training (Diploma and
Certificate courses) conducted by Tribhuvan University (by improving facilities
at the Forestry Institute at Hetaura and by constructing a new campus near
Pokhara) and by establishing a MOF Training Wing (MFTW) to provide short-term,
job-specific courses for MOF staff.
2.39      Staff Training Requirements.  The manpower requirements of MOF over
the next 10 years (including a 10% replacement of the existing establishment)
are given in Annex 6 and summarized below:



- 22 -
Department                      Officers       Technicians
(Diplcma)      (Certificate)
Soil & Water Conservation                  161               330
Forestry                                   219               970
Total MOF                                  380             1,300
Private Sector                               4                10
TotaL                                384              1,310
Annual Requirements                         38               130
Annual Replacement                          10                70
48               200
Based on probable future development and for planning purposes, it has been
assumed that 40 officers (Diploma level) and 200 technicians (Certificate
level) would be required annually.
2.40      Improvement of Training Facilities.  The student intake to the
Certificate course at the existing institute at Hetaura has already been
sharply increased and lack of land and utilities would prevent any further
large scale development of the campus. The institute would, therefore, be
upgraded by the provision of an auditorium, student hostel, senior staff
housing and single room living units. The institute is located in the Inner
Terai where conditions differ considerably froir. those generally prevailing
in the Hills, to which the emphasis of forestry in Nepal is now shifting.
Hence, in order to strengthen and reorientate forestry training, a new campus
would be built at Pokhara which would cater for the increased needs of both
Diploma training for Forestry and Soil and Water Conservation Officers and
an additional Certificate course in Forestry and SWC. This new campus would
require complete teaching facilities, staff quarters and hostel accommodation
(Annex 7, Table 8).
2.41      A new MFTW office building of about 520 m  would be constructed on
an available site in Kathmandu behind the existing MOF offices and adjoining
the Soil and Water Conservation Center. In addition, an area for demonstra-
tion and practical field training would be required for courses based in
Kathmandu. For this, the Chautara area, 87 km northwest of Kathmandu, would
be well-suited because of the community forestry development that has already
taken place there. Two staff houses, a dormitcry and a teaching block would
be built on a site there to be provided by HMG. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that suitable land had been acquired for all new construction
work at Kathmandu, Hetaura, Pokhara and Chautara.
2.42      Staff Requirements.  The teaching staff at Hetaura is more than
adequate to cover training course needs there. The new Certificate course,
to begin at Pokhara in 1981, would require 12 lecturers and five demonstrators.
Six lecturers would be transferred from Hetaura, three shared with the new
Diploma course, two would be expatriate volunteers and only one would be
recruited from among the ranks of serving officers. The Diploma course would
also begin in 1981 and would need 12 new lecturers, not including the Dean.
Six new science/agriculture graduates and six serving SWC/Forestry Officers



- 23 -
would be recruited for M.Sc. training abroad in the subjects to be taught as
part of the Diploma syllabus. The timing of the return of these officers
is critical to the commencement of the Diploma course. HMG had, therefore,
selected potential lecturers and, at the time of negotiations, they had either
left or were ready to depart for M.Sc. training at overseas universities.
2.43      About 100 technicians would be trained annually at Hetaura, and an
additional 100 at Pokhara from 1981 onwards. From 1984 onwards, about 40
professional officers would also be produced at Pokhara. A range of courses
would be given by MFTW to cover reorientation of DFO and Foresters, promotion
of Foresters to the Ranger grade and the practical needs of nursery men and
panchayat forestry employees. It is estimated that at full development 25
courses would be given each year for about 2,000 staff members. Draft cur-
ricula have been prepared for Diploma, Certificate and Inservice training
courses (Project File, Items 8 and 9). These were discussed at negotiations
and approved by HMG and IDA.
2.44      Total training staff requirements are as follows:
Certificate    Diploma
Staff Position                       MFTW      Course      Course    Total
Lecturers/Training Officers            3         14 /a        13       30
Technical Staff                        2          -            -        2
Senior Administrative Officers         -          2            -        2
Matrons                                -          2            1        3
Office Staff                           4          9            2       15
Other Support Staff                    9         22            6       37
Total                            18        49           22        89
/a  Three lecturers would be shared between Certificate and Diploma
courses.
2.45      Vehicles.  The following vehicles would be provided under the
project for training institutions.
Vehicles               MFTW   Hetaura   Pokhara    Total
Cars                         2         -          1          3
Four-wheel drive
vehicles                   2         -          2         4
Trucks                        1        2          2          5
Motorcycles                   -        -          2          2
Mini tractors                 -        -          2          2
Total                    5         2          9        16
2.46      Stipends and Scholarships.  A stipend of NRs 120 per month would
be paid to each Certificate student to assist with living expenses. In
addition, a scholarship of NRs 80 would be paid per month to candidates from



- 24 -
Hill districts Twho would otherwise not be able to afford training. This is
estimated to be about 50% of the student number. Students accepting stipends
and scholarships would be expected to work for HMG for a period of at least
two years after graduation.
2.47      Fellowships.  Overseas training would be provided for forestry staff
who would fill community forestry posts in the Hills and for lecturers and
trainers who would work in the formal and inservice training centers.
2.48      To overcome the immediate staffing problems of CFAD, 20 selected
science graduate students would be sent abroad for two year courses in fores-
try.  An extra five students would be trained in similar courses for the
Research Unit, but these trainees would require an additional course, specif-
ically on forestry research, for a period of about four months. Of the
existing staff at Hetaura, two lecturers each year for three years would be
sent overseas ior further non-degree training. Ideally, training for eight of
the Certificate course staff for Pokhara would be arranged as follows: four
would attend six month attachments in USA or UK; and another four would attend
the nine month FAO training officers' course in the Philippines (one course a
year for four years). Overseas training would also be included for the three
training officers of MFTW and for twelve SIU promoters of stove technology.
Technical Assistance
2.49      The concept of comaunity forestry is new to Nepal and the Hills,
the target area of the project. Furthermore, there is a shortage of trained
forestry staff. Therefore, in the early years, the project would require
substantial amounts of technical assistance, not only to assist in execution
of field planting programs and in organization and administration of CFAD
headquarters, but also to heLp establish the training and research programs.
The agencies arid countries indicated below have expressed an interest in
providing and financing technical assistance and negotiations are in progress.
In the event that technical assistance is not available, it is proposed that
the Credit be increased and the shortfall financed under the Credit. The
following technical assistance needs would be included in the project.
(a) Community Forestry Development Program -
CFAD Central O ffice (UNDP/FAO)
(i)  Forestry Advisor;
(ii)  Silviculturist;
(iiiB  SoCio-economist (MEU);
) iY a   n-=unications Specialist (MPU).



- 25 -
(b)  Community Forestry Development Program - CFAD Field Program
(UK, USA, Japan, Switzerland and Sweden).  A total of 14
expatriate Foresters (volunteers and associate experts) to
serve in seven of the Forestry Divisions would be recruited
through FAO and serve as part of the UNDP/FAO technical
assistance team.
(c)  Inservice Training - MFTW (USA).  Two expatriate training
officers--one in forestry and one in soil and water
conservation--for two years.
(d)  Formal Training - Tribhuvan University (USA).  A total of
about 200 man months for the services of expatriate lec-
turers and a coordinator for the Pokhara campus.
(e)  Forestry Research.  Six research scientists for three years.
(f)  Stove Improvement - SIU.  A consultant in stove technology
to visit Nepal for two months for each of the first three
years to provide advice and guidance on stove design and
to assess the appropriateness of the technology being
proposed.
2.50      In addition, consultants would be provided under the project to
assist in the preparation of the midterm review.
Midterm Review and Feasibility Studies
2.51      The project is the first phase of a longer term project for the
reforestation of the Hills. As it is innovative in nature and may require
adjustment, a midterm review is included under the project. This midterm
evaluation would also be the basis for the design of any subsequent project
in community forestry. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that the
terms of reference (TOR) and constitution of the review team would be agreed
with IDA before December 31, 1981. TOR for the review would need specialized
advice and provision is made, under the project, for hiring consultants to
carry out this work.
2.52      Fuelwood supplies to many of the urban areas are now in extremely
short supply. An estimated 70,000 tons are brought by government agencies
into towns like Kathmandu from the Terai each year. Other sources have been
the surrounding hills, from where wood is collected and brought to market in
head loads. The demands are high and this has led to the gradual denudation
of hills in the vicinity of towns and to a general degradation of the environ-
ment. Obviously, it would be preferable for wood to be provided from woodlots
located near urban centers and for energy saving stoves to be introduced,
perhaps using bricks or other materials easily available in towns. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that a feasibility study would be conducted
on fuelwood provision for urban areas. TOR would be drawn up by the Forest
Department and submitted to IDA for approval before June 30, 1981 and a study
team, acceptable to IDA, would be appointed before December 31, 1981.



- 26 -
Assurances were also obtained that basic data required for the study would be
collected before December 31, 1980. Draft TOR for data collection are pro-
vided in Project File, Item 12.
2.53      Much of the forest above 2,500 m a.s.l. consists of conifers and some
mixed hardwoods, is overmature and generally inaccessible. Population pres-
sure is now forcing farmers to migrate to those areas where some parts of the
forests have already been destroyed by fire in order to encourage growth of
pastures for grazing. Techniques are now available for the extraction of logs
from these areas by means of gravity winches and a study would be included
under the project to explore the feasibility of exploiting these high altitude
forest resources. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that TOR for the
study and the composition of the team to carry out the study would be submitted
to IDA for approval before June 30, 1981. Guidelines for TOR for both the mid
term review and the feasibility studies are included in the Project File,
Item 12.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Total estimated five year project cost is NRs 297.4 M (US$24.8 M)
including price and physical contingencies, and a negligible amount of taxes
and duties. Details, summarized below, are in Annex 7. Foreign exchange
amounts to NRs 116.9 M (US$9.7 M), or about 39% of total project costs.  There
is a complete :Lack of infrastructure in Nepal for community forestry develop-
ment and, therefore, its establishment requires an estimated 27% of total
project cost. Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal, updated
to December 19,79.



- 27 -
Summary Cost Estimate
Total Foreign
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Cost  Exchange
------ NRs M ------  ------ US$ M ------
I.   Village Forestry Program
PF                         8.75    0.97   9.72  0.73    0.08   0.81
PPF                        4.35    0.48   4.83  0.36    0.04   0.40
PP                         0.13    0.01   0.14  0.01    0.00   0.01
Nursery and Forestry
Development              35.42    3.93  39.35  2.95    0.33   3.28
Subtotal             48.65    5.39  54.04  4.05    0.45   4.50   18        10
II.  Project Administration,
Research and Energy
Conservation
Infrastructure and
Services                49.88   14.87  64.75  4.16    1.24   5.40
Improved Stove Program    1.93    0.97   2.90  0.16    0.08   0.24
Research                   4.12    0.55   4.67  0.34    0.05   0.39
Forest Officer Training   0.00    8.10   8.10  0.00    0.67   0.67
Subtotal             55.93   24.49  80.42  4.66    2.04   6.70   27        31
III. Training                  25.49   19.04  44.53  2.12    1.59   3.71   15        43
IV.  Technical Assistance       4.90   44.30  49.20  0.41    3.69   4.10   17        90
V.   Midterm Review and
Feasibility Studies      0.55    2.65   3.20  0.05    0.22   0.27    1        81
TOTAL BASE COST          135.52   95.87 231.39 11.29    7.99  19.28             41
Physical Contingencies    8.10    1.63   9.73  0.67    0.14   0.82    3
Price Contingencies       36.91   19.37  56.28  3.08    1.61   4.69   19
TOTAL PROJECT COST       180.53  116.87 297.40 15.04    9.74  24.78             39
3.02      Physical contingencies of 10% have been applied to construction
costs of buildings, nursery and forest plantations, building maintenance and
stove construction. Price contingencies for all items, including civil works,
equipment, vehicles, etc. are estimated at about 19% of project costs and are
based on expected international and domestic price escalations of 10.5%, 9%,
and 8% per annum for 1980, 1981, and 1982, respectively, and 7% thereafter.



- 28 -
B. Financing
3.03      Project costs would be financed as follows:
Technical         Other
Assistance    Development               % of
Packages         Costs       Total    Total
---------       -U M --------------
HMG                                          1.7         1.7        7
IDA                           0.3           16.7        17.0       69
Multilateral and
Bilateral Aid Agencies    6.1 /a            -          6.1       24
Tota'L                  6.4            18.4       24.8      100
/a UNDP/FAO US$2.84 M, USAID US$3.24 M.
The IDA Credit of US$17.0 M would finance 45% of foreign exchange costs
amounting to US$4.3 M (i.e., excluding those provided under technical assist-
ance agreements) and about 85% of local costs amounting to US$12.7 M, equiv-
alent to about 69% of total project cost. HMG would contribute about 7% and
bilateral aid agencies 24% (through technical assistance) of total project
costs. At negotiations, HMG agreed that the UNDP and USAID grants would be
executed prior to Credit effectivenenss.
3.04      In order to ensure an early start to the project, retroactive financ-
ing not exceeding US$0.8 M would be provided from October 1, 1979 to date of
Credit signing for expenditures incurred in the provision of planting material,
for land preparation, plantation protection, and initial training in community
forestry for staff associated with the 1980 planting season.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
3.05      Civil works and procurement of equipment, furniture and vehicles
involving contracts above US$100,000 and aggregating about $1.0 M would be on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Where costs of civil works and equipment packages are below this
limit, procurement would be under procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association. Because of inaccessibility of villages in the project area and
the small size of individual schemes, it would not be practical to group
plantation and civil works contracts at Divisional level for ICB or local
competitive bidding (LCB). Consequently, these would either be undertaken by
MOF, using local paid labor, or by local contractors in accordance with
established HMG petty contracting procedures. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the above mentioned procedures would be followed.



- 29 -
3.06      Disbursement of funds would be on the following basis:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures
for civil works carried out by foreign contractors;
(b)  85% of local expenditures for civil works carried Uut either
by local contractors or by force account;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture and vehicles and 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) for locally manufactured goods and 75% of
local expenditures for other goods procured locally;
(d) 100% of total expenditures for training;
(e) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services;
(f) 85% of local expenditures for salaries and project allowances
for staff engaged in the project; and
(g) 85% of local expenditures for project operating costs.
3.07      Disbursement against civil works carried out by force account and
by local contracts worth US$5,000 equivalent or less and (f) and (g) above
would be made against statements of expenditure, certified by the Secretary
of Forest or Joint Secretary of Education, whichever is appropriate.
Documents supporting statements of expenditure would not be submitted to
IDA for review, but would be retained by HMG, and would be made available
for inspection and review by accredited IDA representatives during project
supervision. Requests for disbursement against other items would be fully
documented. Disbursement estimates are given in Annex 4. Any funds remain-
ing in the Credit account upon project completion would be cancelled.
D. Accounts and Audit
3.08      The accounting offices of HMG and Tribhuvan University were visited
during appraisal and found to be adequate to carry out project accounting
procedures. Each ministry and university institute would:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts for the project in
accordance with sound accounting practices and ensure that
these accounts be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA; and
(b)  send certified copies of the audited accounts and auditor's
report to IDA within 12 months 1/ after the close of each
1/ All accounts are placed before the Rastrya Panchayat and are not deemed
fully audited until commented upon and passed by this legislative body.



- 30 -
fiscal year. The audit report woulcd be required to include
inter alia a statement that funds disbursed against state-
ments of expenditure had been used for the purpose for which
they were provided.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above mentioned accounting
and audit procedures would be adopted.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMENT
4.01      Implementation of the project would require reorganization of FD to
provide an administrative and operational structure through which community
forestry activities could be controlled and coordinated. The principal agency
resulting from this reorganiation would be the Community Forestry and Affore-
station Division (CFAD) under a Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests, who
would be directly answerable to the Chief Conservator. CFAD would be formed
by an amalgamation of the existing Afforestation Unit with new units for
Community Forestry (CFU), Motivation and Publicity (MPU), Monitoring and
Evaluation (MEU), Stove Improvement (SIU) and Administration. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that CFAD would be established within FD, with a head
with qualifications and experience acceptable t:o IDA, and that CFU would be
headed by a person with relevant qualifications and experience.
Community Forestry Unit (CFU)
4.02      CFU would be the main operational agency for the project.  The
administrative head would be assisted by four Senior Forest Officers who would
be responsible for community forestry operations in Far Eastern, Central,
Western and Far Western regions of the country. These regions would comprise
4, 4, 5 and 4 Forest Divisions, respectively, all of which are included in the
project area (see Chart 20618 and Map IBRD 14534). Senior Forest Officers in
charge of regions would administer divisions under their control so that the
project targets could be met, supervise the activities of DFO, and control
revenues and expenditures.
4.03      Ultirnately, in recognition of the different needs of the Hills and
the plains, FD should be reorganized into two major forestry departments, one
responsible for the Terai and the other for the Hills and Mountains. It
would be administratively and politically difficult to make these changes
immediately, but the possibilities for reorganization should be explored at
the time of the midterm review (para 2.51).
4.04      The DFO and his assistant professional officer, termed an Attached
Officer (AO), are stationed at divisional headquarters. In addition to their
new duties under the project, their responsibilities for forest protection
would continue, and additional staff, including a Forester to assist with
administration, would be provided at divisional headquarters to enable them to
cope with the enlarged work load.



- 31 -
4.05      Under the project, DFO would be responsible for the overall devel-
opment and administration of community forestry programs in their Divisions.
This would include the examination and monitoring of records kept at village
panchayat level and arrangements for transfer of funds to panchayats for
payment of staff wages and other eligible expenditures. DF0 would provide
technical guidance to divisional staff and advice to the CDO and district
panchayat on community forestry matters. It would be essential that DFO
participate at district panchayat meetings at which proposals for PF and PPF
would be discussed, and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotia-
tions. The AO would accept a large part of the responsibility for ongoing
FD forest protection activities, thus allowing DFO more time for community
forestry programs.
4.06      Foresters and Rangers to be employed in the Hills would receive
reorientation training from MFTW. They would then be redesignated Community
Foresters and Rangers and posted to the Hills, one Ranger to each division
and one Forester to each four panchayats participating in the project. The
Community Forest Ranger, under the guidance of DFO, would be responsible for
advising the village panchayats on the suitability of sites selected for PF
and PPF, surveying areas, demarcation, and design of silvicultural regimes
and forest management plans. The Community Forester (CF) would supervise
implementation of these plans, organize nurseries and supervise the work of
panchayat level forestry employees. CF would also be responsible for veri-
fication of claims for reimbursement by village panchayats for expenditures
made under the project and for submitting these claims to DFO. CF and
Rangers, as members of CFU, would be controlled directly through DFO and the
head of CFAD.
4.07      Under the project, participating village panchayats would recruit
two Panchayat Forest Foremen (PFF) to supervise nurseries and planting opera-
tions, provide the basis of a village panchayat community forestry extension
service, and control about six Panchayat Forest Watchers (PFW) for protection
of forests. PFF would work under the technical guidance of CF. Unskilled
labor would be employed for most nursery work, and for pitting and planting.
The village panchayat would be expected to organize voluntary labor for some
tending, grass collecting and forest harvesting operations, and ultimately for
replanting of forests after clear felling at the end of the first rotation.
Seed Stores
4.08      The management of existing seed stores, those to be established
under the project, and organization of the service to provide DFO with the
seed required by community forest nurseries would be through the existing
staff of the Seed Unit of the Afforestation Unit. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that sufficient staff would be made available for the operation
of project seed stores.
Forestry Research
4.09      The organization of nationwide provenance trials would be the
responsibility of CFU. CF would arrange for establishment, maintenance and
recording of results from each trial. Advice on experimental designs, methods,



- 32 -
and species to be tested would be provided by the expatriate silviculturist
who would be part of the UNDP/FAO technical assistance team (para 2.49).
4.10      In addition, an enhanced applied research component would be
executed by the existing Research and Mensuration Unit of MOF Forest Survey
and Research Office, which would be strengthened under the project through
the provision of additional staff and equipment. The Unit Head would direct
the research program (outlines of which are provided in Project File, Item 7),
with assistance from existing ODA senior research consultants whose continued
involvement inI research would help to ensure the efficient development of the
research program. Forest research in Nepal would be coordinated and planned
by the Community Forestry Technical Committee (para 4.19).
Motivation and Publicity Unit (MPU)
4.11      A key objective oif the project is to promote community forestry as
an integral part of village life. Full participation of local communities
is, therefore, required and this would depend on the dedication of project
workers and their ability to motivate and involve local people. A special
Unit would be established in CFAD, directly responsible to the Head of CFAD,
to design, implement, and monitor a comprehensive program aimed at involving
villages in the community forestry project. Thle program would include distri-
bution of brochures and pamphlets, radio broadcasts, meetings, seminars, and
appropriate field visits and study tours. Motivation activities would be
required mainly in the early years to get the project started.
4.12      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MPU would be set up
by HMG, with a head with relevant qualifications and experience, by August 31,
1980, and that an outline of the proposed program of activities of the Unit be
made available to IDA for review before December 31, 1980.
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU)
4.13      There is a lack of valid information on the role that wood plays
in the life of Hill residents, time involved ir fuelwood and fodder (leaves
and grass) colLection, mechanisms for distribution of fuelwood and fodder
within villages, and amount of wood used for ncn-fuel purposes (e.g. roofing,
implements, etc). In addition, there is a need for a strong MEU to provide
information to project management and assess the impact of the project on
national wood production. MEU would be located in CFAD headquarters, directly
responsible to the Head, CFAD.
4.14      Monitoring.  An economist/sociologist, recruited locally as head
of MEU, would be assisted for the first three years by an expatriate socio-
economist provided under a technical assistance agreement.  MEU would:
(a)  carry out a survey of the role of wood in the life of
rural residents in the Hills;
(b)  assess techniques for the introductiom of PF, PPF, private
plantings (PP) and improved stoves;



- 33 -
(c) assist MPU in planning its materials and campaigns;
(d) monitor and assess by survey, reports and spot checks
progress of the project, including, in particular,
(i)  area established and the species mix planted iii
nurseries, PP and PF;
(ii) extent of local participation;
(iii) local acceptance of, and reaction to, the introduction
of improved stoves;
(iv) access to, and the quality of, training schemes for
PFF and PFW;
(v)  success of motivational and publicity materials;
(vi) availability and timing of inputs;
(vii) socioeconomic effects of the introduction of the
project and the development of PF and PPF; and
(viii) evaluation in pilot research areas, through systematic
sampling on selected farms, of the possible impact on
agricultural productivity of making fuelwood readily
available at the homestead and obviating the need for
continued burning of crop residues and animal dung.
(e) be responsible for preparation of project progress reports
and the project completion report.
4.15      Evaluation of project impact would also be the responsibility of
MEU. Provision would be made for the employment of expatriate/local consul-
tant firms/individuals to assist in this activity. Costs are detailed in
Annex 7. In addition, at the end of the third year of project implementation,
a joint HMG/IDA team would carry out the midterm review (para 2.51).
4.16      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MEU would be set
up by HMG, with head with relevant qualifications and experience, by August
31, 1980, and that a MEU work program would be submitted to IDA for review no
later than December 31, 1980.
The Stove Improvement Unit (SIU)
4.17      SIU would be an integral part of CFAD with a Unit Head directly
responsible to Head, CFAD. The activities of the Unit would be coordinated
from central headquarters and the Head would be required to work closely with
the Heads of MPU and MEU. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SIU
would be established, with a Head with relevant qualifications and experience,
by August 31, 1980, and that a work program would be made available to IDA for
review by December 31, 1980.



- 34 -
The Administration and Logistics Section
4.18      This would be directly under the control of the Head of CFAD and
would comprise separate units dealing with Accounts and Administration, in
addition to a Machinery Service Unit, with trained drivers and mechanics.
Staff details are given in Annex 7, Table 2.
Project Coordination
4.19      Coordination and cooperation with programs and policies of other
government agencies working at both national and district level would be
achieved through the following committees:
(a) The Project Coordinating Committee would be established
to determine overall policy and to coordinate with other
Departments and Ministries. It would meet twice a year
and would be under the chairmanship o; the Secretary for
Forest. Members would include Head of CFAD (Secretary),
CCF, Director General SWC Department, Dean of Forestry
Institute, Head of Research Division of Forest Department,
Director General of Survey Department of Ministry of Land
Reform, and representatives from the Mlinistries of Home
Panchayat, Finance, Education, and Agriculture.
(b)  The Community Forestry Coordinating Committee would conduct,
at the working level, the planning anci implementation of the
project. The chairman would be CCF arnd members would
include: Head of CFAD (Secretary), re!presentative from
Ministry of Home Panchayat, Head of Af'forestation Unit, Head of
MEU, l1ead of MPU, Head of CFU, Head of MFTW'. Representatives
from FAO and other bilateral aid agencies would be invited
to att-end at the discretion of the chairman. The committee
would meet four times each year.
(c) The Community Forestry Technical Committee would be
responsible for analyzing the technical aspects of proj-
ect progress, for recommending changes in procedures and
for introducing improved methodology. The Head of CFAD
would be the chairman and members would include: the
Dean of Forestry Institute, Head of SWC Department, Head of
MEU, Head of Research and Survey Section (Secretary), FAO
silvicultrist and representatives from ongoing bilateral
aid agency programs with large forestry components. The
committee would meet every six months.
4.20      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these committees
would be constituted before August 31, 1980. At the district, division and
panchayat levels, the project would be operated through the existing committee
system (paras 1.16 to 1.17) which would need no reorganization except for
ensuring that DF'O becomes more closely associated with the work of the district
panchayat (para 4.05).



- 35 -
Inservice Training
4.21          A Chief Training Officer would head MFTW and would be directly
answerable to the Secretary of Forest. The Unit would provide practically-
oriented inservice training in Forestry and SWC with a training officer in
charge of each discipline, assisted for the first two years by two expatriate
officers. To cover the needs of existing and additional community forestry
staff, reorientation courses (20 participants/course) would be arranged and
at least one additional two-week course for DFO arranged early in the life
of the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that MFTW would be
set up before August 31, 1980, with a head with relevant qualifications and
experience.
4.22      Upon completion of the initial community forestry orientation
training course, MFTW would equip each new CF with the necessary instructions
and course notes to enable him to train PFW and PFF when assigned to a Hill
division. A large proportion of total MFTW courses would be delivered in this
way.
4.23      The  management and organization of the formal training component
would be through the normal administration of Tribhuvan University, with
the Dean of the Forestry Institute being responsible for project implemen-
tation. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING, COST RECOVERY AND IMPACT
OF PROJECT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
Yields and Production
5.01      The main products from forests established under the project would
be fuelwood and fodder. Minor products of little economic importance would
be wood for house construction, medicinal plants and fruits (mainly from PP).
5.02      Summaries of yield estimates of fuelwood and leaf and grass fodder
in PF, PPF, and PP are provided below, and details provided in Annex 1,
Tables 1-3.



- 36 -
Annual Yields of Forest Products
Future     Future
without     with
Present        Project    Project
I.   Fuelwood (m /ha)
PF                            0               0      11.0 /a
PPF                           1.6             0 /g    5.0 lb
pp                            0               0       6.0 7O
II.  Leaf Fodder (ton/ha)
PPF                           2.0             0 /h    7.5 /d
PP                            0               0      60.0 /e
III. Grass Fodder (ton/ha)
PF                           4.0             4.0      0 /f
3                                   3
/a   Actual harvest:  5 m  in 14th and 15th years and 160 m  in 16th
year (end of rotation).
/b   From year 17 onwards.
7T   From year 8 onwards.
/d   Collected from sparse, slow growing, indigenous species in mixed
forests.
/e   Estimated yield from well-cultivated, rapidly growing species.
/f   From year 19 onwards.
/g   From year 16 onwards.
/h   From year 14 onwards.
Markets and Prices
5.03      Fuelwood and fodder have no financial price in the Hills because
neither commodity is marketed; each family satisfies its own needs by col-
lecting freely available forest products.  Under these conditions, it is not
possible to extrapolate market prices prevailing in Kathmandu and other main
urban areas into the non-monetized conditions of the Hill rural areas.
Economic prices of fuelwood and fodder are discussed in para 6.08.
Distribution of Produce between Villagers
5.04      At present there is no workable arrangement for the distribution
of forest products among Hill panchayat community members. Legally, all
forest products should be sold and collections supervised under a permit
system, but these regulations have been impossible to apply in practice
because of low 'Level of staffing of FD in the Hills, general antagonism
of the populace towards the law enforcing role cf FD, and cumbersome admin-
istrative procedures, which would require detailed records of numerous small
transactions. The Hill forests have therefore been exploited as freely
available communal resources in a largely uncontrolled manner.



- 37 -
5.05      With the establishment of PF and PPF under the project and the
restoration of community responsibility for forest management, protection
and use, this system is unacceptable, and new procedures are required to
ensure that extraction of forest products is controlled, and that production
is distributed according to needs. It is impossible to devise a system of
rules for distribution which could be applied throughout the Eills because
methods of distribution must be appropriate to the prevailing conditions.
In areas relatively well-endowed with forest resources, a relaxed set of
rules may be appropriate, with permits only being required for felling large
trees, but in other, less fortunate, areas strict control may be necessary,
or even some form of communal harvesting and distribution, organized and
supervised by the village panchayat. It is essential that no distribution
schemes be imposed upon the village panchayat from outside, as there is a
danger that this would be resented and ignored, and that there would be a
reversion to uncontrolled forest use. It is, therefore, proposed that schemes
for the distribution of forest products be devised by the village panchayats
and included in the legal agreements between CFAD and the village panchayat
which is a condition for participation in the project (Project File, Item 4).
DFO and the district panchayat would, therefore, be required to examine and
approve the scheme before the village panchayat's proposals for PF and PPF
were accepted and community forestry field staff would be responsible for
ensuring that actual sharing is done in accordance with the provision of the
agreement. The implication of the scheme would be monitored by MEU, by
interviewing panchayat members, and spot checks in selected panchayats at
critical stages of harvest; e.g., tree thinning.
5.06      The produce from trees grown on private land would all belong to
the owner, who would have the right to determine the method of disposal
of production in excess of his own requirements.
Cost Recovery
5.07      Abject poverty is widespread in the project area.  As an indication,
and on the basis of data available, the estimated annual per capita income for
those living in the project areas is of the order of US$24, 1/ which is well
below the national average (US$120) and the critical consumption level for
rural areas (US$80). Villagers would harvest forest products under communal
arrangements embodied in forest plans, but there would be no cash income.
Under these circumstances, the project would provide a service, mostly in
remote inaccessible areas, for which the local population would be unable to
pay and no cost recovery is proposed. This is a reasonable policy given the
benefits expected (paras 6.02 to 6.07) and the relatively small burden to be
placed on HMG resources (paras 5.08 to 5.09). Depending on experiences in the
project, this policy may be revised in future projects.
Project Impact on HMG Budget
5.08      The 1977/78 budget for MOF was raised from NRs 26.5 M to NRs 38.0 M
and the approved budget for 1978/79 is NRs 106.1 M. During the implementation
1/   Nepal Agricultural Sector Review (2205-NEP) 1979, p. 3.



- 38 -
period, HMG would provide 7% of project costs. At the completion of the
project, HMG would continue to pay staff salaries and operating costs for
incremental staff and for replacing equipment, amounting to an annual commit-
ment of NRs 19 M (US$1.6 M) based on current prices. This would amount to
an increase of 18% in MOF annual expenditure aver 1978/79 levels and should
be met with little difficulty.
5.09      The long-term HMG program for afforestation in the Hills will
ultimately involve 1,090 village panchayats and will require three more
five-year projects with aims similar to those of the present project. These
follow-up projects will benefit from the infrastructure established at
Forest Division and FD headquarters levels under this project, and, assuming
that clear-felled forests would be replanted by village panchayats on a
self-help basis, the additional commitment of I1MG in the year 2000 would be
about NRs 21.5 M (or US$1.8 M), the meeting of which is unlikely to pose
difficulties.
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
6.01      The increase in forest produce expected under the project would
directly benefit about 290,000 families or about 1.9 M people living in 340
participating panchayats. Employment opportunities and increased access
to free fuelwood and fodder would preferentially benefit the rural poor.
Incremental production is summarized in paras 5.01 to 5.02.
Benefits
6.02      The main outputs from the project would be fuelwood and leaf fodder.
Forest projects are long term by nature, but production will begin from the
first or seconc' year, reaching a peak in the 20th year (assuming a 16 ye r
rotation) when total production of fuelwood is esSimated to be 980,000 m .
Thereafter, a sustained annual yield of 3190,000 m  is expected from PP and PPF.
Assuming an annual requirement of one m fuelwood per capita, the project
would provide about one-third of the total fuelwood requirements of the popu-
lation of the 340 participating panchayats in the year 2000 and the total
requirements for about 190,000 people annually 1:hereafter. These numbers
would be substantially increased if advantage i; taken of the infrastructure
provided under this project to increase the scope and size of followup proj-
ects which could be started in the intervening years.
6.03      Main sources of leaf fodder would be }'PF, producing about 84% of
an estimated total of 330,000 tons annually after year 13 which would be
sufficient for the requirements of 132,000 cattle. The remaining 16% would
be harvested from PP. Up to the present, most grass fodder is produced in
areas to be designated as PF, (about 47,000 tons annually) and without the
project, production would be expected to remain at this level. However, as
the tree canopy in planted PF closes, natural grass production would have to
be replaced by the foliage from fodder trees (Annex 1, Table 1).
6.04      A further benefit from the project would be increased food produc-
tion. Increases in production of fuelwood from PF, PPF, and PP would reduce



- 39 -
the rate at which cow dung and agricultural wastes are being diverted from
their present use as crop fertilizers to fuel. The quantification of the
extent of this effect is difficult, but based on data given in Annex 3,
Table 3, the project would help prevent the loss of 156,000 tons of maize,
at the peak year, equivalent to one-third of present maize production in the
Hills. 1/ I, addition, milk and meat production would be increased by the
greater abundance and better quality fodder made available.
6.05      Employment.  Over the 5 year implementation period, the project is
expected to generate 2.6 M man days (8,700 man years) additional employment.
Labor would be needed for seed collection, nursery establishments, tree
planting and subsequent maintenance operations and for construction work
in Kathmandu and elsewhere. Availability of these largely unskilled jobs
would mainly benefit the poorer members of the community.
6.06      Conservation of Fuelwood.  Introduction of 15,000 improved stoves
would result in savings of about 25,000 tons of fuelwood annually (Project
File, Item 6), equivalent to the annual requirements of 4,000 households.
6.07      Environment.  The major environmental impact of project forestry
activities would be on soil conservation and protection of rural water supplies.
Part of the afforestation program would be directed at rehabilitating gullies
caused by water erosion, and establishing forests on hill tops above agricul-
tural terraces. These forests would help to prevent future erosion and, as
the forest canopy develops, improved ground cover would reduce run off, thus
helping to ensure village water supplies from mountain springs.
Economic Analysis and Rates of Return
6.08      The economic analysis concentrates on the economic consequences
of community forestry programs. In the absence of market prices for fuelwood
and fodder (para 5.03), benefits have been calculated on the basis of avoided
losses to maize production and increases in milk production (Annex 3, Tables
2 and 4). The assumption has been made that the labor involved in collecting
and preparing animal dung for fuel would be the same as that used for collect-
ing and spreading the same amount on agricultural crops. This is reasonable
given the small average farm size (0.4 ha). The costs of research, improved
stoves, the midterm review and feasibility studies, and the minor benefits
accruing from the production of fruit, medicinal plants and wood for house
construction have been excluded from the analysis.
6.09      Input costs and output values have been evaluated at border prices:
prices of internationally traded goods were converted at the official exchange
rate (US$1.00 = NRs 12.0) and non-internationally traded goods by appropriate
conversion factors. The Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) is currently esti-
mated at 0.9 and the construction conversion factor (assuming 15% of construc-
tion costs are for traded items) at 0.915. Domestic wage rates for unskilled
male labor were estimated at NRs 9.0 per day, and those for women and children
at 75% of the rate for males; wages were converted into border values by SCF.
1/   Nepal Agricultural Sector Review, (2205-NEP), 1979, page 73.



- 40 -
All costs are expressed in 1979 constant prices, net of taxes. Economic cost
benefit streams are given in Annex 3, Table 5. On the basis of the foregoing
assumption, the estimated economic rate of return for the project as a whole
is estimated at 16%.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.10      Sensitive and switching values were used to determine which variables
would be most crucial to the success of the project. A switching value is
the value of the variable tested for which the net present value, discounted
at 12% (the opportunity cost of capital in Nepal) is zero, and is a measure
of the extent to which the variable can differ from its most likely value
before the project becomes economically unacceptable. Results of the sen-
sitivity tests are given below:
Sensitivity Analysi.s
Appraisal       Switching
Variable                                 Value         Value /a    % Change
Fuelwood Yield (ton/ha)                       160 /b           81          -33
CFAD Investment: and Operating
Cost:  Net Present Value (NRs M)             90             209         +116
Village Forest Cost: Net
Present Value- (NRs M)                       74             187         +151
Technical Assistance Cost:
Net Present Value (NRs M)                    37             149         +301
/a   Value of variable for which net present value is zero at a discount
rate of 12%.
/b   Yield at the end of rotation in PF, as an example.
Project Risks
6.11      The project faces no major risks in terms of unsatisfactory rate of
return since the sensitivity analysis shows that large changes could occur in
costs or prices before the project becomes economically non-viable. The
production of fuelwood is the most critical single factor, but the basic
technology is available and simple to apply and it is unlikely that production
would be less than anticipated.
6.12      The project aims to foster community involvement in afforestation
programs with the initiative to participate comiLng from village panchayats.
There is a risk, however, that the number of vi:Llage panchayats willing to
participate may not reach targets set and that the rate of induction may be
discontinuous and uneven. The project provides for a flow of information
to panchayats through the activities of MPU and MEU and field staff and also
provides retraining for forestry staff in the methodology required for success-
ful implementation of community forestry programs to reduce the risk of apathy
and ignorance of the project at village level.



- 41 -
6.13      There is also a risk that free distribution of seedlings may lead
to excessive waste, especially in private plantings. MEU would continuously
monitor seedling production, planting and survival rates and study the effects
of free distribution. The merits of the proposed scheme would be a subject of
the midterm review.
6.14      There is a risk that the more affluent members of the village com-
munity, being socially and economically powerful, would be the major benefi-
ciaries of PF and PPF products. This risk will increase in later years when
the forests have grown and production becomes substantial. The agreement
drawn up between CFAD and the village panchayat committees would require the
adoption of a forestry management plan which would include rules for the
distribution of forest products.
6.15      Overall, given the public interest in afforestation and the dedi-
cation of HMG to community forestry, the risks are low. The midterm review
will enable the project to be adjusted as a result of real or anticipated
threats to achievement of project goals.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  a national forestry research plan would be prepared by
MOF and furnished to IDA for review by July 15, 1981
(para 2.27);
(b)  CFAD would issue a Forest Management Plan to each par-
ticipating panchayat, the format of which would be
agreed with IDA before September 1, 1980 (para 2.36);
(c)  suitable land had been acquired for all new construc-
tion work (para 2.41);
(d)  membership of the midterm review team and TOR would be
agreed with IDA before December 31, 1981 (para 2.51);
(e)  basic data required for the feasibility study on fuel-
wood provision for urban areas would be collected before
December 31, 1980, TOR for the feasibility studies on
fuelwood supply to urban areas and extraction of com-
mercial timber from high altitude forests would be made
available to IDA for review before June 30, 1981 and
membership of the study team agreed with IDA before
December 31, 1981 (paras 2.52 and 2.53);
(f)  International Competitive Bidding would be followed in
accordance with IDA guidelines for civil works and procure-
ment packages valued at more than US$100,000. Orders for
goods below this figure would be purchased following
procedures satisfactory to the Association (para 3.05);



- 42 -
(g)  separate accounts would be kept by participating government
ministries; constituent departments, divisions and field
offices; audited annually by independent auditors and
copies of reports sent to IDA for review within 12 months
of the close of the fiscal year (para. 3.08);
(h) CFAD had been established in FD, with a head with quali-
ficat.ions and experience acceptable to IDA and that CFU
had been established with a head with relevant qualifi-
cations and experience (para 4.01);
(i) DFO would participate in district panchayat meetings at
which proposals for PF and PPF would be discussed (para
4.05);
(j) Sufficient staff from the Seed Unit would be made available
to run the seed stores (para 4.08);
(k)  MPU, SIU and MEU would be set up, witla suitably qualified
and experienced Heads, by August 31, L980 and outlines of
proposed work programs be submitted to IDA for review before
December 31, 1980 (paras 4.12, 4.16 anld 4.17);
(1)  Project Coordinating Committee, Community Forestry Coordinat-
ing Committee and Community Forestry Technical Committee be
constituted before August 31, 1980 (para 4.20);
(m) MFTW would be established in MOF, with a suitably qualified
and experienced Head, before August 3]., 1980 (para 4.21); and
(n)  the Dean of the Forestry Institute, Tribhuvan University, would
be responsible for the implementation of the formal training
component (para 4.23).
7.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness are that:
(a) a UND:P grant for technical assistance and support for CFAD
Central Office and for the field program have been executed
(paras 2.49 and 3.03); and
(b)  a USAID grant for technical assistance and support for
inservice and formal training have been executed (paras
2.49 and 3.03).
7.03      In order to prepare for the 1980 planting season, it is recommended
that retroactive financing of up to US$0.8 M be provided to cover nursery,
training and demarcation expenditures from October 1, 1979 until the signing
of the proposed project (para 3.04).
7.04      With the above assurances and conditicns, the project would be suit-
able for an IDA Credit of US$17 M on standard IDA terms. The borrower would
be His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



NEPAL
COMMtUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Development
Natural Grass and Fuelwood Production - Panchayat Forest
Natural Grass                                                                               Fuelwood
Planted Area                 Without Proiect                                 With Project
Year      Incremental  Cumulative           Yield       Production         Yr. 1-5        Yr. 6-10      Yr. 11-16       Total           Incremental        Yr. 14            r  16         TotqI
(ha)          ha)         (4 ton/ha)        (ton)         (4 ton/ha)   (2.5 ton/ha)  (1 tton/ha)         (tn                                (5 m         7 16      h.
1            250            250             4            1,000            1,000             -              -         1,000                 -               -               -               _
2            925          1,175             4            4,700            4,700             -              -         4,700                 -               -                -              _
3          2,025          3,200             4           12,800           12,800             -              -        12,800                 -                -
4          3,550          6,750             4           27,000           27,000             -              -         27,000                 -               -               _              _
5          5,000         11,750             4          47,000            47,000             -              -        47,000                 -                -               -              _
6               -            "              4                            46,000           625              -        46,625              -375                -               -              _
7              -                                            "            42,300         2,938              -        45,238           -1,762                -                _              _
8               -                                                        34,200         8,000              -        42,200           -4,800                 -               -              _
9               -            "                              "            20,000        16,875              -        36,875           -10,125                -               -              _
10               -                                                              -       29,375              -        29,375          -17,625                 -               -
11               -                            '                                 -       28,750            250        29,000          -18,000                 -               -              _
12               -                                                             -        26,438          1,175        27,613          -19,387                 -               -              _
13               -            "              "                                  -       21,375          3,200        24,575           -22,425                -               -              _
14               -            "              "                                  -       12,500          6,750        19,250           -27,750           1,250                -         1,250
15               -                                           "                  -            -        11,750         11,750           -35,250           4,625                -         4,625
16               -                                                             -             -        11,500         11,500           -35,500          10,125          40,000         50,125
17               -            "              "                                 -             -        10,575         10,575           -36,425          17,750         148,000        165,750
18                                                                              -            -          8,550          8,550          -38,450          25,000         324,000        349,000
19               -                                                             -             -          5,000          5,000          -42,000                -        568,000        568,000
20               -                                                             -             -              -              -          -47,000                -        800,000        800,000
21               -            "              "-                                              -              -              -                                                                -
22               -
23               -            "              l                                               -              - _
24               -             '             "               "                 .             _              _
25               -             "             "               "                  -             -             -              -                 "               -               -             -        1!
26               -                           0                                  -            -              -              -                                 -               -             -
27               -                                                              _            _              _              _                 *.
28               _
29               -                                                              _            _              _              _
30               -      11,750               4         47,000                   _            -              -              -         -47,000



NEPAL
COMHIINITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAININO PROJECT
Comnunity Forestry Development
Leaf Fodder and Fue.wood Production - Private Planting
YEAR                  NUMBER OF                                                   LEAF   FODDER                                                            FUELWOOD
INCREMENTAL  CT                     Yr 5           Yr 6         Yr 7             Yr  8-30             Total           Yr 5          Yr 6         Yr 7            Yr 8-30        Total
INCREMENTAL   C1 -E  (5 TON)        (15 TON)   (30 TON)            (60 TON)              (TON)        (0.5m)        (1.5  )    (3.O             ( 6.Om    )      ( a
1                  43                               0             0             0                  0                   0              0            0            0                 0              0
2                  116                              0              .      ,        ,              ..
3                  189                              0              .            .                  .                   .              .
4                  262                              "              "            "                  "                    "             "             "           "                 "
5                  292                              ,,
6                   0                              215             "            "                  "                  215            22             ,,                                           22
7                                                  580           645            "                  "                1,225            58            65                                           123
8                   "                              945         1,740         1,290                                  3,975            95            174         129                "             398
9                   "                            1,310         2,835         3,480              2,580              10,205           131            284         348               258          1,021
10                   "                            1,460         3,930         5,670              9,540              20,600           146            393         567               954          2,060
11                   "                               0          4,380         7,860             20,880              33,120            0             438         786             2,0BB          3,312
12                                                   "           0            8,760             36,600              45,360                           0          876             3,660          4,536
13                   "                                            "              0              54,120              54,120                           "           0              5,412          5,412
04                   "                                            "s             " .                ..                  ...                          ..                             ..
15                   "                                           0 .             .                  ,
16                   "                               55           ,              ,                  ,                    0            0              .
17                                                                                                                                                    
18                   "                               "           "               "                  "                   "
19                                                                                                                                                    
20 9                                                 "           "               "                  "                                 "              """"
20
221                                  "               "           "               "                  "                                               """"
2 2
23
24                   00                                          0000005 
25                                                                                                                                                    
26                   "                               "           "               "                                      "             "              "
27                   "                               "           "               "                  "                   "             "              "
29                   "                               "           "               "                  "                   "             "              "            "                "             "
30                   0                               0           0               0              54,120              54,120            0              0            0             5,412         5,412



-45--                               ANNEX I
T.ble I
C                                           000CC  2                           0
!  'C12    12                               -,
4C.CCCCC C C  -    - - -                                       C
C        C .4      C    C C *4*lC0   CCCCC
C           C.CCCCC....,                                 C
C C 0                             4 C    C 0'                         C
a                                                      :
4   C   4   C                       0'
0CC C
11..,C=44C0=                          .-CCCfl  ...  C  C
C                                                                                      C
o    IoC C C 0 C                              a a a a a
o         4                            4 4 0 C                                    4
-   C 4   C                              C C C
C    - C                                                                C  =      C
01CC 4 C C C                              C 0 C C C
CI.  C 4 C C                                   C
C                                                                                        0
C C - 4 4              C C 4 C C C .--
CC4C0
C   C                           4
CC
I-00CC
12           I
-    C C C C C
I                                                                                   4
414140 C C C 0 C C C C 0 C C C
40( 04.4CC C CCC
C 4 4 C C CCCC4 CCC
.C =    - C
I2 2 2 - C C C C C C C C C
CCC                                                                   C
CC
CtOCCCC



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement
1.        Nepal has a well-established procurement system.  All government
procurement of goods and services is governed by the "Rules and Regulations
Concerning Fiscal Administration", published by the Office of Accounts Comp-
troller, Ministry of Finance.
2.        Present procurement procedure is:
(a) goods or shelf items amounting up to liRs 1,000 at a time,
by direct purchase from shops and markets through prudent
account;
(b)  goods amounting to between NRs 1,000 and NRs 5,000, by
quotations; and
(c) goods amounting to more than NRs 5,00C, by tender or compe-
titive bidding. If necessary, quotations from foreign
countries may be invited but local supplier would have 5%
preference.
3.        Construction of public buildings in general may be carried out either
by the concerned government office itself or through contracts in accordance
with the following rules and regulations:
(a)  construction work amounting to up to NRs 25,000 may be done
in accordance with approved cost estimates through quotations;
and
(b) construction work over NRs 25,000 may be done by inviting
tenders or through bidding.  Tender nolice for contract work
should be announced at least three times in national or
local newspapers. The time allowed foi submission of a tender
varies between 15 days and three months depending on the size
of the contract.



NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Development
Incremental Production of Leaf Fodder, Grass Fodder and Fuelwood
------------ Leaf Fodder --------- Grass Fodder --    ----------------- Fuelwood -------------------   Total
Year        PPF        PP       Total      Value           PF        Value          P9       PP9        Pi    Total       Value      Value
(ton)     (ton)      (ton)   (NRs '000)       (ton)   (NRs '000)       (m)       (m)       (m)   (m )       (NRs '000) (NRs '000)
1      -10,350        -      -10,350       -259           -         -             -           575      -        575        299          40
2      -24,840        -      -24,840       -621           -         -             -         3,105      -      3,105      1,615         994
3      -35,420        -      -35,420       -886           -         -             -         7,590      -      7,590      3,947       3,061
4      -42,090        -      -42,090    -1,052            -          -            -        14,030      -     14,030      7,296       6,244
5      -37,400        -      -37,400       -935           -         -             -        18,700      -     18,700      9,724       8,789
6      -26,470        215    -26,255       -656           -375      -5            -        22,440       22   22,462    11,680       11,019
7       -9,390      1,225     -8,165       -204         -1,762     -23            -        26,180      123   26,303    13,678       13,451
8       23,848      3,975     27,803        696         -4,800     -62            -        29,920      398   30,318    15,765       16,399
9       86,008    10,205      96,213      2,405        -10,125    -132            -        33,660   1,021   34,681    18,034        20,307
10      158,591    20,600    179,191       4,480        -17,625    -229            -        37,400   2,060   39,460    20,519        24,770
-                                                                                                                                        4_
11      220,094    33,120    253,214       6,330        -18,000    -234            -        41,140   3,312   44,452    23,115        29,211
12      264,  9    45,360    309,779       7,744        -19,387    -252            -        44,880   4,536   49,416    25,696        33,188
13      276,762    54,120    330,882       8,272        -22,425    -292            -        48,620   5,412   54,032    28,097        36,077
14        * "          "                                -27,750    -361          1,250      52,360      "     59,002    30,691       38,602
15                                                      -35,250    -458          4,625      56,100      "     66,137    34,391       42,205
16                     "          "                     -35,500    -462         50,125      59,840      "    115,377    59,996       67,806
17                     "          "                     -36,425    -474        165,750      79,390           250,552   130,287    138,085
18                                           "          -38,450    -500        349,000    112,625            467,037   242,859    250,631
19                     "          "          "          -42,000    -546        568,000    145,860            719,272   774,021    381,747
20                     "                                -47,000    -611        800,000    179,095       "    984,507   511,944    519,605
21         "           "          "                                               -        187,000           192,412   100,054    107,715
22          "                                                        'o ,,
23                                                                                            It " " -
24         "                                    ,,
25         "           "                                             " ""
26                                                         "
27""""     
28
29
30      276,762    54,120    330,882       8,272        -47,000    -61.           -        187,000   5,412  192,412   100,054    107,715    1-4



48
ANNEX 3
Table 2
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Derivation of Economic Price of Fuelwood
(1)  Heat calorie from 1 kg of Air-dried Fuelwood:            4,700 kcal /a
(2)  Heat calorie from 1 kg of Dried Cow Dung Cake:           2,400 kcal /a
(3)  Fuelwood and Cow Dung Cake Heat Calorie Ratio:           1.958
(4)  1 m3 of Air-dried fuelwood is equivalent to:               725 kg /b
(5)  1 m3 of fuelwood is equivalent to Dried Cow Dung
Cake of:  (725 kg x 1.958 = 1,420 kg)                    1,420 kg
(6)  Farmers use on an average 8 ton per ha of manure
on maize field, which increase yield (per ha) by about:
(15% of 1.5 ton/ha increase:  225 kg) /c                   225 kg
(7)  1,420 kg of Dried Cow Dung Cake is equivalent
to raw dung of:                                              5.68 ton
(8)  5.68 ton of raw manure increase maize yield
per ha by: (225 kg x 5.68/8 = 160)                         160 kg
(9)  160 kg of maize has an economic value of:              NRs 520
(Rs 3,253 /d x 160 kg = NRs 520)
(10)  The Economic Value of 1 m3 fuelwood is about:          NRs 520
/a   GOI, Report of the Energy Survey of India Committee, New Delhi,
1968.
/b   FAO, Yearbook of Forest Products, 1972.
/c   Estimates based on:  World Bank, Nepal Forestry Sector Review, (1952-NEP)
August 1973, p. 57.
/d   See Annex 3, Table 4.



-49 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Economic Price of Maize
(per ton)
Projected 1990 World Price (in 1979 value, US$)               168.9 /a
Adjustment for Quality (X)                                     80.0 /b
FOB Price, Adjusted                                           135.1
Transport and Handling (US$) /c
CIF Price, Uttar Pradesh (US$)
Internal Transport and Handling
From Uttar Pradesh to Terai (US$)                           27.0 /d
From Terai to Project Area (US$)                            54.0 /b
CIF Price, Project Area (US$)                                271.1
CIF Price, Project Area (NRs)                              3,253.0 /e
/a   Obtained from World Bank, Commodity Price Forecasts, May 1979.
Adjusted to 1979 constant prices.
/b   Based on the information provided in the Staff Appraisal Report
of the Second Rural Development Project: Mahakali Hills, 1979.
Ic   Includes costs of shipping, handling, marketing to potential
trading areas in Uttar Pradesh, India.
/d   Adjusted by the SCF.
/e   This price has been used as the value of maize produced since
additional costs of maize production in the Hills is negligible.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT ANI) TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Devei.opment
Derivation of Economic Price of Leal: Fodder and Grass Fodder
1.   4 kg of dry leaf fodder would increase milk production by:           1 liter
2.   16 kg of fresh leaf fodder (4 kg dry leaf fodder equivalent)
would increase milk production by:                                 1 liter
3.   400 kg of :fresh leaf fodder would increase milk
production by:                                                   25 liter
4.   1 ton of fresh leaf fodder (including unproductive use
40% and 20% waste) would increase milk production by:            25 liter
5.   Milk Price in project area, NRs per liter:                           1.11
6.   Value of 1 ton fresh leaf fodder based on milk value, NRs:          27.75
7.   Border price /a of 1 ton of fresh leaf fodder, NRs:                 25.0
8.   Border pric:e of 1 ton of grass fodder /b, NRs:                     13.0
/a   Standard conversion factor:  0.9.
/b   Total digestible nutrient (TDN) of grass folder is assumed to
be 50% of fresh leaf fodder.



NEPAL
COMMLNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPPIINT ANR TRAINING .-ROJFCT
Economic Costs and Benefit Streams
(NR, 1000)
NET
YEAR                           I N Y E S T M E N T       A N D      O P E R A T I N G         C O S T S                                                       I N C R E M E N T A L    B E N E F I T S                  BENEFITS
C   F  A  D              VILLAGE FORESTRY PROGRAM                TECHNICAL       FORMAL & INSERVICE  TRAINING
INVESTMENT      0 & M        INVESTMENT     0 & M                     ASSISTANCE                                            TOTAL           FLELWOOD       LFOD         FOAR   TOTAL
ErVESIVINT         0  & H           COST                           FODDER        FODDEN    BENEFIT       -- -
1            10,922        6,395           2,958          0                        9,045            8,824                341          38,485              299           -259          0           40                  -38,445
2             6,367        9,173           7,085          "                       15,428           17,196                500          55,749            1,615           -621                     994                  -54,645
3             3,187        9,694          11,424          "                       13,311            9,871                679          48,166            3,947           -886           "       3,061                  -45,105
4               0          9,455          15,781          "                        6,818            2,607                827          35,488            7,296          1,052                   6,244                  -29,244
5               "          9430           16.257                                   4,539            2,090                827          33.143            9,724           -935                   8,789                 -24,354
6                     "                     0          8,679                          0               0                               18,936           11,680           _656          -5      11,019                  - 7,917
7               "           "                                                                          '                   '     ~      '              13,678          -204          -23      13,451                 - 5,485
8                                                                                                                                                      1 15,765          696          -62     16,399                  - 2,537
9                '          .                              '                          "                                   ,,                           18,034          2,405          -132    20,307                    1,371
10               "           "              "              "                                                               "                            20,519         4,480          -229    24,770                     5,834
11               "              "            '             "                                                                                            23,115         6,330          -234    29,211                    10,275
12                     "                     "             "                                                     "                "                     25,696          7,744          -252    33,188                   14,252
13                                                                                                                          '                           28,097          8,272         -292    36,077                    17,141
14                           "               "'                                       "                "                                                30,691            "           .361    38,602                    19,666
15               "              "           "              "                                                                                            34.391                        -458    42,205                    23 269
16                                                                           " " " .                                                                    59,996            _462    67,806                                48,870
17               "                                                                                                                                     130,287                         -474   138,085                  119,149
18                                                                         " "                                                                         242,859                         -500   250,631                  231,695
19               "              "                                                                                                                      774,021                         -546   773,475                  754,539
20               "    _                                                                                                                                511.944                         -611   511,333                  492.397
21                                                                                                                                                     100.054            "              "    107,715                   88,779
22                                                                                                     "
23               "            "'                                                     **
24                '                                 .                         .. ..
25                                                                                                                                                            _         .                    _                          -
26       "            "       "                                                        e *                                 ,
27       *         
28               "           "               "             ",                                                                     ,,             ,,                                      , ,, S
29"                          """""
30               0          9,430            0          8,679                          0               0                  827          18,936          100,054          8,272          -611   107,715                    88,779
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN  16%



- 52 -                        ANNEX 4
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
(US$ M)
---  Disbursement -----------
Year and Semester                  During Semester              Cumulative
1980  1st                            -                          -
2nd a/                        0.5                       0.5
1981  1st                           1.0                        1.5
2nd                           1.5                       3.0
1982  1st                           2.0                       5.0
2nd                           2.0                       7.0
1983  1st                           2.5                       9.5
2nd                           2.5                      12.0
1984  1st                           1.5                      13.5
2nd                           1.0                      14.5
1985  1st                           1.0                      15.5
2nd                           0.9                      16.4
1986  1st b/                        0.6                      17.0
a/  Estimated effectiveness date August 29, 1930.
b/  Estimated completion date September 30, 1985.



ANNEX 5
- 53 -
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Pre-    Project Project Project Project Project
vffective- Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
ness -     2 3 4 1 2 3 411 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 34
VILLAGE FORESTRY PROGRAM
Nursery Establishment and
Raising Seedlings
Seedling Distribution                                     _____ __I
Planting
CFAD INFRASTRUCTURE
Office Building:
Preparation of Tenders                                  _ _..|
Construction                                                      -
Construction of Divisional Headquarters
Construction of Seed Stores
Vehicle Procurement
Equipment Procurement                                 ._                                               l
Establishment and Staffing of:                              _____._
CFAD and CFU                                                 .       -__                   __
MEU and MPU
TRAINING - UNIVERSITY
New Certificate Course:  Retaura
New Certificate Course:  Pokhara
Diploma Course:  Pokhara
Staff Appointments:                                       __________
Diploma Course Lecturers (Serving Officers)
Diploma Course Lecturers (New Graduates)                      _                                       4
Overseas Training: M.Sc. Courses
Staff Training                               L. L                                           *_
TRAINING - MOF TRAINING WING
Office Building:                                                         _    e__
Plans and Tenders                                                           I .._i___
Construction
Equipment and Vehicle Procurement
Training Officer Appointments
Inservice Training Courses



54 -                                                ANNEX 6
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ten Year Manpower Requirement Predictions - Diploma and Certificate Levels
Ministry of Forest
----------- Diploma -----------          --------- Certificate ---------
Employing Section                              Existing    Proposed    Deficit          Existing    Proposed    Deficit
Departmental and Territorial Staff                          62          119          57             540          815         275
Afforestation Office (CFAD)                                  6            8           2              26           26          -
Forest Research and Resources Survey                        13           29          16              33           38           5
National Park and Wildlife                                  13           28          15              20           45          25
Forest Products Development Board                            1            5           4              50          138          88
Chief District Officers                                      -            -           -              10          225         215
Timber and Fuelwood Corporations
of Nepal                                                   4            7           3               8          108         100
Ministry of Forests Training Wing                            -            3           3               -            5           5
Community Forestry (CFAD)                                    -           34          34               _           22          22
Community Forestry Headquarters (CFAD)                       1           12          11               -           -           -
Institute of Forestry                                        4           28          24               5            5          -
Integrated Rural Development Projects                        2           24          22               -          116         116
Silvicultural Research (ODA Project)                         2           10           8               _           27          27
Soil and Water Conservation                                  4          150         146               -          300         300
TOTALS                                               112          457         345             692        1,870       1,178
Add 1% to deficit figures (excluding
SWC) for private forestry                                                           4                                       12
Subtotal                                                                349                                    1,190
Add 10% to total deficit for
dropouts when calculating intake                                                   35                                      120
GRAND TOTAL                                          112          457         384              692       1,870       1,310



55                                                         ANNEX 7
Table 1
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Summary Pro ect Costs
(NRa 000)
----------         Project Year ----------         ---                 Total -----------
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5        Local      Foreign      Total        %
I. Project Organization -
Staff and Operating Costs
Buildings and Housing            6,871.0    5,189.0    2,947.0        -          -          10,504.9     4,502.1    15,007.0   30
Vehicles and Equipment           3,561.0    1,461.0       203.0       -          -             522.5     4,702.5     5,225.0   90
Nurseries and Plantations          449.0       392.0       18.0       -          -             773.1        85.9       859.0   10
Staff Costs                      3,735.8    4,425.0    4,425.0    4,425.0    4,425.0        21,435.8        -       21,435.8     -
Operating Costs                  2,285.0    3,809.0    3,902.0    3,386.0    3,658.0        15,336.0     1,704.0    17,040.0   10
Vehicles and Equipment
Operating Costs                  543.0    1,086.0    1,296.0    1,296.0    1,296.0         1,103.4     4,413.6     5,517.0   80
Building Maintenance               456.0       684.0      912.0    1,140.0    1,140.0        4,332.0        -        4,332.0     -
Forest Officer Training
Courses                        4,100.0    4,000.0        -          -          -              -        8,100.0     8,100.0  100
Subtotal               22,000.8   21,046.0   13,703.0  10,247.0   10,519.0        54,007.7    23,508.1    77,515.8
II. Village Forestry Program
PF                                 324.0      881.0    1,862.0    3,156.0    3,496.0         8,747.1       971.9     9,719.0   10
PPF                                582.0       926.0    1,169.0    1,225.0      932.0        4,350.6       483.4     4,834.0   10
PP                                  25.0        30.0       41.0       46.0       -             127.8        14.2       142.0   10
Nursery and Forest
Development                    2,057.0    5,320.0    8,467.0  11,513.0  11,993.0          35,415.0     3,935.0   39,350.0   10
Subtotal                2,988.0    7,157.0  11,539.0  15,940.0   16,421.0         48,640.5      5,404.5   54,045.0
III. Technical Assistance -
CFAD Support and Training
Formal Training                  2,760.0    4,560.0    3,120.0       600.0       -             552.0    10,488.0   11,040.0   95
Inservice Training                 870.0    2,760.0    2,010.0       120.0      120.0          294.0     5,586,0     5,880.0   95
CFAD Stove Unit                     14.0        14.0       14.0       -          -               2.1        39.9        42.0   95
CFAD Support                     3,484.0    4,152.0    4,224.0    2,736.0    1,651.0         3,249.4    12,997,6    16,247.0   80
Research                           594.0    1,188.0    1,188.0       594.0       -             178.2    3i385.8      3,564.0   95
Associate Experts                1,337.0    2,772.0    2,772.0    2,772.0    2,772.0           621.2   11,803,8    12 425.0   95
Subtotal                9,059.0   15,446.0   13,328.0    6,822.0    4,543.0        4,896.9    44,301.1    49,198.0
IV. Forestry Training
Buildings and Housing            6,205.0    9,901.0    4,815.0        -          -         14,644.7      6,276.3    20,921.0   30
Vehicles and Equipment           1,235.0    3,308.0    1,109.0        50.0       -             570.2     A,131.8     5,702.0   90
Staff Coats                        158.4      473.4       748.8      941.4      970.2       3,292.2         -        3,292.2
Vehicles and Equipment
Operating Costs                  341.0      450.0       450.0      450.0      450.0          428.2     1,712.8     2,141.0   80
Building Maintenance                -           50.0      231.0      381.0      381.0        1,043.0        -        1,043.0     -
Office Supply                       60.0       170.0      224.0      264.0      294.0          910.8       101.2     1,012.0   10
In-Country Training                862.0      846.0       906.0      924.0    1,058.0        4,596.0        -        4,596.0     -
Overseas Training                  371.0    2,583.0    2,225.0       640.0       -              -        5'819.0     5,819.0  100
Subtotal                9,232.4  17,781.4  10,708.8    3,650.4    3,153.2         25,485.1    19,041.1'   44,526.2
V. Improved Stove Program
Stove Construction                  11.0       49.0       134.0      301.0      551.0        1,046.0        -        1,046.0     -
Training                            12.0        24.0       24.0       12.0       -              -           72.0        72.0  100
Vehicles and Equipment              -          250.0       -          -          -              25.0       225.0       250.0   90
Staff Costs                         54.0        93.0      131.0      150.0      150.0          578.0        -          578.0     -
Operating Costs                     75.0       110.0      200.0      200.0      250.0          167.0       668.0       835.0   80
Research and Development            24.0        24.0       24.0       24.0       24.0          120.0        -          120.0     -
Subtotal                  176.0      550.0       513.0      687.0      975.0       1,936.0        965.0     2,901.0
VI. Midterm Review and
Feasibility Studies
Midterm Review                      -          252.0      624.0       -          -              -          876.0       876.0  100
Fuelwood - Basic Survey             -          444.0       -          -          -             444.0        -          444.0     -
Fuelwood - Feasibility Study        -           -       1,128.0       -          -             112.8     1,015.2     1,128.0    90
High Altitude Forest
Exploitation Study                -          -          756.0       -          -              -          756.0       756.0  100
Subtotal                   -         696.0    2,508.0                                556.8      2,647.2     3,204.0
Total Base Cost                 43,456.2   62,676.4   52,299.8   37,346.4   35,611.2       135,523.0   95,867.0   231,390.0
Physical Contingencies       1,698.0    2,342.2    2,059.6    1,776.2    1,849.3         8,098.3     1,627.0     9,725,3
Price Contingencies          2,393.2   10,077.9   13,752.9  13,536.4   16,520.1         36,909.3    19,371.2    56,280.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST              47,547.4   75,096.5   68,112.3   52,659.0   53,980.6       180,530.6   116,865.2   297,395.8



- 56 -                                                       ANNEX 7
Table 2
Page 1
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AID TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Development
Proiect Organization, Staffl anod Other Operating Costs
tNRs '000)
Unit      __YearI -         __Year 2 -          __ Year                Y -_year4-         - Year 5          --Total --
Cost     No.    Cost        No.    Coat         No.    Ccst        No.    Cost         No.    Cost         No.    Cost
I.  INCRMENTAL STAFF COST
A. Head, CFAD                           40.5        1     40.5         1     40.5         1      40.5         1      40.5         1      40.5         1      202.5
B. Community Forestry Unit
Unit Head                        28.9        1      28.9        1      28.9         1     28.9          1     26.9          1     28.9         1      144.5
Sr. Forest Officer (East)        20.9        1      20.9        1     20.9          1     20.9          1     20.9         1      20.9         1      104.5
Sr. Forest Officer (Central)  20.9           1      20.9        1     20.9          1     20.9         1      20.9         1      20.9         1      104.5
Sr. Forest Officer (West)        20.9        1      20.9        1     20.9          1     20.9          1     20.9         1      20.9         1      104.5
Sr. Forest Officer (Far West) 20.9           1     20.9         1     20.9          1     20.9         1      20.9         1      20.9         1      104.5
Subtotal (B)                              T     112.         T              112.5  5    112.5        5    112.5          T    112.5          5      562.5
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit Head                        28.9        1      28.9        1     28.9          1     28.9          1     28.9         1      28.9         1      144.5
Assistant to Head                20.9        1      20.9        1     20.9          1     22.9          1     20.9         1      20.9         1      104.5
Enumerators/Surveyors             9.6        4      38.4        4     38.4          4     3B.4         4      38.4         4      38.4         4      192.0
Typist                            6.2        2      12.4        2     12.4          2     12.4          2     12.4         2      12.4         2       62.0
Enumerators/part time             3.2       16     51.2        16     51.2        16      51.2        16      51.2        16      51.2        16      256.0
(4 months)
Subtotal (C)                              24    151.8       24    151.8         24    151.8         24    151.8         24    151.8         24      759.0
D. Motivation and Publicity Unit
Unit Head                        28.9        1      28.9        1     28.9          1     25.9         1      28.9         1      28.9         1      144.5
Assistant to Head                2D.9        1     20.9         1     20.9         1      20.9         1      20.9         1      20.9         1      104.5
Subtotal (D)                               T     49.8        2      49.8         2      4S . T2             49.8         2      49.8         2     249.0
E. Accounts
Senior Accountant                18.9        1      18.9        1     18.9          1     13.9         1      18.9         1      18.9         1       94.5
Accountant                       12.6        2      25.2        2     25.2          2     25.2          2     25.2         2      25.2         2      126.0
Sub-accountant                    8.6        2     17.2        4      34.4         4      3X.4         4      34.4         4      34.4         4      154.8
Subtotal (E)                              5      61.3        7      78.5         7      73.5         7      78.5         7      78.5         7      375.3
P. Administration
Unit Head                        18.9        1      18.9        1     18.9          1     13.9          1     18.9         1      18.9         1       94.5
Senior Clerk                     12.6        1     12.6         1     12.6          1     1Z.6         1      12.6         1      12.6         1       63.0
Store Keepers                    12.6        1     12.6         1     12.6          1     IZ.6         1      12.6         1      12.6         1       63.0
Clerks                            8.6        -        -         1      8.6          1       3.6         1      8.6         1       8.6         1       34.4
Typists                           6.2        2      12.4        3     18.6          3     13.6         3      18.6         3      18.6         3       86.8
Subtotal (F)                                     56.5        7      71.3         7      71.3         7      1.3          7      7T13         7     317
G. Field Divisional Organization
DFO                              28.9        2     57.8         2     57.8         2      5 1.8        2      57.8         2      57.8         2      289.0
AO                               16.4       17    278.8        17    278.8        17    278.8         17    278.8         17    278.8         17   1,394.0
Community Rangers                16.4       17    278.8        17    278.8        17    278.8         17    278.8         17    278.8         17   1,394.0
Administration Foresters         16.4       17    278.8        17    278.8        17    27t.8         17    278.8         17    278.8         17   1,394.0
Community Foresters              16.4       54    865.6       88  1,443.2         88  1,44:1.2        88  1,443.2         88  1,443.2         88   6,658.4
Nurserymen                        9.6       17    163.2       17    163.2         17    1631.2        17    163.2         17    163.2         17      816.0
Senior Clerks                    12.6       17    214.2       17    214.2         17    214,.2        17    214.2         17    214.2         17   1,071.0
Clerks                            8.6       17    146.2        17    146.2        17    146.2         17    146.2         17    146.2         17      731.0
Drivers                           7.9        5     39.5         5     39-5         5      3S.5         5      39.5         5      39.5         5      197.5
Subtotal (G)                            163  2,342.9       197  2,900.5        197  2,900.5        197  2,900.5        197  2,900.5        197  13,944.9
H. Research
Head of Unit                     40.5        1     40.5         1     40.5          1     4C.5          1     40.5         1      40.5         1      202.5
Research Foresters               28.9        1      28.9        3     86.7          3     86.7         3      86.7         3      86.7         3      375.7
Research Foresters               20.9        1      20.9        3     62.7          3     62.7         3      62.7         3      62.7         3      271.7
Foresters                        16.4       12    196.8       12    196.8         12    196.8         12    196.8         12    196.8         12      984.0
Nurserymen                        9.6        2     19.2         2     19.2          2     19.2         2      19.2         2      19.2         2       96.0
Clerk typist                      6.2        3      18.6        3     18.6          3     18.6          3     18.6         3      18.6         3       93.0
Drivers                           7.9        2      15.8        2     15.8          2     15.8         2      15.8         2      15.8         2       79.0
Watchmen and Peon                 4.7        3      14.1        3     14.1          3     14.1         3      14.1         3      14.1         3       70.5
Subtotal (H)                              25    5-4.8       29    454.4         29    754.4        7-    454.4          T2    454.4         29   2,172.4
Subtotal Staff Cost (A-H)                    238  3,170.1       283  3,859.3        286  3,859.3       286  3,859.3        286  3,859.3        286  18,607.3



-57- -_
Table 2
Page  2
Unit      -- Year 1-          --Year2- 2            Year3 -          _Year4-            -- Year   -        --Total --
Cost      No.    Cost         No.    COat        No.    Cost         No.    Cost        No.    Cost         No.    Coot
II. EXISTING STAFF (PROJECT
ALLOWANCE)
A. Afforestation Division
Head, Afforestation Unit        3.9         1        3.9        1       3.9        1        3.9       1        3.9        1        3.9       1        19.5
Conservators                    2.8         3        8.4       3        8.4        3        8.4       3        8.4        3       8.4        3        42.0
Technicians                      .7         5        3.5        5       3.5        5        3.5       5        3.5        5       3.5        5        17.5
Subtotal (A)                              9       15.8               158         9                  9       15.8       9       15.                 -79.0
B. Field Division Organization
Division Headquarters -
Technical
DFO                           3.9        15      58.5       15       58.5       15      58.5       15       58.5       15      58.5       15       292.5
Nurserymen                    1.9        17      32.3       17       32.3       17      32.3       17       32.3       17      32.3       17       161.5
Subtotal (B)                          32       90.8       32       90.8      32       90.8       32       90.8      32       90.8       32      454.0
C. Divisional Administration
Accountants                     2.5        17       42.5      17       42.5       17      42.5       17       42.5       17      42.5       17       212.5
Clerks                          1.7        17       28.9       17      28.9       17       28.9      17       28.9       17      28.9       17       144.5
Junior Clerks                   1.7       102     173.4      102      173.4      102     173.4      102      173.4      102     173.4      102       867.0
Lower Clerks                    1.1        17       18.7      17       18.7       17      18.7       17       18.7       17      18.7       17        93.5
Peons                            .9       119     107.1      119      107.1      119     107.1      119      107.1     119      107.1      119       535.5
Subtotal (C)                            72      370.6      272      370.6      72      370.6      272      370.6     272      370.6      272    1,853.0
D. Administration and Logistics
Senior Accountant               2.5         1        2.5       1        2.5        1        2.5       1        2.5        1       2.5        1        12.5
Accountants                     2.5         2        5.0       2        5.0        2        5.0       2        5.0        2       5.0        2        25.0
Senior Clerks                   2.5         1        2.5       1        2.5        1       2.5        1        2.5        1       2.5        1        12.5
Clerks                          1.7         4        6.8       4        6.8        4        6.8       4        6.8        4       6.8        4        34.0
Senior typists                  1.7         1        1.7       1        1.7        1       1.7        1        1.7        1       1.7        1         8.5
Typists                         1.2         1        1.2       1        1.2        1        1.2       1        1.2        1       1.2        1         6.0
Gardner                         1.1         1        1.1       1        1.1        1        1.1       1        1.1        1       1.1        1         5.5
Peons                            .9         6       5.4        6        5.4        6       5.4        6        5.4        6       5.4        6        27.0
Subtotal (D)                             17      26.2       17       26.2       7        62        17       26.2      17       26.2       17       131.0
E. Service Units
Mechanics                       3.3         1        3.3        1       3.3        1        3.3       1        3.3        1       3.3        1        16.5
Heavy Machine Operators         1.9         2        3.8       2        3.8        2        3.8       2        3.8        2       3.8        2        19.0
Driver/Mechanics                1.9         6       11.4       6       11.4        6       11.4       6       11.4        6      11.4        6        57.0
Drivers                         1.6         3       4.8        3        4.8        3       4.8        3        4.8        3       4.8        3        24.0
Guards                          1.3        30       39.0      30       39.0       30      39.0       30       39.0       30      39.0       30       195.0
Subtotal (E)                            42       62.3       42       62.3      42       62.3       42       62.3      42       62.3       42      311.5
Subtotal Existing Staff
(Project Allowance) (A-E)                     372       565.7    372      565.7      372     565.7      372      565.7      372     565.7      372    2.828.5
TOTAL 1. AND II.                                610    3,735.8    655   4,425.0        658   4,425.0       658   4,425.0      658   4,425.0      658   21,435.8
III.  OTHER OPERATING COSTS
A.  Vehicle Expense  2/
Vehicles                                            265.0             790.0            1,000.0             1,000.0            1,000.0              4,055.0
Horses                                               18.0              36.0               36.0                36.0               36.0                162.20
Subtotal (A)                                     230826.0                            1,036.0            1,036.0             1,036.0             4,217.0
B.  Office Supply                                         565.0             681.0               774.0              758.C               758.0             3,536.0
C.  Buildings                                             456.0             684.0               912.0            1,140.0             1,140.0             4,332.0
D. Motivation and Education                             1,000.0           2,000.0             2,000.0            1,500.0             1,500.0             8,000.0
E. Surveys                                                 40.0              40.0                40.0               40.0                40.0               200.0
F. Erosion Control                                        680.0           1.088.0             1.088.0            1,088.0            1.360.0               304.
Subtotal Other Operating Costa
(A-F)                                                3.024.0            5.319.0            5,850.0             5.562.0            5.834.0             25.589.0
IV.  Research Operating Expenses
A. Vehicle Expenses  a!                                   220.0              220.0              220.0              220.0               220.0             1,100.0
B. Equipment Cost.                                         40.0              40.0 400.0                             40.0                40.0               200.0
Subtotal Research Operating Expenses                      260.0             260.0               260.0              260.0               260.0             1,300.0
TOTAL III. AND IV.                                      3.284.0           5,579.0             6.110.0            5.822.0             6,094.0            26,.89.0
a/  Estimated cost per km: CarseRs 2; 4-wheel Drive Vehicles, Rs 4; Trucks, Rs 3; Motorcycles, Rs 1.



-  58                                                      ANNEX 7
Table 3
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Development
Investment Costs - CFAD, Divisional Field Offices and Research Components
(NRs '000)
Unit       - Year 1 -       - Year2-          - Year 3 -                     Total
Cost       No.   Cost       No.   Cost        No.   Cost        Total        Cost
I.  CFAD HEADQUARTERS IN YATEMANDU
A. Buildings a/
CFAD Offices                      630        1      258              207               165          1           630
Seed Store                        110        1     110         1     110        1      110          3           330
Subtotal                                        368               317               275                      960
B. Vehicles
4-wheel drive                     250        1      250                                             1           250
Sedan                              80        2     160         2     160                            4           320
Utility Bus                       120        1      120        1     120                            2           240
Subtotal                                        530               280                                        810
C.  Office Equipment                                                         30                32                       62
D. Radio Equipment
Base Station                       96        1       96                                             1             96
Substation                         60       15      900                                            15           900
Field Units                         6       64      384                                            64           384
Subtotal                                      1,380                                                        1,380
II. FOREST DIVISIONS
A. Buildings a/
FD Offices                        100        5     500         5     500        3      300         13         1,300
DFO Offices                       100        5      500        5     500        3      300         13         1,300
AO Quarters                        40       15      600      15      600        9      360         39         1,560
Other Offices and Quarters b/  212           2     424         1     212        1      212          4           848
Guest Houses                      120        4     480         1     120        2      240          7           840
Ranger Offices and Quarters    420           7   2,940         7                3   1,260          17         7,140
Subtotal                                      5,444             4,872            2,672                    12,988
B. Vehicles and Horses
4-wheel drive                     250        2     500         3     750                            5         1,250
Horses                              6        6       36        6      36                           12             72
Subtotal                                        536               786                                      1,322
C.  Office Equipment                                      105               120                31                      256
0.  Forestry Equipment                                    210               245               140                      595
E.  Purchase of Land
Kathmandu                       1,500/ha            150                                                         150
6 Forest Divisions                 80/ha           240                                                          240
9 Forest Divisions                 60/ha           270                                                          270
Subtotal                                        660                                                          660
F. Nurseries
17 Divisional Nurseries            14.1      7       99      10      141                           17           240
51 Range Nurseries                 11.2    30      336       21      235                           51           571
Subtotal                                        435               376                                        811
G. Provenance Trials
Planting and Replanting             0.6/ha 15         9       18      11       18       12         51             32
Fencing                             0.3/m  15         5      18        5       18        6         51            16
Subtotal                                         14                16               18                        48
SUBTOTAL for CFAD and Forest Divisions                  9,682             7,042            3,168                    19,892
III.  RESEARCH
A.  Buildings a/                         399        1     399                                              1           399
B. Vehicles
4-wheel drive with trailer        300        1     300                                              1           300
Motorcycles                        50        8      4C1                                             8           400
Subtotal                                        7-JG                                                         700
C.  Office Equipment                                      100                                                          100
SUBTOTAL for Research                                   1,199                                                        1,199
IV.  FOREST OFFICER TRAINING COURSES          324       25   4,100             d,000                           25         8,100
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                                      14,981            1],042             3,168                   29,191
a/  Building costs estimated at NRs 1,500 per m 2
b/ Assumed smaller size buildings (about 2/3 of regular ones) needed fcr 4 divisions of Ilam, Kathmandu, Trisuli and
Mahakali.



NEPAL
COtMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Development
Village Forestry Program - Nursery Overhead Coats
(NRs '000)
Unit       -- Year 1 -         -- Year 2 -         -- Year 3 -         -- Year 4 -         -- Year 5 -         -- Total
Cost/ha      No.    Cost         No.    Cost         No.    Cost         No.    Cost         No.    Cost             Cost
I. Panchayat Forest
Nursery Material                   0.058      1,175      68       2,025    117        3,550       206     5,000       290        -       -                681
Labor                              0.098      1,175    115        2,025    198        3,550       348      5,000      490        -       -              1,151
Pitting                            0.285         250      71        925    264        2,025       577     3,550   1,012    5,000   1,425                3,349
Planting                           0.279         250      70         925    258       2,025       565      3,550      990    5,000   1,395              3,278
Blanking                           0.084        -        -           250     21          925       78      2,025      170    3,550       298              567
Weeding                            0.072         -        -          250      18         925       67      2,025      146    3,550       256              487
Fire Breaks                        0.018         -        -          250       5       1,175       21      3,200       58    6,750       122              206
Subtotal                                              324                 881                1,862                3,156              3,496            9,719
II. Panchayat Protected
Forest
Nursery Material                   0.006    15,525        93       9,775      59       9,775       59      2,325       14        -                        225
Labor                              0.010    15,525    155         9,775       98       9,775       98      2,325       23        -                        374
Pitting                            0.030      5,750    173         9,775    293        9,775      293      9,775      293    2,325        70            1,122
Planting                           0.028      5,750    161         9,775    274        9,775      274      9,775      274    2,325        65            1,048
Blanking                           0.009        -         -        5,750      52       9,775       88      9,775       88    9,775        88              316
Weeding                            0.008        -         _        5,750      46       9,775       78      9,775       78    9,775         78             280
Fire Breaks                        0.018        -         -        5,750    104       15,525      279    25,300       455   35,075       631            1.469
Subtotal                                              582                 926                1,169               1,225                 932            4,834
III. Private Planting
Nursery  Material                  0.058         159       9         189      11         262       15        292       17        -        -                52
Labor                              0.098         159      16         189      19         262       26        292       29                 -                90
Subtotal                                                25                 30                    41                  46                 _               142
TOTAL COST                                                 931               1,837                3,072               4,427              4,428           14,695
T' -4



NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Development
Nursery and Forestry Development Cost
Unit             - Year 1 --    -       Year 2 -       - -Year 3 --               Year 4               Year 5 -           Total
Cost             No.    Cost          No.    Cost          No.      Cost        No.    Cost         No.    Cost           Cost
A. Material (Polythene Pots) a/            3.7              50    185            85    315            85      315            85    315           -         _         1,130
B.  Unskilled Labor b/                0.009/manday    20,000    180          34,000    306        34,000      306       34,000    306           _          _         1,098
C.  Skilled Labor:
Masonry c/                                         2,500    300        4,250    510         4,250       510        4,250    510           -         _         1,830 g
Water Supply                   0.0125/manday         800      10        1,360      17        1,360       17        1,360      17          _         _             61
D.  Tending, Fencing and                                           317                1,296                 2,633                3,868          -       4,751       12,865
Demarcation d/
E.  Tools e/                                                        15                   41                    66                   92           -         102         316
F.  Forest Foreman                         3.0             100    300           270    810           440   1,320           610  1,830            680    2,040        6.300
G. Fnrest Watchmen                         2.5             300    750           810  2,025         1,320   3.300         1,830  4.575         2,040    5,1001575
TOTAL                                                        2,057               5,320                 8,467               11,513                  11,993      39,350
a/  Polythene pots requirements are estimated at 25,000 pots per panchayat.
b/  Labor requirement of 200 man days per nursery consists of:  terracing, 40 man days;  walls, 100 man days at 4 man days
required per m; shed, 30 man days; water supply, 30 man days.
cl Masonry wall requirement per nursery is assumed to be 25 m at 120 NRsjm.                                                                                             X x
d/  See Project File, Item 15.
e/  Cost of hoes and other minor tools per panchayat is estimated at NRs 300 per annum.



NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Development
Improved Stoves - Investment and Operating Costs
(NRs '000)
Unit       - Year I --         - Year 2 --         - Year 3--           - Year 4--          - Year 5--          --Total --
Cost       No.    Cost         No.    Cost         No.    Cost         No.    Cost          No.    Cost         No.    Cost
I. Investment
Stove Construction a/                  .07        150       11        705       49       1,920    134        4,300    301         7,875    551       14,950   1,046
Training for Promoters                    6         2       12          4       24            4      24           2      12                               12       72
4-wheel Drive Vehicles                  250                              1     250                                                                         1      250
Subtotal                                                  23                 323                 158                  313                 551                 1,368
II.  Operating - Maintenance
Staff Salaries:
Head of Unit                           29         1       29          1       29            1     29            1      29            1     29            1      145
Promoters 1                            9.6       2       19          6       58          10      96           12    115           12    115            12      403
Typist                                  6         1        6          1        6            1       6           1       6            1      6            1       30
Subtotal                                                54                  93                 131                 150                  150                  578
Operating Expenses                                          75                  110                 200                 200                  250                  835
Research and Development                                    24                   24                  24                  24                   24                  120
Subtotal                                                 153                 227                 355                  374                 424                1 '33
TOTAL                                                      176.                550                 513                  687                 975                2,901
a/ Phasing assumed: 3 stoves in Year 1; 9 stoves in Year 2; 18 stoves in Year 3; 35 stoves in Year 4; and 50 stoves in Year 5 per panchayat.
b/ The number of promoters will be reviewed before the final report is issued.
: tO



- 62-
ANNEX 7
Table 7
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TIAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Train:a&
Staff and Other Operating (Costs
(NRs '0002
Unit      - Year I _-         - Year 2           - Year 3 --         - Year 4 --        _ Year 5 --        -- Totel --
Cost      No.    Cost         No.    Cost        No.    Cost         No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost
I. STAFF COSTS
A. Tribhu4an Univer.i5x -
TCertificate Course)
Lecturers                         18.0                            4       72.0       10     180.0       17       306.0      17      306.0      17      864.0
Administrative Officers           18.0         1       18.0       1       18.0        1      18.0        1        18.0       1       18.0       1        90.0
Burssrs                           18.0         1       18.0       1       18.0        1      18.0        1        18.0       1       18.0       1        90.0
Matrons                           18.0                             1      18.0        1      18.0        2        36.0       2       36.0       2       108.0
Clerks                             9.0         1        9.0        1       9.0        1        9.0       2        18.0       2       18.0       2        63.0
Typists                            9.0         1        9.0       2       18.0        3      27.0        4        36.0       4       36.0       4       126.0
Technical Staff                    9.0                            1        9.0        1       9.0        1         9.0       1        9.0       1        36.0
Stovemen                           9.0                            1        9.0        1       980        2        18.0       2       18.0       2        54.0
Cooks                              3.6                            1        3.6        2        7.2       3        10.8       5       18.0       5        39.6
Cleaners                           3.6                             1       3.6        3      L08        5        18.0       8       28.8       6        61.2
Watchmen                           3.6                             1       3.6        1        3.6       2         7.2       3       10.8       3        25.2
Gardners                           3.6                            1        3.6        1       3.6        1         3.6       2        7.2       2        18.0
Drivers                            3.6         2        7.2        2       7.2        2        7.2       2         7.2       2         7.2      2        36.0
Peons                              3.6                            1        3.6        1       3.6        2         7.2       2        7.2       2        21.6
Subtotal (A)                                          =T               196.2              32-40               3.=0                 38.2            1,632.6
B. Tribhuvan University -
(Diploma Courre)
Lecturers                         18.0                            7      126.0       13     234.0       13       234.0      13      234.0      13       828.0
Matron                            18.0                                                1      18.0        1        18.0       1       18.0       1        54.0
Clerks                             9.0                                                1       9.0        1         9.0       1        9.0       1        27.0
Librarians                         9.0                                                1       9.2        1         9.0       1        9.0       1        27.0
Cooks                              3.6                                                1       3.6        2         7.2       3       10.8       3        21.6
Drivers                            3.6                            3       10.8        3      10.3        3        10.8       3       10.8       3        43.2
Subtotal (B)                                                           136.8              284.                 288.0               ,1060.8
Subtotal Tribhuvan University
(A + B)                                             61.2              333.0               608.'.              801.0               829.8            2.633.4
C. MOF Training Wing
Training Officers                 18.0         3      54.0        3       54.0        3      54.0        3        54.0       3       54.0       3       270.0
Training Technicians               9.0         2       18.0       2       18.0        2      18.0        2        18.0       2       18.0       2        90.0
Clerks                             9.0         1        9.0       2       18.0        2      18.0        2        18.0       2       18.0       2        81.0
S toreren                          9.0         1        9.0       1        9.0        1       9.(1       1         9.0       1        9.0       1        45.0
Printers                           9.0                            1        9.0        1       9.0        1         9.0       1        9.0       1        36.0
Watchmen                           3.6                             2       7.2        2        7.i       2         7.2       2         7.2      2        28.8
Cleaners                           3.6                            2        7.2        2        7.i       2         7.2       2        7.2       2        28.8
Drivers                            3.6         2        7.2       5       18.0        5      18.C        5        18.0       5       18.0       5        79.2
Subtutal (C)                                        9772               140.4              140.4                140.4              140.4              658.8
Total Training (A 4 B + C)                            158.4              473.4              748.8                941.4              970.2             3.292.2
II. OThER OPERATING COSTS
A. Tribhuvan University -
Vehicle Running Expenses a/
Cars                                                  30.0                30.0               30.0                 30.0               30.0       1       150.0
4-wheel drive vehicles                                                   100.0              100.0                100.0              100.0       2       400.0
Trucks                                                160.0              160.0              160.0                160.0              160.0       4       800.0
Motorcycles                                                              299.0                9.0                  9.0                9.0       2        36.0
Subtotal                                           190.0               299.0              299.0                299.0              299.0            1,386.0
Building MaIntenance                                                      50.0              150.0                300.0              300.0               800.0
Office Supplies                                        10.0               40.0               80.0                120.0              150.0              400.0
Subtotal                                            10.0                90.0              230.0               420.0               450.0            1,200.0
University Operating Costs (A)                        200.0              389.0              529.0                719.0              749.0             2,586.0
B. MOF Training Wing
Vehicle Running Espenses s/
Cars                                                   40.0               40.0               40.0                 40.0               40.0               200.0
4-wheel drive vehicles                                 96.0               96.0               96.0                 96.0               96.0               480.0
Trucks                                                 15.0               15.0               15.0                 15.0               15.0                75.0
Subtotal                                           151.0               151.0 C150                              151.0              151.0               755.0
Building Maintenance                                                                         81.0                 81.0               81.0               243.0
Office Supplies                                        50.0              130.0              144.0                144.0              144.0               612.0
Subtotal                                             50.0              130.0              225.0                225.0              225.0               855.0
MFTW Operating Costs (B)                              201.0              281.0              376.0                376.0              376.0             1.610.0
Tota1 Operating Costs (A + B)                        401.0               670.0              905.0              1.095.0            1,125.0             4,196.0
a E istimated costs per kn:  Cars, Rs 2; 4..wheel drive vehicles, Rs 4; Trucks, Rs 3; Motorcycles, Rs 1.



-63-                                                         ANEX 7
Table 8
NEPAL
COlMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Training
Building, Housing, Vehicles *nd Equipment Costs
(BIts '000)
Unit       - Year I--          - Year 2 --         - Year 3             - Year 4--          -_Total--
Cost       No.    Cost         No.    Cost         No.    Cost          No.    Cost         No.    Cost
BI. BUILDINGS AND HOUSING a/
A. Tribhuvan University -
He tauran C amPus
Auditorium                              675        1       300                 375                                                  1       675
Hostel                                1,500        1       750                  750                                                  1    1,500
Staff Houses                             88        5       440                 440                                                 10       880
Bachelor Quarters                         2        5        10                  10                                                 10        20
Subtotal - Hetaura (A)                                 1,500               1,575                                                        3,075
b. Pokhara Campus
Senior Staff Houses                      88       10       880        22    1,936           6       528                            38    3,344
Junior Staff Houses                      20        6       120         3        60          2       40                             11       220
Bachelor Quarters                         2                            2         4          8        16                            10        20
Teaching Complex                      5,925        1    1,000                3,000               1,925                              1    5,925
Hostel                                4,950        1    1,000                2,000               1,950                              1    4,950
Site Development
Water                                                     50                                                                               50
Electricity                                              340                                                                              340
Roads                                                    105                                                                              105
Nursery or amenities                                        I0                                                                               10
Subtotal - Pokhara (B)                                 3,505               7,000               4,459                                  14,964
Total (A + B)                                              5,005               8,575                4,459                                  18,039
Cost of Supervision (81-)                                  400                 686                  356                                   1.442
Total University Building                                  5,405               9,261                4,815                                  19,481
C. MOF Training Wing
Office Building (Kathmandu)             890        1       400                 490                                                  1       890
Hostel/Classroom  (Chautara)            450        1       350                  100                                                 1       450
Houses (Chautara)                        50        1        50          1        50                                                 2       100
Subtotal MFTW Building                                   800                                                                            1,440
Total Building (A t B + C)                                 6.205               9.901               4.815                                   20.921
11. VEHICLES
A. Tribhuvan University
Cars                                    100        1       100                                                                      1       100
4-wheel Drive Vehicles                  250                             2      500                                                  2       500
Trucks                                  190        2       380          2      380                                                  4       760
Motorcycles                              16                             2        32                                                 2        32
Minitractors                              8                             2        16                                                 2         16
Subtotal - University (A)                                480                 928                                                        1,408
B. MOF Training Wing
Cars                                    100        1       100          1      100                                                  2       200
4-wheel Drive Vehicles                  250        1       250          1      250                                                  2       500
Trucks                                  180        1       180                                                                      1       180
Subtotal - MFTW (B)                                      530                 350                                                          880
Total Vehicles (A + B)                                     1,010               1,278                                                        2,288
Ill. EQUIPMENT
A. Tribhuvan University -
Hetaura Campus
Hostel Furniture                                                                 34                                                          34
Teaching Furniture                                                               20                                                          20
Scientific and Office Equipment                                                100                  200                50                   350
B. Pokhara Campus
hostel Furniture                                                                 50                                                          50
Teaching Furniture                                                             196                  100                                     296
Scientific and Office Equipment                                              1.400                  739                                   1.439
Total University Equipment (A + B)                                             1,800                1,039                50                 2,889
C. MOF Training Wing
Furniture                                                                       61                   70                                     131
Tools and Equipmient                                       225                 169                   _                                      394
Subtotal MFTW Equipment (C)                              225                 30                                                             5
Total Esuitment (A + B + C)                                  225               2,030                1,109                50                 3.414
a/  Building Wosts estimated at 1,500 NRs per a



NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Community Forestry Training
Trinin      t Costs
Unit       - Year I--          -Year 2 --           - Year 3--          - Year 4--           - Year 5 --          --- Total ---
Cost       No.    Cost         No.    Cost          No.    Cost         No.    Cost          No.    Cost          No.      Costs
I. TRAINING COURSES
A.  Tribhuvan University
Certificate - Stipend            1.440/yr.      231       332        283      408        300      432         320      461        390       562      1,524    2,195
Certificate - Scholarship    0.960/yr.           116      112        142      137        150      144         160      154        195       187        763        734
Subtotal (A)                                            444                 545                 576                 615                  749                 2,929
B.  MOF Training Wing
DFO Orientation                0Q350/wk.        170        60         60       21         60        21         60       21         60        21        410       144
Forester/SWC Orientation        0.175/wk.    1,420        249        580      102        460        81        340       60        340        60      3,140       552
Nurserymen, etc. courses        0.140/wk.       740      104      1,240       174      1,600      224      1,600       224      1,600      224       6,780       950
Travel Costs                    0.150/course                5                   4                   4                    4                    4                   21
Subtotal (B)                                           418                  301                                      309                 309                 1,667
Total - In-country Courses                               862                  846                 906                  924               1,058                 4,596
II. OVERSEAS TRAINING
A.  Tribhuvan University
Den                                                1      68                                                                                             1        68
Lecturers - Certificate
(Hetaura)                                                2      204           2     204           2      204                               6       612
Lecturers - Diploma
(Pokhara) a/                                                  1,805               1,447                  436                              12    2,968
Lecturers - Certificate
(Pokhara)                                                4      574           4     574                   _                                8    1,148
Subtotal (A)                                            68               2,583                2,225                 640                                      5,516
B.  MOF Training Wing
Head, Planning Cell                                1      49                                                                                             1        49
Chief Training Officer                             1      49                                                                                             1        49
Training Officer                                   2     205                                                                                             2       205
Subtotal (B)                                           303                                                                                                     303
Total - Overseas Training                                371               2,583                2,225                 640                                      5,819
TOTAL TRAINING                                         1,233               3,429                3,131               1,564                1,058                10,415
cvX
a/  MJC courses of variable duration.



- 65 -                                                        ANNEX 7
Table 10
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Costs
(NRs '000)
Unit        Aid          - Year I --       - Year 2 --        - Year 3 __        - Year 4           - Year 5 __        -- Total --
Cost       Agency       No.   Cost         No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost
I.  Tribhuvan University
Coordinator                     60 m/m S/  USAID           12      720        6       360         6       360                                             24    1,440
Curriculum Assistant            60 m/m      USAID          12      720       12       720                                                                 24    1,440
Silviculturist                  60 m/m      USAID           6      360       12       720         6      360                                              24    1,440
Economist                       60 m/n      USAID           6      360       12       720        6       360                                              24    1,440
lydrolica Engineer              60 r/m      USAID                            12       720       12       720                                              24    1,440
Soil Scientists                 60 m/m      USAID                            22       720       12       720                                              24    1,440
Consultants                     60 rnr      USAID          10      600       10       600        10       600       10       600                          40    2.400
Subtotal                                                 46   2,760        76    4 560        52    3,120        10       60184   11,040
II.  MOF Training Wing
Forestry Training              105 n/m       USAID          3      315       12    1,260          9      945                                              24    2,520
SWC Training                   105 m/m      USAID           3      315       12    1,260         9       945                                              24    2,520
Consultants                     60 ml/n     USAID           4      240        4       240         2      120         2       120        2      120        14       840
Subtotal                                                 10      870       28    2, 760       20    2,010         2       120        2      120        62    5,880
III.  CFAD - Stove Unit a/
Stove Technologiet             7.0 mlm b/                   2       14        2        14         2       14                                               6        42
IV. CFAD Support _
ExpatraeSecialists
Team Leader                   66.9 m/m   UNDP/FAO          12      803       12       803       12       803        12      803        12      803        60    4,015
Silviculturist                61.3 m/m   UNDP/FAO           6      368       12       736       12       736       12       736         6     368         60    2,944
Socio-economist               65.0 m/m   UNDP/FAO          12      780       12       780       12       780                                              36    2,340
Consultants                   65.5 m/m   UNDP/FAO           6      393        6       393        6       393         6      393                           24    1 572
Subtotal                                                 36   2,344        42    2,712        42    2,712        30    1,932        18   1 171        180   10;871
Associate Experts             16.5 m/m   Various           81   1,337       168    2,772       168    2 ,772      168    2 ,772       168   2 ,772       753   12,425
V.  CFAD Su.port  - Other
CFAD Infrastructure                       UNDP/FAO                 564                564                564                564               348               2,604
Administration                            UNDP/FAO                 192                 96                 96                 96                48                  528
Training                                  UNDP/FAO                 276                600                648                                                     1,524
Office Supplies                           UNDP/FAO                  36                  36                 24                                                       96
Miscellaneous                             UNDP/FAO                   72                144               180                 144                84                 624
Subtotal                                                       1,140              1,440              1,512                804               480               5,376
VI.  Research
Research Foresters            16.5 m/m                     36      594       72    1,188        72    1,188        36       594                         216    3,564
TOTAL COST                                                       9,059             15,446             13.328              6.822             4.543              49.198
s/ not including costs of training for promoters (See Annex 7, Table 6).
b/  6,000 Nrs per man month and 1,000 Nrs/onth for travel.
S/ These costs are based on ODA estimates and are likely to be Increased if assistance 16
provided by USAID.



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
List of Material Available in Project File
ITEM 1          Climate and Vegetation
ITEM 2          Sample Survey of 89 Selected Panchayats in Project Area
ITEM 3          Settlement Patterns and Areas of Opportunity for
Afforestation in the Project Area
ITEM 4         Procedures for Selection and Admission of Village
Panchayats to the Project
ITEM 5         Legal Aspects of Forest Ownership
ITEM 6          Stove Improvement Unit Program
ITEM 7         Priorities for Forestry Research
ITEM 8         Formal Training Tribhuvan University - Course Proposals
ITEM 9          Inservice Training (Ministry of Fcrest Training Wing)
ITEM 10        Draft Terms of Reference for Midterm Review
ITEM 11        Proposed Terms of Reference for FAO/UNDP Technical
Assistance Staff
ITEM 12        Draft Terms of Reference for Feasibility Study on
Urban Fuelwood Supply
ITEM 13        Exploitation of High Altitude Forests - Draft Terms
of Reference for Logging/Forest Rehabilitation
Feasibility Study
ITEM 14        Motivation/Education and Related Activities
ITEM 15        Tending, Fencing and Demarcation Costs



NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Proposed Organization Structure of Ministry of Forest
Ministry of Forest
I           I                      I                                                                                               , I                                    .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _
Development~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Wl orpraio  COrpraion           Boan Hs a nj            Sicel      and WaerLaoratory                      WSctoingedopetUi                                   Scintaoti  ek  n        |Frs  uvy n    oeuit   oetY|rwigo       lann  n 1 |Adnnsrto 
Forest Products           Timber                F uelwood            Department o1f          Deartment of           Roa   rgDepartment of                         ResettlementPlnigTain
DeveBoamertdCorporaton                    C     an              Medicinal Plants         Conservation
odon noa                                                                      aa                  t               Resettlement            Corporation                Cell                   Wi
Forest Department
Natqonl Pars and  Forest Survey and                                Community Forestry            UiiaonPlanning and                              Adminitation1
Waionld Lifes Offid      Hesearch Office                                  and Afforestation           Utliato
Wild Life Office                                         ~~~~~~~~~Division          Section             Development Un,ItScto
Inventory and      LadUe          Photograhs &       Research &                                                                                     Florest Circles
Management         an   ol        Cartograph       Mansu..ation                                                                                          9
Alforestation        Community Forestry
Uni                   operations
World Bank - 20617



NEPAL
COMMUNITY FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart of Community Forestry and Afforestation Division
of Ministry of Forest
Community Forestry
and Afforestation
Division
Afforestation                    Community                       Monitoring             Administration          Stove Improvement
Unit              Fo est ~~~~y Ui                and Evaluation            and Logistics
Unit                        Forestry Unit              F        Unit                   Section                     Unit
Motivation and |
Publicity Unit
Seed           Nurseries         Plantation                                     Accuuoisi            Administration             Service
Unit             Unit              Unit    l                                       Unit                   Unit                   Unit
Far East         Central          VVestern         Far West
Divisions         Dv               ivisions        Divisions
(41             (4)               (5)              (4)
World Bank - 20618



IBRD 14534
SEPTEMBER 1979
NEPAL
IDA onigoing oral development  *,           )          \C M                                                                                                              U IY FRSR                                     EEOM N
project requirinL Community                                                                                                                               COMMUNITY  FORESTRY  DEVELOPMENT
ForEstry Deelopmenta
y  ,x< ~~~~~~~~~~CAND
Troiri og Project suppoorl.           7 ".^.-. YE//  ./.,  ....
/ '\                                                                    ,< \ >. QTRAINING PROJECT
\\   r-  MAHAK,j4/J///S) / 1'!!!! 1umb                         J         \..    /     1-                                                                                          PROPOSED PROJECT DIVISIONS:
"1                  -                                                                            ~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIDI  GROUF A
7                 "' /                                  Mog>                                                                                                             DOTI            ROUP B
t0SfI9d  to    /           7                      '  /      2                                                                                                          7    PEDOINIS  FORESTRY PROJECTS
D0  r   A N D E L   E A,;  ,                                                                                                                                                      FO R EST   D IP iS O N   R O U N D A R IES>;    ;5  CH A UTA R A  D   N  f  D    Y  D     PR OJECT  UDA  I-F R S D V S N B U A E
4/ 4/  /t7/////4/g~~4\             T b,io k                                                                                                          U        FOREST DIVISION HIEADQUIARTERS
,F  ,*                                                                                                                                              O S T R IC T :    :-  0   ,   C   9  ' ,   3l26  a.   L  P R O Jf C l     , 4I T IC   E A D O JA R T F R S
Doinekh                             *o                                                                                                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
1=.O U  'Thorko                EU                4           <>           t,                   *                                                                 BiERATIONAL LOUNDARIES
. ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     -                      NFyutboe A4oet -                                                            if                       N.                                           _ ___. OS  EVLOMNT_RJc_r
Or  n~~~~~~~',n.le. /'tn/n'rn,, n,dnrn,'r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      d,idI ,..u         mdtdb
A  ~~~  ~~$OO~~~bCWO  4Ff   ~~~~~~~                                                                     .    K~~~JHR~~~A  DU Ceopeono  'Dobobbo            -.~~M .tt,.  i-l
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'F-  I  CHINA                                                                                                                                                                  .                           Toylejong~~~~~~~~~~~~p~ MAS-YAGD
/  '-*  Aroton                                                                                         S ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~
PAKSSAN  /  *""N          7'-A                                                                                                          qc                   Ill               1db           KOSHI6
Nt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v~~~                                              l                                                                                                  0     204'0/0 1
K  e'4~~~~~~~~~~,  7  ONGOING  FORESTRY PROJECTS                                                  ('~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOETR
PAISA                              BHTA                   0   EOOECNSOAINPOyC 011Moh
r.tr'o~~oe                                   E  111cm EDLA WATERSHED ON ON        O ETYPROJECTSST  SEO1hNI                                                                                                             Coodn,
2  KRNAPIA-'SHWERI  INC1ESRATEID RURAL DIEEELOPMLNT  FOIDJEC  110                                               s'-oI                                        BA~rpo
Spa                      4                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~  ESUC CONLSOOERVAION FRNO PROJECT USIDSFALA                                                     t         
I              15             0~~~~~~~~S LAMASANEn  JIRI PJFOCIL ISATAI                                                                                     '
9SACARMATHA OooPAL DEVELOPMENvT (ASIAN DEVELOPRENT OANKI
IABA i10. KOSI DEVELOPMPENT PeROJECT (U.K.)



