Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16668
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3169-BR)
June 9, 1997
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currencv Equivalents
Currency Unit: Cruzado Cz$, New Cruzado NC$, Cruzeiro Cr$, Real R$
(July each year)
1986   IUS$    =    Cz$    13.66
1987   1US$    =    Cz$    39.23
1988   1US$    =    Cz$    262.01
1989   1US$    =    NCz$  2.83
1990   1US$    =    Cr$    62.2
1991   1US$    =    Cr$    312.7
1992   1US$    =    Cr$    3476
1993   1US$    =    Cr$    55676
1994   1US$    =    R$        0.90
1995   1US$           R$      0.92
1996   1US$    =    R$        1.00
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of the Borrower
January I - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT                 Average Daily Traffic
DER                 Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
(State Road Department)
DNER                Departamento National de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Road Department)
GEIPOT              Ernpresa Brasileira de Transportes
(National Transport Plannning Agency)
HDM III Model       Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model III
IERR                Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPR                 Instituto de Pesquisas Rodoviarias
(Road Research Institute)
IRI                 International Roughness -Index
MT                  Ministerio dos Transportes
(Ministry of Transport)
NPV                 Net Present Value
SHRP                Strategic Highway Research Program
Vice President:      Shahid Javed Burki
Director:           Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief:     Asif Faiz
Task Manager:       Gerard Liautaud



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3169-BR)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary...................................................................
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ......................1................
B. Achievement of Objectives ......................................1
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................... 6
D. Project Sustainability ..................................... 7
E. Bank Performance .....................................                                         8
F. Borrower Performance .....................................                                     8
G. Assessment of Outcome and Future Operations ...................................... 9
H. Key Lessons Learned .....................................                                      9
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2. Related Bank Loans .13
Table 3. Project Timetable .14
Table 4.  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation .15
Table 7. Studies included in Project .16
Table 8A. Project Costs ............................                                             18
Table 8B. Project Financing ............................                                         18
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits ............................ 19
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants ............................                                 20
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................                              23
Table 12. Resources: Missions ............................ 24
Part III: Borrower's Contribution to ICR  ................................... 25
Appendix:
Location Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ILOAN 3169-BRI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion report (ICR) for the Federal Highways Management and
Rehabilitation Project, (Brazil), for which Loan No. 3169-BR in the amount of US$310 million equivalent
was approved on February 10, 1990 and made effective on July 30, 1991.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1996, one year after the original Closing Date of December
31. 1995. For macroeconomic reasons, and at the Government's request, US$40 million was canceled from
the loan amount on December 21, 1994. The amount canceled corresponded to funds originally allocated
to physical and price contingencies.
Gerard Liautaud, Senior Highway Engineer, LAIIU prepared this ICR. Gobind T. Nankani, Asif
Faiz and Orville Grimes, are the Country Director, Division Chief and Projects Adviser responsible for this
report. The task manager for project appraisal was Peter Gyamfi. assisted by Senior Highway Engineers
Otto Raggambi and Jean-Claude Sallier, Senior Transport Economist Jacques Cellier, Environmental
Expert Robert Goodland and Consultant Greig Speier. The task manager throughout project
implementation was Jacques Cellier, assisted by Jean-Claude Sallier and G. Liautaud. The Division Chiefs
were respectively: M. Munasinghe (1988- 1989), G. Nankani (1990-91), A. Faiz (1992-94), A. Sanchez
(1994-95), and A. Faiz (1995 - 97).
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision mission on December 9, 1996,
and was completed in June 1997. It is based on documents in the project file and information provided by
the Borrower which also prepared its own evaluation of the project The Borrower's report was received on
May 27, 1997. The Borrower provided comments on the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
[LOAN 3169-BRI
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
This was the thirteenth loan (for US$310 million) made by the Bank to Brazil to support its
highway and road development programs. The prior twelve loans totaled US$1.44 billion. The first
four highway projects (Loans 567-BR, 676-BR, 813-BR, and 854-BR) spanned the period 1968-1975
and included the expansion and upgrading of the federal road network. These projects resulted in the
construction and paving of about 6,000 km of trunk highways. In 1975, the Fifth Highway project
(Loan 1075-BR) set the basis for Bank involvement in road maintenance and was continued in 1978
and 1984, with greater emphasis on rehabilitation, through the Sixth and Seventh Highway Projects
(Loans 1577-BR and 2046-BR). These two projects helped strengthen about 7,400 km of federal
highways. Between 1976 and 1982, three Bank loans helped finance the upgrading of about 20,000
km of feeder roads, including the construction and improvement of nearly 500 bridges, in all five
regions of the country. In 1987, the Bank approved the twelfth highway loan for the Sao Paulo State
Highway Management Project to support a major state road rehabilitation program including
institutional strengthening: With this twelfth loan, the Bank became directly involved, for the first
time, with a Brazilian state highway agency.
Project Objectives
The project, following on the Sixth and Seventh Highway Projects, was designed to continue
assisting in modernizing the road subsector's organization and management and in strengthening its
agencies. Its main objectives were to: (a) help in redefining the federal highway network and the
respective responsibilities of the federal and state agencies, while gradually transferring to the states
their new responsibilities; (b) assist in restructuring and strengthening DNER for its leadeiship and
coordinating role in the road subsector; (c) support maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of
roads in the major transport corridors; (d) improve policy formulation, strategic planning and
coordination for the entire sector;  and (e) develop and ensure compliance with environmental
standards in the transport sector.
To achieve these objectives, the project included: (i) an institutional and policy action plan
(3% of total project cost), to support strengthening of sector planning and coordination, policy
formulation, implementation of the reorganization of highway subsector management, including the
strengthening of DNER; (ii) an investment component (97% of total project cost), comprising a time
slice of DNER's five-year road investment and rehabilitation program (1990-1994), and consisting
specifically of the rehabilitation of about 3,900 km of federal roads and widening of sections totaling
159 km of the Sao Paulo-Curitiba Highway, as well as improving road safety through pavement
marking (4,300 km) and the removal of about 95 high accident spots.



ii
During project implementation, no significant modifications were made to the project's original
objectives or to the loan covenants that promoted them. However, the loan agreement was modified on
three occasions. The first modification occurred in October 1990, when the new Government which
came into office in March 1990 redefined its priorities for the highway sector, and requested that the
loan be modified to withdraw support from the proposed capacity investments on the Sao Paulo-
Curitiba highway (since the Sao Paulo State Government had assumed responsibility for carrying out
these works with state resources), and instead to include in the project support for a new pavement
repair program consisting of urgently-needed repair works over a total of about 4,500 km of high-
traffic federal highways, at an estimated cost equivalent to the amount originally allocated to the
capacity improvements and related contingencies. The reallocation was disbursed at a rate of 75% of
total expenditures.  The second modification took place on December 21, 1994, when at the
Government's request (in an effort to reduce public expenditures), US$40 million was canceled from
the loan amount. Shortly thereafter, on March 17, 1995 and considering DNER's budget restrictions,
the Bank agreed to the Government's request to increase the disbursement percentage for rehabilitation
works from 40% to 75%, while keeping overall cost sharing at about 50%.
Implementation Experience and Results
The project was successful in achieving its physical objectives but success was uneven in
fulfilling institutional goals. About 4,050 km of federal roads were rehabilitated, 104% of the project
target, and 5,400 km were substantially repaired, representing 120% of the original target. Along with
additional road strengthening operations performed during the same period by DNER on its own (about
4,000 km), the project helped reduce the proportion of roads in poor condition from about 29% at the
beginning of the project to about 10% in 1996. Nearly 2,500 km of pavement marking was executed,
compared to an initial target of 4,300 km. Of the 95 black spots initially targeted, only 35 were
removed; these operations were reduced in scope because of the excessive implementation and
supervision costs involved, as these were contracted individually and not as part of a comprehensive
rehabilitation program.
Results in reaching institutional objectives were mixed. Sector-wide planning and coordination
efforts aimed at formulating clearer nolicy and budgetary guidelines for the transport sector were
substantially completed.  The Government made significant progress in formulating appropriate
policies and initiating sector reforms, particularly over the 1991-1993 period: ports and shipping were
deregulated, railways were restructured and privatization initiated, rail commuter systems were
decentralized, federal agencies for ports and urban transport were dissolved, and staff was reduced
across the sector. Also, the Government restructured the Ministry of Transport into three Secretariats
(Planning, Development, and Production) and rationalized the work program of GEIPOT (the sector
planning company) which completed, as expected, three project components, namely: a study on road
user charges, a study on the southeast corridor plan, and the development of Environmental Guidelines
for the transport sector, including staff training. Although with a significant delay, progress was also
achieved in the following areas:  Decentralization program, Highway Planning and multi-year
Budgeting and Policy formulation including Pavement and Bridge Management Systems, Staff
Training, Technical Assistance to State Highway Agencies and Programs, as well as the
implementation of the environmental guidelines for the road subsector.  On October 1995, draft
legislation to redefine the federal network was sent to Congress, and is now under review. In May
1996, new legislation was enacted that allows the Ministry of Transport to enter into long-term
agreements with state authorities for the delegation of maintenance, improvements and concessions on
the federal network. In February 1995, a new concession law was also enacted and DNER was able to
prepare and sign in 1996 concession agreements with private operators on four major highways



iii
totaling about 800 km. DNER also recently delegated the authority to concession another 4,000 km of
federal roads to the States of Rio Grande do Sul and Parana. The DNER Pavement Management
System has been implemented and the Division concerned efficiently prepared the 1997-2001
investment and maintenance programs, based on an extensive network and traffic survey and the use of
the Bank HDM/EBM models. These models are now well assimilated and fully endorsed at both
technical and managerial levels.
Some internal structural reorganization has already taken place within DNER, with planning
activities placed under the responsibility of a more efficient technical assistance unit reporting directly
to the General Director, and with the establishment of a Concessions Department. A comprehensive
training program has been implemented under the auspices of the Brazilian Road Research Institute
(IPR), and both DNER and DER staff have benefited from these programs. Under the project,
considerable assistance has been provided by DNER to the State Highway Agencies during the
preparation and implementation of five on-going Bank-financed State Highway projects, including the
preparation of a comprehensive Operational Manual. Finally, and at all levels the project helped
achieve a greater awareness of the need to pay more attention to environmental matters.
The project was less successful in achieving other institutional goals. It fell short of improving
and modernizing DNER expertise in traffic management on the high-volume roads, and the original
intention to develop/revise norms for road widening was unfortunately abandoned following the
decision to cancel the capacity improvements on the Sao Paulo-Curitiba highway. To a large extent the
research program was disappointing, and with the exception of the Bridge Management System which
was successfully implemented, the project failed to carry out the pavement performance research aimed
at re-evaluating local pavement design and overlay methods (that research was to be linked with the
International Highway Pavement Research Program, SHRP). The project also did not achieve fully
the enforcement of vehicle weight control. Finally, it was not until 1995, one year before closing, that
adequate annual and multi-year programs were prepared in accordance with satisfactory policies. Also,
little exchange of views took place with the Bank on programs to be carried out by DNER using its
own resources and strategies.
At closing, the total project cost was about US$513 million, 85% of the revised estimate made
in December 1994 when US$40 million was canceled from the original loan amount. Overall, the
actual cost of rehabilitation works was about US$103,000 per km, compared to an original estimate of
US$110,000/km. The project, at appraisal, was to be financed 41% by the Bank and 59% by the
Government; the final figures are 53% and 47% respectively. Disbursements of loan proceeds were
only 34% of estimated figure at the end of 1994 (i.e., US$74 million), but with the cancellation of
US$40 million and the increase in disbursement percentage agreed by the Bank late 1995 and early
1996, the full US$270-million revised loan amount was finally disbursed at closing.
There was a one and a half year delay in the implementation of the project. At appraisal, it
was expected that the project would be completed by June 1995 while actual completion was in
December 1996, 18 months later. The most significant source of delay was the change in Government,
which occurred one month after Board approval in March 1990. The new administration needed time
to review the project and to re-examine its priorities. Out of this review came a request to modify the
project scope. The loan, therefore, became effective almost 16 months after Board approval. The
second most important source of delay was the unavailability of counterpart funds which, on various
occasions, slowed down the progress of rehabilitation works. Delay in the decentralization process
was mainly due to lack of continuity in DNER management (higher management changed four times
during project implementation); this slowed down the rate of progress achieved in redefining the



iv
federal network. Other important sources of delay in implementing decentralization were the slow
response of Congress in approving the draft legislation and also the reluctance of most states to accept
new highway mandates unless the necessary funds for their rehabilitation were made available.
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory in terms of responsiveness to client needs,
although with shortcomings as indicated below. The operation was prepared in line with the timing of
regular investment projects, and subsequently  the Bank reacted rapidly and favorably to the
Borrower's request to modify the project scope, to cancel uncommitted funds, and to increase the
Bank's disbursement percentages. At appraisal, project risks were correctly identified, namely: lack of
counterpart funds, and delays in management reforms and institutional improvements, especially in the
decentralization of the network and the reorganization of DNER. However, in setting out the updating
of the functional classification of roads in the National Highway Plan by late 1990, and the submission
of legislation to Congress at the end of 1991, with transfer of executive responsibilities scheduled
between 1992 and 1994, the Bank did not recognize how unrealistic this timetable would be. Bank's
supervision efforts were generally adequate since total staff inputs between 1990 and 1996 represented
about 120 staff weeks. However, only 54 days were spent in the field over a six-year period. Also,
Bank performance was weak in monitoring the maintenance and investment programs carried out by
DNER with its own funds.
The Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory with respect to the provision of counterpart
funds but satisfactory in terms of project coordination and monitoring, which contributed to reduced
field supervision inputs by Bank staff. The Borrower was also highly deficient with regard to the
timely preparation of engineering studies for the rehabilitation works which, on various occasions,
delayed bidding and contracting.  Also, it was not until June 1995 that a coherent multi-year
rehabilitation program with appropriate strategies was prepared.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
The project was successful in helping to improve the surface and structural condition of the
federal highway system along the major transport corridors. Today, most of the backlog has been
made up, since only 10% of the network is rated in poor condition, compared to the 25-30%
consistently measured  between 1985 and 1990.  A draft law for the revised National Highway
Network was finally presented to Congress while negotiations with the States on the highways to be
transferred are practically completed. The federal highway concession program has started, and the
concession of about 800 km has been awarded. The Government started to reorganize the federal
highway agency, reduced its staff through early retirement and transferred highway police to the
Justice Ministry. Also, the DNER planning function has been considerably strengthened and staff
training was a success. The Government made good progress in formulating sector policies and in
initiating sector reform, including the deregulation of ports and shipping, the restructuring and
privatization of railways, the decentralization of rail commuter systems, and the abolition of federal
agencies for ports and urban transport. Regarding the sector planning action program, GEIPOT
completed the Transport corridor study program, the road user charges study and the environmental
guidelines for the transport sector.
The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the rehabilitation works (70% of total project
cost) was re-evaluated and found to be very high, about 53 %, confirming that the project achieved an
acceptable level of net benefits. Project's sustainability regarding decentralization (including the
concession program) and reorganization of DNER will be further enhanced by the implementation of
the next highway project which is soon to be sent for approval to the Board of Executive Directors.



v
The proposed project is designed to support: (a) the decentralization program, through the financing
of rehabilitation works to be carried out, including on the roads to be transferred; (b) the concession
program, which involves some 10,000 km of high-traffic roads;  and (c) the furtherance of the
reorganization of DNER, including the preparation and implementation of a detailed strategic plan
aimed at redefining work processes and work groups and at redimensioning its staff while expanding
its training program. On the other hand, on-going Bank-financed State Highway projects are already
helping the state DERs to strengthen their planning capacity as well as their maintenance strategy, in
line with their up-coming new mandate.
Among the lessons learned:
the decentralization process of a large highway network such as the federal system of Brazil
involves regional, economic and political interests of large magnitude, and requires more time
to mature and implement than was anticipated at appraisal.  Also, it was rather naive to
imagine that state governments would accept responsibility for federal roads unless the
financial resources to rehabilitate them were available.
counterpart funding problems, once again, adversely affected the implementation of the
physical investment component of the project. In order to mitigate the negative effects of
insufficient and/or unpredictable transfers of treasury funds, more appropriate financing
mechanisms for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the networks need to be put in place
(road funds, concession contracts, etc.). Also, disbursements of the proceeds of Bank loans
could be made in quasi-tranches against eligible expenditures for maintenance and
rehabilitation, after compliance with agreed physical and institutional implementation
monitoring targets.
the project did not include appropriate indicators and targets, nor initially any computerized
project management and monitoring systems enabling project staff to effectively monitor
implementation (including DNER's own programs), progress in fulfilling the development
objectives or the performance of DNER. As a result, Bank supervision teamns were often
unable to identify delays and issues early enough to propose timely remedial measures.
Detailed implementation plans and monitorable indicators and targets are essential factors to
incorporate into project design.
the investments financed under the project were justified in economic terms, and technical
solutions were optimized at the level of each individual investment. This led sometimes to the
overdesign of individual subprojects at the expense of other essential expenditures. This is
particularly true for DNER's own rehabilitation program. It is therefore necessary to derive
technical solutions and priorities from a network management perspective, taking into account
budget constraints, and to seek compliance during implementation with the strategies
recommended by the network economic evaluation.
*      along the same lines, work programs should be based on a multi-year investment program
supported by objective network survey and economic evaluation and not, as was often the case
during implementation, on a stock of available project design studies launched on the basis of
perceived needs by district engineers.



vi
*     the project was relatively complex in the content of its institutional component. The scope and
timetable of this component was over-optimistic, while its complexity (especially the
decentralization program) would have required continuity in government administration and
management personnel. To be effective, the institutional components of projects need to more
focused and address a few essential issues with realistic timetables and designs adapted to the
capacity of the executing agency.
*     establishing a coherent and stable Project Management Unit to coordinate the actions of several
departments involved in the project helped mitigate the negative impacts of high management
turnover.
*     continuity in the Bank team during implementation had a positive and stabilizing influence
during a period of many changes in DNER key personnel.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
[LOAN 3169-BRI
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The project had five major objectives: (a) to help in redefining the federal highway network
and the related responsibilities of the federal and state agencies, and in gradually transferring to the
states their new responsibilities; (b) to assist in restructuring and strengthening the DNER for its
leadership and coordinating role in the roads subsector; (c) to continue maintaining, rehabilitating and
improving roads in the major transport corridors; (d) to improve policy formulation, strategic planning
and coordination for the entire sector; and (e) to develop and improve compliance with environmental
standards in the transport sector.
2.     The project objectives were clear and consistent with the Bank's strategy for Brazil to support
policies and investments that will encourage economic growth and social development. In supporting
the implementation of the reorganization of DNER and the improvement of strategic planning and
coordination for the entire transport sector, as well as continuing to redirect priorities and resources
away from new construction to the rehabilitation of existing high-trafficked roads, the project design
judiciously placed the emphasis on efficient resource allocation and increased efficiency in the public
sector. The objectives remained substantially unchanged during project implementation.
3.     Although the risks of delay were properly assessed at appraisal, the project timetable was
unrealistic, particularly with respect to the decentralization program and the reorganization of the
federal road agency. Expecting the legislation regarding the revised National Highway Plan to be
submitted to Congress by the end of 1991 and the transfer of responsibilities to states to be completed
by 1994 was far too optimistic. The Government was to change twice during that period, and in any
case lengthy discussions with the states were to be expected as well as the necessity to rehabilitate the
roads prior to their devolution. Likewise, and as envisaged at appraisal, setting a completion date of
1994 for the implementation of the reorganization and strengthening of DNER was overly optimistic.
The sheer size of the road subsector, the large number of agencies involved, compounded by the
inherent difficulties in getting an established institution such as the DNER to give up traditional roles,
added to probable delays in congressional action, should have urged the project designers to allow for
a longer implementation period.
B. Achievement of Objectives
4.     Transport Sector Policies. The technical assistance of the project was formulated to support
sector-wide planning and monitoring through the following three action programs: (a) a program of



2
studies aimed at the formulation of medium- and long-term strategies for the coordinated development
and operation of the transport system, focusing first upon the country's major transport corridors in the
Southeast region; (b) a program of studies to assess the impact of the 1988 fiscal reform on the system
of road user charges and to develop proposals for formulating highway cost-recovery policies at the
federal and state level, in order to improve the efficiency of the system; and (c) an action program
aimed at assessing the performance of the road transport industry after the recently introduced reforms
of economic regulation and of taxation, and at proposing appropriate corrective actions to maximize its
performance. The first two series of studies were successfully carried out by GEIPOT. The study on
the southeast corridors was completed in late 1993, and the report's recommendations on the
investment strategies and programs in the corridors have been incorporated by the Planning Secretariat
of the Ministry of Transport into the government's multi-year expenditure programs for the sector.
The report of the study on road user charges was substantially completed by mid-1992, and contained
useful recommendations on road cost-recovery policies and mechanisms, including privatization
alternatives. In particular, the recommendations led to the initiation of a concession program of high-
traffic-density federal roads which began to materialize in 1995-96 by the award of four concession
contracts totaling about 800 km and to the design of a road fund for maintenance (including the
preparation of the draft of an amendment to the Constitution) which is currently being reviewed by
Congress.  The action program  concerning the performance of the road transport industry was
ultimately canceled, as the new government revoked in 1992 the regulation measures taken by the
previous administration.
5.    Institutional Development. The institutional development component contemplated actions
and technical assistance: (a) to undertake reforms including the decentralization of the federal highway
network, and the strengthening and reorganization of the highway subsector administration; (b) to
strengthen DNER's capacity for road planning, pluriannual budgeting and policy formulation
(including the setting up of an improved pavement management system); (c) to reinforce DNER's
expertise in traffic engineering and management; (d) to train DNER staff and enhance the institution's
capacity to provide training for the state DERs; (e) to continue DNER's research program; (f) to help
DNER provide guidance and assistance to the states in the preparation and implementation of their
road rehabilitation program; and (g) to develop appropriate environmental guidelines and strengthen
the recently established DNER's environmental unit thus enabling it to better enforce and monitor
compliance with the guidelines.
6.     The process of redefining the national road network started soon after loan approval, but it was
not until October 1995 that the Ministry of Transport finally submitted to Congress draft legislation on
the revised federal highway system. Progress was slowed down by the recurrent changes in the higher
management of DNER since 1991. The General Director was changed four times during the period
1991-1996, together with most of the managers of key departments. This led to lengthy discussions on
the new structure of the federal highway system. Once consensus was achieved within the DNER
regarding the revised system, other unexpected stumbling blocks came in the way of progress when
negotiations started with state governments. Further adjustments were made to the network to be
devolved to the states, and more importantly it became clear that states were not willing to accept
operational responsibilities for the roads to be transferred unless they were first rehabilitated or
resources to do so were made available. Negotiations with the states on the highways to be devolved
to state jurisdiction are now completed, and the draft law for the revised National Highway System is
being reviewed by Congress. The new system comprises about 44,000 km of roads remaining under
federal jurisdiction, and about 17,000 km which would be gradually transferred to state jurisdiction.
The proposed Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project now being presented to the
Board is designed to support the rehabilitation component on the network to be transferred.



3
7.     The reorganization of the DNER has also been a long and tedious process. The sheer size of
the institution, the inherent difficulties involved in getting an established institution to surrender
traditional roles, and the frequent changes in higher management have hindered progress.  Progress
was made in reducing staff through early retirement and transferring the highway police to the Justice
Ministry; in bringing DNER closer to decision makers by transferring its headquarters from Rio to
Brasilia; in starting internal restructuring by merging the former Maintenance and Construction
Departments into one Department of Highway Engineering and by converting the previous Directorate
of Planning into a Technical Advisory body reporting directly to the General Director; and in creating
an efficient Concession Department also directly responsible to the General Director.  However,
substantial work is still needed to finalize the new structure. A detailed strategic plan which will re-
define systems and procedures, prepare job description and re-deployment, and pursue necessary
recruitment and training program is now required. The proposed Federal Highway Rehabilitation and
Decentralization Project will help consolidate the preparation and implementation of the reorganization
of DNER.
8.    With two seminars on the economic evaluation of road investments, one in 1994 and the other
in 1996, both organized by the Bank, and supported by two extensive network surveys carried out in
1991-92 and in 1995-96 (the latter being financed under the project), DNER was able to update and
consolidate its data base on the network characteristics, and to reinvigorate its pavement management
system. The Planning Department became fully proficient in the use of the HDM/EBM models, and
was capable of preparing efficiently the 1997-2001 program of maintenance and rehabilitation of the
revised highway network. Taking account of DNER's budget constraints, the economic evaluations
performed enabled it to define appropriate strategies and priorities to be implemented over the next five
years.  Unfortunately, prior to 1995, and even though the rehabilitation works carried out were
supported by economic analyses confirming that internal rates of return of at least 12% were
consistently obtained, their priority, from a network management perspective, was not always
demonstrated and the technical solutions selected did not necessarily correspond to standards yielding
the maximum net present value, under financial resources constraints. The necessity of complying
with the best standards as recommended by an analysis encompassing the entire highway network and
taking into account budget constraints is now fully assimilated and endorsed by DNER's management.
Its implementation is expected during the forthcoming ninth highways project.
9.     The project supported the strengthening of DNER's expertise in traffic engineering and in the
development of norms for road widening.  Following the cancellation of the capacity increase
investment for the Sao Paulo-Curitiba Highway, the interest in these improvements weakened and little
to nothing was achieved under the project.
10.   The training program implemented under the project started only in September 1993, three
years behind schedule, and continued until 1995. Designed in conjunction with a consulting firm, and
hosted by the Brazilian Road Research Institute (IPR), the program consisted of twelve modules
covering a wide range of topics from road maintenance and rehabilitation, pavement design, and road
materials to network management, works costing and supervision, and seminars on environmental
matters. Intended and implemented primarily for the benefit of DNER staff, the program was later
reduced and adapted to the most pressing needs of the state DERs where Bank-financed highway
management projects were being implemented. DNER personnel, with the assistance of individual
consultants, then promoted a series of seminars to train the staff of the road agencies of Santa Catarina,
Alagoas, Maranhao, Piaui, and Tocantins. Altogether, 500 staff benefited from the training program.



4
11.   The project was to provide also for the continuation of DNER's research program. Initially,
seven topics were proposed, including: (i) the development of new standards and procedures for new
pavements and overlays; (ii) the establishment of a bridge management system; (iii) the development of
a hydrological data base; (iv) the monitoring of slope stability; (v) research into asphalt quality
requirements and properties of asphalt additives; (vi) additional research into the use of the HDM
model; and (vii) studies on roadway characteristics and drivers' behavior in Brazil. The estimated cost
of this program represented a sizable amount of nearly US$6 million. Only about half was spent at
closing. From the start, the implementation of the research program was rather disappointing. At
appraisal, the scope and justification of the research topics were loosely defined, and throughout the
implementation period, proposals were insufficiently documented, terms of reference lacked precision
in the statement of studies objectives, and costs loosely estimated. In the end, and after lengthy
discussions regarding the above deficiencies, only three research topics were carried out:  an
Assessment of low-cost Traffic Safety Systems, an Assessment of Systems of Assistance to Victims of
Road Accidents, and the Development of a Bridge Management System. The three research themes
were initiated toward mid-1995 and substantially completed at the end of 1996. Of the three, the
Bridge Management System is certainly the most commendable achievement, and the results can be
profitably used in the future to incorporate into rehabilitation programs meaningful components of
bridge repairs, upgrading and strengthening. It is too soon to assess the likely impact of the other two
studies. The project also helped finance the rehabilitation of the DNER Research Center in Rio,
including building restoration and laboratory equipment.
12.     Apart from  the training provided by DNER  to the state road agencies which were
implementing Bank-financed road management projects, the project also provided assistance to these
states in the preparation and execution of their road rehabilitation and maintenance programs. In
particular, the Coordinating Unit for the project prepared a comprehensive Operational Manual which
proved to be very useful for the states in the day-to-day management of their projects. On various
occasions, the Unit participated in Bank supervision missions in the states, providing useful advice on
procurement and technical matters.
13.   The project helped  also  strengthen  DNER's capacity  for designing  and monitoring
environmental actions. GEIPOT developed Enviromnental Guidelines for the transport sector, and the
Ministry established arrangements to coordinate and supervise the implementation of the Guidelines
across the sector.  DNER strengthened its environmental unit and contracted, under the project,
technical assistance to implement and enforce the Guidelines for the road subsector.
14.    Physical Objectives.  Achievement of project physical objectives was substantial.  At
appraisal, it was expected that 3,860 km of federal roads would be rehabilitated. At closing, about
4,050 km were rehabilitated under the project, 104% of initial targets. The pavement repair program
carried out comprised about 5,400 km, compared to an initial target of 4,500 km, 120% of original
expectations. The target for pavement marking was initially set at 4,300 km and at closing 57% was
achieved, not including the horizontal pavement marking carried out on the road sections which were
rehabilitated. The black spot program fell short of achieving the original target of 95: only 35 critical
accident locations received appropriate treatment.  This program  was suspended because of the
localized and scattered nature of the interventions, which resulted in higher-than-expected execution
and supervision costs. The initial design of that component was deficient and should have incorporated
those works, to the extent possible, in the main rehabilitation program in order to reduce their
marginal costs. On the other hand, DNER failed to implement successfully its own rehabilitation
program which initially included about 12,500 km of roads in poor to critical condition. Only a third



5
of the program was achieved during the same period, essentially because of insufficient funding and
inappropriate strategies (high unit costs of overdesigned technical solutions).
15.   It is interesting to place the physical component of the project in the global context of the
rehabilitation programs executed by DNER since 1978, and show the effect of these successive
programs on the condition of the federal network. Before 1978, most of the DNER road investment
programs aimed at expanding and paving the federal network. Little attention had been paid to the
maintenance and rehabilitation of the portions of the network which were built in the 1950s and 1960s
and were in need of strengthening after 15 to 25 years of service. As a result, a considerable backlog
had accumulated and network condition surveys showed that the proportion of roads in bad condition
(IRI > 5) was about 20% towards the end of the 1970s. Between 1978 and 1990, sustained efforts
were made to eliminate the backlog, and three successive rehabilitation programs were carried out with
Bank assistance. During that period, about 20,000 km were rehabilitated, of which 7,400 km were
financed by the Bank under the Sixth and Seventh Highway projects. The total cost of these programs
amounted to about US$4.6 billion. With this project, and including DNER's own 1990-96 program,
the total length rehabilitated over the last 20 years represents about 27,000 km (half the current length
of the paved federal network), at a total cost of nearly US$6.5 billion. The following table shows the
effect of the rehabilitation works on the condition of the network: the proportion of federal roads in
poor condition (IRI > 5), which consistently remained on the order of 25% to 30% between 1985 and
1990, fell to about 20% in 1992-93 and to 10% in 1996. Furthermore, it is expected that the proposed
Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project will eliminate the backlog by reducing the
proportion of bad roads to a figure of about 2%. Reversing the trend upward in the proportion of bad
roads was a difficult process between 1975 and 1990, and this can be explained by a combination of
three factors:  (a) the delay in starting the rehabilitation programs, (b) the constrained levels of
resources made available, and (c) the inappropriateness (overdesign and excessive costs) of the
technical solutions implemented under the DNER-financed own programs.
Year         % in good condition      % in fair condition    % in poor condition
IRI < 3               3 < IRI < 5               IRI > 5
1979                 24                      58                      18
1984                 30                      42                      28
1986                39                       36                      25
1989                37                       34                      30
1992                33                       45                      22
1996                44                       46                      10
16.   Financial Objectives. The financial objectives of the project were substantially met. At
appraisal, the estimated total cost of the project was US$759 million, of which the Bank was to finance
US$310 million, i.e., 41% of total project cost. One year later, in October 1990, the scope of the
project was amended to include the pavement repair program in lieu of the widening of the Sao Paulo-
Curitiba Highway, modifying the cost of the project to US$713 million. The unchanged loan amount
then represented a 43% Bank participation. In December 1994, and in order to contain public
expenditure, the Government decided to reduce the scope of the project to US$608 million and US$40
million was canceled from the loan amount. When the Bank agreed in March 1995 to increase
disbursement percentage from 40% to 75% for rehabilitation works, the Bank's financial participation
in the project was expected to be 44%. At closing, the loan was fully disbursed, with 53% Bank
participation, the Government financing 47% of total project cost. Lower-than -expected bid prices as



6
well as currency parity changes between invoice and payment dates enabled DNER to meet and even
exceed physical appraisal targets despite the reduction of the overall program. Average unit costs
actually incurred for rehabilitation works were close to appraisal estimates (US$103,000/km compared
to US$110,000/km). Unit costs for pavement repair finally amounted to US$9,000/km, compared to
an initial estimate of US$11,000/km. It is noteworthy that throughout the implementation period of the
Bank-financed road rehabilitation projects in Brazil, the attention of Bank staff was focused on the need
to foster cost-effective strategies and procedures in order to achieve the major objective of efficient
resource utilization. As a result, unit costs have steadily declined over the past fifteen years, from
US$130,000/km (between 1981 and 1985, 6th Highway Project), to US$105,000/km between 1986
and 1996 and to a current figure of about US$80,000/km. In contrast, and because of different
strategies, technical standards, and procurement and supervision procedures, DNER's own
rehabilitation programs during the same period cost twice as much, with unit costs ranging consistently
between US$150,000 and US$200,000 per km.
17.   Economic Results. The economic analysis carried out at appraisal, using the HDM III model,
indicated that the rehabilitation component which represented about 70% of total project cost had an
overall internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 48%. A more refined economic analysis carried out
for the first group of roads (about 813 km) to be rehabilitated during the project's first year, gave a
consolidated IERR of 56%, with those for individual road sections ranging between 28% and 249%.
An ex-post economic analysis also using the HDM III model, was carried out at completion to reflect
actual cost figures and updated traffic volumes and projections. Representative samples of all five
groups of rehabilitation works totaling about 1000 km (25% of the total length rehabilitated) were
selected and analyzed. The results are shown in Table 9, Part II. The re-estimated IERRs do not
differ significantly from the appraisal estimates, ranging between 12% and 150%, with an overall
average of about 53%, remaining therefore at highly satisfactory levels. On the basis of the revised
analyses, the Net Present Value of the rehabilitation component is estimated at about US$850 million.
As mentioned above, these positive results are supported by the dramatic improvement in the condition
of the network which, in turn, has brought about a significant reduction in vehicle operating costs.
Between 1991 and 1997 the proportion of roads in poor condition was reduced from about 22% to
10% while the average roughness measured on the federal network in 1996 was 3.3 IRI, reflecting the
generally fair to good condition of the network.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
18.   As already pointed out, the project's objectives were substantially achieved, but with a one and
a half year delay. The Loan was approved on February 13, 1990, but became effective only on July
30, 1991, 16 months after Board approval. The new government which took office in March 1990
needed time to review its priorities in the road subsector, and requested to withdraw support from the
proposed capacity investments on the Sao Paulo-Curitiba road, and to include instead support for a new
Pavement Repair Program consisting of urgently-needed pavement repair works on a total of about
4,500 km of high-traffic federal roads. This was the most significant factor delaying project start-up
by about one year. During implementation, and as will be discussed below, other factors affected the
project which necessitated one postponement of the closing date, from December 31, 1995 to
December 31, 1996. Implementation thus took five and a half years from loan signing, compared to
four years estimated at appraisal.
19.   The second source of delays in the implementation of the physical component of the project
was the chronic lack of counterpart funds and unpredictable treasury transfers. At appraisal, average



7
rates of completion of rehabilitation works for the five groups of contracts was assumed to be about 35
km per month. During implementation, actual monthly rates per group averaged about 25 to 30 km.
Deficiencies in providing timely counterpart funds which, on various occasions, caused DNER to stop
the works on site, were further compounded by financial difficulties experienced by some contracting
firms following the Real stabilization plan.  Another source of delay in bidding and contracting
rehabilitation works was the inability of the Engineering Department to provide on time final
engineering studies for the road sections to be rehabilitated.
20.    The third significant source of delays, particularly with respect to the institutional component
of the project, stenmned from the many changes which occurred in the higher management of DNER.
Between appraisal and closing DNER's General Director changed seven times, while during the actual
implementation period of the project, from 1991 to 1996, project management changed four times,
along with the heads of the Departments which were critically involved in the execution of the project
(Engineering, Planning, Finance and Highway Operation). The decentralization process was further
delayed by lack of support in Congress for the reform and by the reluctance of state governments to
accept new responsibilities for the highways to be transferred, unless funding for rehabilitation was
made available. Also and to some extent, the decision taken and the decree signed by the Minister of
Transport, in early 1993, (but later revoked), to transfer DNER's headquarters from Brasilia back to
Rio had a debilitating effect on staff morale, affecting the pace of works and reforms.
D. Project Sustainability
21.    Civil works for road rehabilitation represented about 70% of the total financial scope of the
project. Economic re-evaluation carried out for the portion of the network which was strengthened
showed that the ex-post internal economic rates of return are high, confirming that the project achieved
a very acceptable level of net benefits. The network surveys carried out in 1992 and 1996 indicated
that the project helped reverse the growing trend in pavement deterioration observed during the
previous decades, and that most - but not all - of the backlog has been made up. Also, a more
favorable policy environment has been created by the Government: all maintenance works are now
contracted to the private sector, and a vast program of highway concession covering almost 20% of the
total length of the paved federal network has been initiated with success and is being actively pursued.
With regard to institutional aspects, and despite major delays and shortcomings, progress was made in
establishing the framework for decentralization: negotiations with the states are completed and draft
legislation on the revised National Highway System was submitted to and is being reviewed by
Congress. Substantial improvements were also made in the area of planning. DNER is now fully
proficient in network monitoring and economic evaluation, including the preparation of multi-year
rehabilitation and maintenance programs supported by adequate strategies and standards consistent with
budget constraints.
22.    All of the above tend to suggest that there should be no major risks for the improved condition
of the network to be maintained, essentially through periodic maintenance operations only, and for
reversal of the reforms. However, the most important determinants for sustainability are: (i) the
enactment by Congress of the law redefining the national network and authorizing decentralization
through transfers to the states; and (ii) the approval and implementation of the proposed Federal
Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project, which will help finance the balance of
rehabilitation works needed both on the highways to be transferred and those remaining under federal
jurisdiction. Sustainability critically depends also on the success of the concession program, which in
turn depends on the willingness of the private sector, both local and international, to invest in the



8
sector. Moreover, to further enhance sustainability, DNER needs to become a financially viable and
more efficient institution that streamlines its staffing, simplifies its procedures, strengthens its
operational performance and is capable of monitoring the contracts approved for maintenance,
delegation and concession of its network. Sustainability may also be at risk if state road agencies are
not properly trained to plan, carry out and monitor their road maintenance programs, including the
portion of the networks which have been devolved to their jurisdiction.  Continuing with Bank-
financed state highway management projects can contribute to the achievement of that goal.
Sustainability will not be ensured until many of the above achievements are met. It is therefore too
soon to come to a definitive judgment and for that reason the sustainability was rated uncertain.
E. Bank Performance
23.    Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory but with
shortcomings. The Bank responded quickly to the Borrower's request to modify the scope of the
project in order to reflect the priorities of the new Government which took office in February 1990,
two months after issuing the final version of the Staff Appraisal Report. The Bank also correctly
diagnosed most of the risks and probable sources of delay in project implementation. However,
appraisal was deficient in four important respects: (i) the timetable for project implementation was
unrealistic, particularly for the institutional development objectives (decentralization and DNER
reorganization); (ii) the project design did not include a monitoring and evaluation component with
adequate indicators and targets that would have enabled project performance to be tracked in a timely
and cost-effective manner; (iii) the research component was poorly prepared and designed, considering
the sizable amount that was allocated to that program; and (iv) the project was submitted for approval
to the Board prematurely, just one month before a new government was to take office: the high
probability of delay in signing the loan due to that change was overlooked.
24.    During implementation, the Bank performed its responsibilities reasonably well and was
responsive to the Borrower's requests in 1995-96 to reduce the scope of the project by canceling a
portion of the loan amount and to increase disbursement percentage to alleviate counterpart funding
problems as well as to extend for one year the closing date of the project. Also, the continuity of Bank
staff involved in supervision between 1992 and 1997 had a positive overall effect on the project's
achievements, counteracting in many ways the changes that occurred within the executing agency. The
number of staff-weeks allocated to supervision was 20, above the standard requirement of 12 to 15.
However, there is one area in which Bank performance during implementation was less satisfactory.
Since the missions' attention was mostly absorbed in problems of counterpart funding and in
discussions regarding subproject designs and priorities (including the preparation of network inventory
and annual programs using more appropriate strategies), not enough attention was paid to reviewing
DNER's own programs of rehabilitation and maintenance. These programs came out to be far too
expensive, and were inconsistent with the project's objective of overall efficient resource use.
F. Borrower Performance
25.    During the first four years of project implementation, the Borrower's performance was
unsatisfactory with respect to the timely provision of counterpart funding.  The situation only
improved since 1995 when the Bank agreed to increase disbursement percentage to 75 %. Considering
the lower-than-expected levels of bid prices and past Cruzeiro devaluation between invoices and
payment dates, the physical objectives of the project would have certainly been met without the need to



9
grant a one-year extension to the original closing date, had counterpart funds been released in due
time. Regarding the institutional component, the delay experienced in initiating a number of sub-
components such as training, research and DNER's reorganization stemmed largely from a lack of
commitment on the part of the executing agency. DNER's performance was also relatively poor in
having detailed engineering studies prepared on time for bidding, and in resolving issues which time
and again paralyzed a number of contracts. On the positive side, the project coordinating unit has been
very efficient throughout, and the lack of continuity in DNER's upper management would have had a
greater negative impact on the pace of implementation, had this unit performed less efficiently. Also,
the good performance of the recently created Concession Department deserves a special mention.
Finally, towards the end of the project implementation period, the Ministry of Transport performed
efficiently and expeditiously in the difficult negotiations with the state governments regarding
decentralization.
G. Assessment of Outcome and Future Operations
26.    On balance, the project outcome may be rated as partially satisfactory:  if the project
successfully achieved, although with some delay, most of its major objectives (rehabilitation of the
network, strategic planning, development of appropriate environmental standards and redefinition of
the federal highway network), other important objectives mostly remained unmet, such as the transfer
of part of the network to the states, and the restructuring of DNER. But, this was largely due to
unrealistic original timetables. There is an urgent need for complementary actions, most of which have
been incorporated by the Government into the proposed Federal Highway Rehabilitation and
Decentralization Project, to be presented soon to the Bank's Executive Board of Directors for
approval. This follow-up operation, if executed, will help guarantee the sustainability and continuation
of the project. Indeed, its objective is to improve and maintain the federal highway network and
further reduce highway transport costs by: (a) rehabilitating almost 14,000 km of road sections still in
critical condition, thereby reducing the proportion of roads in bad condition from a current 10% to
about 2% in the year 2002; (b) decentralizing highway responsibilities to participating states over
about 17,000 km including the prior rehabilitation of the road segments that are in poor condition; (c)
increasing the participation of the private sector in the management and financing of highways through
concession (about 10,000 km of high traffic roads could attract private sector involvement) and through
maintenance management contracts applied to the entire federal system; and (d) strengthening the
capabilities of DNER and DER to prepare, contract and monitor efficient highway rehabilitation and
maintenance programs and highway concession projects.
H. Key Lessons Learned
27.    Among the lessons learned:
the decentralization process of a large highway network such as the federal system of Brazil
involves regional, economic and political interests of large magnitude and requires more time
to mature and implement than was anticipated at appraisal. It was also somewhat naive to
imagine that states governments would accept to assume a federal mandate for roads unless the
financial resources to rehabilitate them were available.



10
counterpart funding problems, once again, adversely affected the implementation of the
physical investment component of the project. In order to mitigate the negative effects of
insufficient and/or unpredictable treasury funds transfers, more appropriate financing
mechanisms for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the networks need to be put in place (
road funds, concession contracts...). Also, disbursements of the proceeds of Bank loans could
be made in quasi-tranches against eligible expenditures after compliance with agreed physical
and institutional implementation monitoring targets.
*      the project did not include appropriate indicators and targets, nor any computerized project
management and monitoring systems to effectively monitor project implementation (including
DNER's own programs), progress in fulfilling the development objectives and the performance
of DNER. As a result, Bank supervision teams were often unable to identify delays and issues
early enough to seek timely remedial measures.   Detailed implementation plans and
monitorable indicators and targets are essential factors to incorporate into project design.
*      the investments financed under the project have been justified in economic terms and technical
solutions have been optimized at the level of each individual investment.  This has led
sometimes to overdesigning of individual subprojects to the detriment of other essential
expenditures, and this is particularly true for DNER's own rehabilitation program.  It is
therefore necessary to derive technical solutions and priorities from a network management
perspective, taking into account budget constraints, and to seek compliance during
implementation with the strategies recommended by the network economic evaluation.
along the same lines, work programs should be based on a multi-year investment program
supported by an objective network survey and economic evaluation, and not on a stock of
available project design studies launched under political pressure or by districts engineers'
perception of needs.
*      the project was relatively complex in the content of its institutional component. The scope and
timetable of this component was over-optimistic, while its complexity (especially the
decentralization program) would have required continuity in government administration and
management personnel. To be effective, the institutional components of projects need to be
more focused and address a few essential issues with a realistic timetable and design adapted to
the capacity of the executing agency.
*      establishing a coherent and somewhat independent Project Management Unit to coordinate the
actions of several departments involved in the project helped mitigate the negative impacts of
high management turnover.
*      continuity in the Bank team during implementation had a positive and stabilizing influence
during a period of many changes in key DNER personnel.



11
PART II: Statistical Tables






12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial    Partial     Negligible     applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                         x
Sector policies                                   x
Financial objectives                 x
Institutional development                         x
Physical objectives                  x
Poverty reduction                                                              x
Gender concerns                                                                x
Other social objectives                                                        x
Environmental objectives             x
Public sector management                          x
Private sector development                                                     x
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability              Likely     Unlikely     Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                    x
Preparation assistance                            x
Appraisal                                         x
Supervision                                       x
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                       x
Implementation                                    xa/           xb/
Covenant Compliance                               x
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
x
a/  for project management.
bI   for counterpart funds.



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans (for the Road Subsector)
Loan            Purpose            Year of  Amount  Year of  Information Source
Title                             Approval  US$M    Closing
Prior Operations
567-BR   Highway Constr. &           1968       26       1972   PPAR No 626
Paving
676-BR   Highway Constr. &           1970       100      1976   PPAR No. 644
Paving
813-BR   Highway Constr. &           1972       89       1977   PCR 05/30/78
Paving
854-BR   Highway Constr. &           1972       51       1977   PPAR No. 2571
Paving
1075-BR  Rd Maint. &                 1975       110      1983   PCR 05/8/85
Rehabilitation
1207-BR   Feeder Rds Upgrading       1976       55       1984   PCR 06/14/85, PPAR
09/23/86
1557-BR  Highway Maint. & Rehab      1978       114      1985   PCR 03/20/87, PPAR
11/16/89
1730-BR   Feeder Rd Improvement      1979       110      1986   PCR 11/06/89, PPAR No.
9367
2061-BR   Highway Constr. &           1981      240      1988   PCR, PPAR
Feeder Rd Improvement
2224-BR   Feeder Rds Improvement      1982      154      1989   PCR 03/31/93
2446-BR   Highway Maint. & Rehab      1984      210      1989   PCR 06/16/92
2830-BR   Sao Paulo Hway. Rehab       1987      142      1995   ICR 09/24/96, No. 16026
& Mgmt
Subsequent Operations
3547-BR  Santa Catarina State        1992        50     1999 a/
Highway Management
3548-BR  Alagoas State Highway       1992        38      1999 a/
Management
3713-BR   Piaui State Highway        1994        54     1999 a!
Management
3714-BR  Tocantins State Highway     1994        87      1999 a/
Management
3715-BR  Maranhao State Highway      1994        79      1999 a/
Management
a! Scheduled



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                        Date Planned               Latest Estimate
Identification                                  10-Feb-87                   10-Feb-87
Preparation I                                  May-87                       27-Oct-87
Preparation II                                 Sep-87                       29-Feb-88
Preappraisal                                    Dec-87                      19-Feb-89
Final Executive Project Summary                Jan-88                       25-Apr-89
Appraisal                                      Jun-88                       26-Jun-89
Negotiations                                   Oct-88                       26-Oct-89
Board Approval                                 Mar-89                       13-Feb-90
Loan Signature                                 Apr-90                       30-Apr-91
Loan Effectiveness                             Jun-90                        30-Jul-91
Loan Closing                                   31-Dec-95                    31-Dec-96
Expected Project Completion                    30-Jun-95                    30-Jun-96
Source: Project Files
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in millions of US$)
IBRD Fiscal Year         1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Appraisal Estimates a/        42.0    85.0   151.0   230.0   310.0   310.0   310.0   310.0
Actual Disbursements b/        0.0      0.0    47.6    73.8   105.9   204.3   248.8   270.0
Actual as % of Estimated       0.0      0.0    31.5    32.1    34.2    65.9    80.3    87.1
Date of Final Disbursement April 1997
a! The original closing date of December 31, 1995 was postponed in order to allow completion of ongoing works and studies
b/ An amount of $40.0 million was cancelled on December 21, 1994. Actual disbursements in 1997 therefore represent
100% of revised loan amount.
350.0
Source: World Bank MIS and Project Files
300.0-
250.0    Apprai --
200.0 - EtImte
o 50.0
2100.0                          A  ,-0-   
: o.o    -     (4    C            0    (      -
o0    0     0.    0     0     0     0     _
IBRD Fiscal Year



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I - Key hnplementation Indicators in SAR   Estimated Schedule (SAR)      Actual Schedule
1. Civil Works & Supervision
Group 1                            6/90-12/92   19 months   10/92-12/94    26 months
Group 2                           6/91-12/93    19 months   10/92-9/95     35 months
Group 3                           6/92-12/94   19 months   4/93-12/95      20 months
Group 4                            6/93-12/94   19 months   7/93-12/96     42 months
Group 5                            6/94-6/95    12 months   10/95-12/96    15 months
Pavement Repair                       10/89-6/91    21 months   10/89-12/96    85 months
Pavement Marking                       12/90-3/95    52 months   12/92-9/94    22 months
Elimination of Black Spots             9/90-3/95    55 months   10/93-12/96    29 months
Training - technical assistance       6/90-12/94   55 months   9/93-12/96      15 months
Research - technical assistance        3/91-6/95    48 months    9/95-2/97     17 months
Environment Actions                   10/90-10/94   48 months              N.A.
2. Decentralization
- Updating of functional classification of    6/88-6/89    12 months    6/91-8/95  50 months
roads in the National Highway Plan
- Discussion with States               6/90-6/91    12 months    6/93-8/95      26 months
- Subm. of draft law to Congress         12/91                      10/95
- Decision of Congress & transfer of   1/92-12/94   24 months             Pending
executive responsibilities
3. DNER Reorganization
Implementation of DNER's              1/90-12/94   48 months          Still in progress
reorganization and strengthening
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I- Key Operating Indicators in SAR    Estimated               Actual               (%)
1. Rehabilitation                         3860 km                 4045 km            (104%)
2. Pavement Repair                         4500 km                6064 km             (135%)
3. Pavement Marking                        4300 km                2439 km             (57%)
4. Elimination of Black Spots              95                     14                 (15%)*
* Program was suspended because of higher-than-expected execution and supervision costs.



16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined            Status                       Impact of Study
Planning and Coordination of the Transport Sector
Sector-wide Planning and        Have MT define clearer policy for GEIPOT and   Completed                  Provided inputs for the formulation of
Coordination                    GEIPOT to prepare medium-term strategic plan for                          Government planning targets
the development and operation of 3 major transport
corridors
Reform and Strengthening of Road Sector Administration
Decentralization                Redefine federal highway network and transfer of  Preparation completed.  Decentralization of the federal road system.
(5a)*                          responsibilities for management, maintenance and  Draft legislation submitted to  Follow-up support expected under the next
rehabilitation of some federal roads to the States  Congress in October 1995    loan
DNER reorganization             Strengthen DNER's role as national road agency  Partially implemented     Significant but not enough; has to be
supported in next Project
Detailing of operational areas  Task descriptions, hierarchy of functional     Partially completed        Limited numbers of new professionals have
responsibilities, analysis of DNER staff needs                            been recruited
Highway planning and pluriannual   Strengthen DNER's capacity for road planning,  Completed               Significant progress in DNER's Planning
budgeting and policy formulation    pluriannual budgeting and policy formulation                          Division and staff capacity to prepare
multi-year programs
Pavement management (4a & 5a)*   Review and improve the design of the information to  Completed           The pavement management system is fully
be collected and strengthen diagnostic                                   implemented at the planning level and
steps are being taken to extend its
application to the engineering design and
field work
Traffic engineering             Improve traffic flow management, modernize traffic   Cancelled            None
engineering, and develop guidelines for widening
roads
Training (4a)                   Improve DNER's capability for in-house training and  Completed            Training programs completed, but long-
technology transfer to the State DERs                                     term impact still to be assessed



17
Study                  Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                  Status                         Impact of Study
Research projects                Participate.in SHRP research and develop new  Cancelled                              None
standards for pavements and overlays
(4a)*                            Establish a bridge management system          Completed                              Positive, still to be assessed
Develop a hydrology data base                 Cancelled                             None
Monitor slope stability                       Cancelled                             None
Investigate asphalt quality requirements and  Cancelled                             None
properties of asphalt additives
Further research on HDM use                   Cancelled                             None
Study drivers' behavior and roadway           Cancelled                             None
characteristics in Brazil
Other research projects not      Assess low-cost traffic safety systems        Completed                              Positive, still to be assessed
considered at the time of appraisal
(4a)*
*                                Assess injured user's rescue systems          Completed                              Positive, still to be assessed
Technical assistance to State    Strengthen DNER's capability to assist the State    Completed                        Positive, including the preparation
agencies                         agencies in preparing their programs                                                 of an operational manual
Highway cost recovery (5a)*      Define cost recovery policies and monitoring  Completed                              Subsidized proposals of road
systems (GEIPOT)                                                                    funding policies in the
Constitution being reviewed by
Congress. Promoted concession
program
Review of road transport industry    Prepare action plan to propose corrective actions   Cancelled                    The road transport industry has
regulations                      to maximize the performance of the industry                                          been completely deregulated
Improving environmental control    Prepare environmental guidelines for roads and  Completed                          Positive, still to be enforced and
(Sa)*                            other transport modes (GEIPOT)                                                       assessed
(Sa)*                            Strengthen Environmental DNER Unit            Completed                              Positive
(5a)                             Implement an Environment Unit in the Ministry    Completed                           Positive
of Transport
(5a)*                            Environmental review of selected projects     Partially completed                    Only BR- 10 1/RJ projects have
been reviewed
(5a)*                            Enviromnental training                        Partially completed                    Only seminars have been carried
out
Note: Figures indicate the expenditure category and sub-category as described in the Loan Agreement.
* Indicates actions financed under this Loan; otherwise, actions were financed by DNER budgetary resources.



18
Table 8A: Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate (US$M) Revised Estimate (US$M) Revised Estimate (US$M)    Actual (US$M)
Dec-89                  Oct-90                  Dec-94                 Mar-97
Local  Foreign           Local Foreign          Local Foreign           Local Foreign
Category          Description          Costs   Costs      Total Costs   Costs    Total Costs   Costs    Total Costs   Costs    Total
I-B, I-C  Civil Works Rehab & Safety     267.5   181.0   448.5  267.5   181.0  448.5  267.5   181.0  448.5  256.1  173.3  429.4
Sao Paulo, Curitiba *         67.5    45.0   112.5
2-D      Pavement Repairs                  0.0     0.0      0.0   40.0   27.0   67.0   40.0   26.7   66.7   34.0   22.9   56.9
3        Goods, Equipment                  0.2     0.8      1.0    0.2    0.8       1.0    0.2    0.8    1.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
4-A      Detailed Engineering & Superv.   28.2     9.0    37.2   23.9    7.5   31.4   30.0    9.5   39.5   14.3    4.5    18.8
4-B      Training & Research               5.5     4.5    10.0    5.5    4.5    10.0    4.7    3.9    8.6    2.5    2.3    4.8
5        T.A. for Sector Planning &        4.4     2.0      6.5    4.4    2.0    6.4    4.6    2.0    6.6    0.8           1.8    2.6
DNER Reorg. & Strengthening
6        Training abroad                   0.0     0.3      0.3    0.0    0.3    0.3    0.0    0.3    0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0
7        Contingencies Unallocated        86.7    56 4    143 1   91.0   57.9  148.9   22.5   14.3   36.8    0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                                    460.0   299.0   759.0  432.5  280.9  713.4  369.5  238.5  608.0  307.7  204.8  512.5
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M) Revised Estimate (US$M) Revised Estimate (US$M)    Actual (US$M)
Dec-89                  Oct-90                  Dec-94                 Mar-97
Sources                 Local  Foreign           Local Foreign           Local Foreign          Local Foreign
Costs   Costs     Total Costs   Costs    Total Costs   Costs    Total Costs   Costs    Total
IBRD                                      11.0   299.0   310.0   29.0  281.0  310.0   32.0  238.0  270.0   32.0  238.0  270.0
Local Contribution                       449.0     0.0   449.0  403.5    0.0  403.5  338.0    0.0  338.0  242.5    0.0  242.5
TOTAL                                    460.0   299.0   759.0  432.5  281.0  713.5  370.0  238.0  608.0  274.5  238.0  512.5



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A)    Rehabilitation Works
Average Daily         Unit Cost        Economic Rate
Traffic            US$/km             of Return         NPV
Length                                                                Actual
Group        Road               Section          (Ian)    Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  Appraisal  Actual  (US$000)
I    010/MA            km 0 - km 124.5       124.5     2,200      1,050    104,087    113,181    41%       38%     13,975
222/CE           km 222.0 - km 296.0    74.0      1,500     1,883    110,032     79,073    35%       55%      13,137
282/SC           km 540.0 - km 585.0    45.0      2,200     1,500    137,172    172,147    42%       36%      7,375
2    232/PE            km 416.5 - km 458.2    41.7      1,300     1,400     66,859     86,340    97%       84%     13,131
10/RN           km 97.3 - km 108.0     21.0     8,720      6,025    119,121    140,235   161%       55%      5,954
262/MG           km 730.6 - km 803.7    73.1      1,400     1,575     80,081    115,909    95%       63%     22,334
3     101/RJ           km 433.0 - km 482.0    49.0     3,289      5,300    102,952    148,655    16%       15%      1,061
040/RJ (4 lanes)   km 64.0 - km 80.5    33.0      3,023     4,363    115,978    174,266    39%       33%      5,588
364/RO            un 110.0 - km 244     134.0     2,459     2,200     91,305    124,713    38%       27%     13,165
4    285/RS            km 75.4 - km 128.2     52.8      1,557     2,033     85,377    124,124    17%       12%      0,040
135/MA           km 259.0 - km 324.8    65.5     3,014      2,200    110,751     67,160    67%      149%     34,676
040/GO (4 lanes)   km 0.0 - km 32.8     65.6      2,892     3,625     95,393     63,635    75%       90%     23,552
5    262/ES             an 71.5 - km 115..2   43.7     2,384      2,522    123,908    105,184    68%       93%     21,039
020/BA           km 0.0 - km 100.0      100.0      949      1,100     92,043     67,630    29%       29%      5,590
153/TO           km 701.0- km 739.5    38.5      3,332      2,200    170,091    134,489    164%     74%      18,090
Total and/or Average                   961.4      2,681     2,598    107,010    114,449    66%       57%    198,707
(Total)   (Avg)      (Avg)    (Avg)      (Avg)    (Avg)    (Avg)    (Total)
B)    Road Network Condition
Condition                                           Appraisal (1989)                           Actual (1996)
Good                                                     37%                                       44%
Fair                                                     34%                                       46%
Poor                                                     30%                                       10%



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement:  Loan 3169-BR
Convenant   Present
Section       Type       Status        Description                  Comments
2.02 (b)    Management       C    Open CESA account
Aspects
2-02 (c)    Management       C    Open FESA account
Aspects
2-05        Financial        C    Interest payments
3-01 (b)    Management       C    Contract GEIPOT for
Aspects               transport studies
3-01 (d)(i)  Management      C    Pavement engineer to be
Aspects                assigned
3-01 (d)(ii)  Management     C    Request Bank approval
Aspects                for research activities
3-01 (d)(i)  Management    CD&P  Start research activities 90 Unsatisfactory because of
Aspects                days after contract signed  extensive delay in execution (more
than a year) and also because
scope of research only partially
achieved
3-01 (d)(iii) Environmental    C    DNER to implement       The DNER has a specific
Clause                 environment unit before   environmental unit within the
December 31st 1992.     Studies and Design Division of
the Highway Engineering
Directorate
3-01 (d)(iii) Environmental  CD&P  DNER to start            Only a few projects in BR-101/RJ
Clause                 environmental review of   were reviewed in 1995/96
selected projects before
December 31't 1992
3-01 (d)(iii) Environmental   CD    DNER to approve         Approved by the DNER
Clause                 guidelines before June 30' Administrative Council in October
1991                    1996
3-01 (d)(iii) Environmental  CD&P  Environmental training    Delayed and limited to some
Clause                 for MT, GEIPOT, DNER  Seminars
3-01 (d)(iv) Implementation  CD&P  Black spot - identification  Identification OK, but design
& design                limited to a few spots
3-01 (e)    Management       CP   Exchange opinions on      GEIPOT prepared a study but
Aspects                road sector financing    DNER had no initiative on this
every year              subject



21
Convenant   Present
Section       Type       Status        Description                  Comments
3-01 (e)    Management       N    Exchange opinions on axle DNER has continued with its
Aspects               load control every year   programme of dynamic weigh
bridges to control axles loads on
federal roads. Concessionaires
have also been authorized to
operate controls on their road
sections
3-02 (b)    Management       CP   DNER to establish a       DNER registers were satisfactory
Aspects                unique register file for    to the Bank
contractors and suppliers
3-03 (a)    Management       C    DNER to submit a          This procedure was followed by
Aspects               technical data sheet to the  DNER throughout the duration of
Bank for prior approval in the project
respect of any
rehabilitation sub- project
3-03 (b)    Management       C    DNER to submit a          This procedure was followed by
Aspects               technical data sheet to the  DNER throughout the duration of
Bank for prior approval in the project
respect of any
engineering sub-project
3-03 ( c)   Management       C    DNER to submit a          This procedure was followed by
& (d)       Aspects                technical data sheet to the  DNER throughout the duration of
Bank for prior approval in the project
respect of any safety
project
3-03 ( e)   Management       C    DNER to submit a          This procedure was followed by
Aspects               technical data sheet to the  DNER throughout the duration of
Bank for prior approval in the project
respect of any safety
project
3-03 (g)    Management       CP   DNER not to change the   Project adjustments involving
Aspects                scope of approved        variations in cost up to a limit of
subprojects             15%  were often authorized
unilaterally by DNER
3-04        Management       CD    DNER to develop a        PMS was implemented
Aspects                Pavement Management    satisfactorily in 1996
System - PMS



22
Convenant  Present
Section      Type      Status         Description                 Conunents
3-04       Management       CD   DNER to prepare annual  Multi-year program prepared in
Aspects               and multi-year road     1996 was satisfactory
programs
3-05       Management       CD   Exchange opinions on the Only in 1995 did actions on this
Aspects               transference of         subject become effective
responsibilities to the
States
3-05       Management    CD&P  Exchange opinions on    Opinions have been exchanged on
Aspects               operational areas       the concession program and its
effects on DNER organization. The
Bank has supported this
privatization program
3-05       Management  CD&P  Exchange opinions on         Program delayed and reports have
Aspects              research program and its  just been sent to the Bank
results
4-01 (b)    Accounting!    CD    DNER to supply audit     Audit reports were submitted with
Audit                report before June 30th  some delay
every year
4-03 (a)    Management    CP   The Borrower to assure    Because of lack of budgetary
Aspects              convenient maintenance for funds, routine maintenance has
road network             been inadequate
4-03 (c)    Management  CD&P  DNER to furnish to the      Multi-year program prepared in
Aspects              Bank annual and multi-year 1994 was not considered for
programs                 budgetary purposes; program
prepared in 1996 is being properly
considered
4-04       Management    CP   The Borrower to maintain  Partial pavement surveys carried
Aspects              facilities for systematic data out in 1992 and 1995; traffic data
collection for road network  are still insufficient
monitoring
4-05       Management  CD&P  Action Plan for              DNER prepared several alternative
Aspects              Decentralization         plans for reducing the size of the
federal road network, and
participated in various
negotiations with the State
Authorities. However, the final
plan submitted as draft legislation
to Congress was defined by the
Ministry of Transport and sent in
October 1995



23
Convenant  Present
Section      Type       Status        Description                   Comments
4-05        Management  CD&P  Action Plan for cost         A tax on imported petroleum
Aspects              recovery from road users   created to assist with DNER
finances. Road sector financing is
expected to be discussed by
Congress as part of the pending
fiscal reform
4-05        Management    C    Action Plan for road        Total deregulation came in 1991
Aspects              freight deregulation      before any action was necessary
with project funds
C   =  Complied with
CP  =  Partially complied
CD  =  Complied with delay
N   =  Not executed
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle               Weeks               US$(1000)
Preparation to appraisal                           82.8                 204.1
Appraisal through Board approval                   31.2                  86.0
Supervision                                       120.0                 473.8
Completion                                          1.0                   3.2
TOTAL                                             235.0                 767.1



24
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project  Month/ No. of Days in         Specialization         Implem.   Devt.                      Types of
Cycle        Year   Staff  Field            Represented             Status   Impact                    Problems
Through Appraisal  10/87 -   3          Sr. Hwy. Eng., Sr. Transp.Ecn.,
02/89                Env. Spec.
Appraisal through   06/89 -   3         Sr. Hwy. Eng., Sr. Transp. Ecn.,
Board Approval    06/90                 Env. Spec.
Supervision       09/91    2       10  Sr. Transp. Ecn., Pavem. Spec.       2         1    Limited institutional capacity of DNER
06/92    2      7   Sr. Transp. Ecn., Sr.Hwy.Eng.        2         I    Delay due to Government's freezing of budget to
contain public expenditures
01/94    4       5   Sr. Transp. Ecn., Sr.Hwy.Eng., Env.
01/94    4    5 Spec., Org. Spec.                      2               Delays due to lackofcounterpart funds
Sr Transp. Ecn., Sr. Hwy. Eng.,                    Limited planning and management capabilities of
04/94    5       7   Env. Spec.m Org. Spec., HDM         2         1    DNER
Spec.
10194    4      3   Sr. Transp. Ecn., Sr.Hwy.Eng., Env.    U       S    Limited planning and management capabilities of
Spec, Org. Spec                                    DNER
01/95    2      5   Sr. Transp. Ecn., Sr.Hwy.Eng.        U         S    Limited planning and management capabilities of
01/95 2  5    r. Trmp. cn.,Sr.Hw.Eng   U         S    DNER
11/95    2      2   Sr. Transp. Ecn., Sr.Hwy.Eng.        S         S    Delay in appointing a successor to previous project
coordinator
04/96    3      9   Sr. Transp. Ecn., Sr.Hwy.Eng.,       S         S    Delay in appointing a successor to previous project
Transp. Eng                                        coordinator
10/96    2      6   Sr. Transp. Ecn., Sr.Hwy.Eng.        S         S
Source: Project Files



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
[LOAN 3169-BRI
PART III: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
This was the thirteenth loan made by IBRD to Brazil to support its highway programs, the 12
previous loans totaling US$1.433 billion. The first four covered the 1968-75 period and were for the
purpose of expanding and upgrading the federal road network.  These projects resulted in the
construction and paving of about 6,000 km of trunk highways. In 1975, the Fifth Highway Project
(Loan 1075-BR) laid the foundations for Bank involvement in the maintenance, rehabilitation and
strengthening of the road system, including a program of weigh stations for checking axle loads,
together with technical assistance for the planning of maintenance.  In 1978, the Sixth Project
continued the Bank's involvement in road maintenance and rehabilitation. In the 1976-83 period, three
loans were made for feeder road projects. The Northwest Regional Development Program included the
first ever technical assistance component intended for a State (Rond6nia). The Federal Highways
Sector Project (IBRD-VII-1984) provided support for a road rehabilitation program and a road safety
program, training and technical assistance for paving and equipment management systems, and
research studies. The first loan made directly to a State Government was for the Sao Paulo State
Highway Management Project, for road rehabilitation and institutional strengthening.
In 1988, DNER submitted a technical proposal for the Federal Highway Management and
Rehabilitation Project (IBRD-VIII) to the Bank for discussion. Negotiations took place in Washington,
D.C. in November 1989, but the Loan Agreement was not signed until April 30, 1991. The delay was
due to the following factors: (i) the change of Government in 1990; (ii) a modification in the project
objectives, replacing capacity investments on the Sao Paulo-Curitiba highway with emergency
pavement repair; (iii) the period necessary for the Brazilian Senate to give its approval; (iv) the
bureaucratic complications involved in processing a Loan Agreement of this magnitude.
Once the Loan Agreement had been signed, other agreements were reached on assistance for
strengthening management and maintenance capacity in the Highways Departments of the States of
Santa Catarina, Alagoas, Maranhao, Piaui, and Tocantins. Recently, negotiations began between the
Bank and the Brazilian Government for a Federal Highways Decentralization and Rehabilitation
Project, to be cofinanced by IDB. The new project would rehabilitate federal highways that are to
remain under the jurisdiction of DNER, together with some of the federal highways that will be
transferred to the States, thus helping speed up the decentralization process. It will also support the
DNER privatization program, technical assistance, the introduction of wider-ranging maintenance
contracts that incorporate into the process of routine maintenance a limited number of tasks relating to



26
pavement rehabilitation and resealing, together with a new approach to supervision, with payment
based on performance, and an environmental component.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to assist in modernizing the road subsector's organization
and management and in strengthening its agencies, as a further stage in the series of highway projects
implemented in Brazil. More specifically, it had the following main objectives:
(a)    help in redefining the federal highway network and the respective responsibilities of the federal
and state agencies;
(b)    assist in restructuring and strengthening DNER for its leadership and coordinating role in the
road subsector;
(c)    support maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement of roads in the major transportation
corridors;
(d)   improve policy formulation, strategic planning, and coordination for the entire sector;
(e)    develop and ensure compliance with environmental standards in the transportation sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
With a few exceptions, the project achieved its physical objectives. The physical targets for
rehabilitation were reached, and those for pavement repair were exceeded, but implementacion with
regard to pavement marking and the elimination of black spots fell short of expectations.
Component                          Unit           Physical Objective    Achieved
Rehabilitation                      km                    3,900          4,045
Repairs                             km                   4,500           6,064
Marking                             km                    4,300          2,439
Removal of black spots      Number of black spots           95              35
Even though insufficient budget resources were allocated (both in the form of counterpart
funds and as funding for highway rehabilitation and maintenance projects that were not financed by the
Bank), the overall condition of the network improved during the project period (1992-96). This can be
seen in the increase in the percentage of paved network with an International Roughness Index of less
than 3 (from 33.2% to 44.1%), and in the reduction in the percentage with an IRI greater than 5 (from
21.9% to 10.7%).



27
IRI                         1992                          1996
< 3                        33.2%                         44.1%
3to5                        44.9%                         45.2%
> 5                        21.9%                          10.7%
Total                      100.0%                         100.0%
To mitigate the problems arising from the lack of counterpart funds, in 1995 the Bank agreed
to increase its coverage of civil works costs from 40% to 75 %; however, the rate at which counterpart
funds were released continued to be unsatisfactory. In December 1994, for macroeconomic reasons,
the Brazilian Government requested the cancellation of US$40 million provided under the Loan
Agreement, thus affecting the reserve of unallocated funds.
The results achieved in the main institutional components can be considered satisfactory,
although the research program was disappointing. In particular, significant progress was made in the
following areas:
* The decentralization program advanced, given that:  (i) draft legislation (PL 1176/95) for
redefining the federal network is now under review in Congress; (ii) Law 9,277/96 allows the
Ministry of Transportation to enter into long-term agreements with the States to delegate
maintenance and improvements on federal highways, collecting tolls for the recovery of costs
either directly or through concessionaires; (iii) DNER has signed concession agreements for
four of its main highways. These measures should relieve the financial pressure on DNER's
budget.
The DNER Pavement Management System has been implemented, and its application to the
preparation of multiyear programs has been assimilated at both technical and managerial level.
*      Reorganization of DNER has begun.  Planning activities are now the responsibility of a
planning assistance unit that reports directly to the Director General, and a Directorate has
been established to deal with the granting of concessions to private-sector enterprises. Since
DNER moved from Rio de Janeiro to Brasilia, many of its employees have decided to retire
and some of the resulting vacancies have been filled through competitive procedures. This loss
of experienced personnel was detrimental to DNER; however, the new members of staff have
received training financed by the project and are bringing in new ideas, especially in the areas
of planning and the Pavement Management System.
*      At all levels, there is a growing awareness of the need to pay greater attention to
environmental problems.



28
Key Lessons Learned
The following are the key lessons learned from the project:
*      Decentralization involves economic, regional, and political interests, and these were only
partially taken into account at appraisal. Instead of formal changes in the National Highways
Plan, more attention could have been given to long-term arrangements whereby DNER would
delegate the maintenance, rehabilitation, and improvement of federal roads to the States,
clearly defining what their share of overall costs would be.
*      The need for support for changes in the maintenance contracting system. In DNER, routine
maintenance, rehabilitation, and even pavement marking are contracted out separately by
different divisions.  There have been some shortcomings (i.e. overlaps, and inadequate
coordination among different types of contract relating to the same section of road), and DNER
is interested in entering into longer-term contracts that would cover the entire range of services
for a given road. This project paid little attention to the problems of routine maintenance, but
the Bank indicated that it would be willing to participate in technical assistance for the
preparation of a pilot program of performance contracts for highway maintenance, or
maintenance and rehabilitation.
*      Problems caused by inadequate and irregular transfers of counterpart funds were greater than
anticipated.  DNER's budget proposals were defined in accordance with the constraints
imposed on the agency, but were inadequate to provide for normal implementation of the
project. The situation was made even worse by the changes introduced into the budget when it
was discussed in Congress. The financial problems were caused by the Government's overall
difficulties. A solution could be to use cofinancing as a means of reducing local contributions
to future projects, which would thus be less dependent on counterpart funds. This approach is
currently being applied to the Federal Highways Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project.
*      The distances separating strategic planning, engineering design, and work in the field must be
reduced. At network level, the HDM and EBM are important tools for optimizing policies and
strategies as these apply to costs; however, there are still discrepancies to be resolved between
the strategies recommended by the planning specialists, engineering designs, and the
construction procedures applied in the field. Future projects should give greater attention to
this sort of problem.
*      The research component needs to be prepared in greater detail, and should be directed toward
the identification of practical solutions to the technical problems DNER faces.
*      Throughout the project, cost increases regularly occurred in most contracts, almost always
approaching the legal limit (25%, established in Law 8.666). In each case, these increases
were caused by one or more of the following factors: (1) the original projects themselves
contained shortcomings; (2) the projects became out-of-date as a result of the steady
deterioration of pavement due to traffic action; (3) project objectives were broadened to
incorporate items not originally included. Project cost control must be more stringent, and
stricter policies and criteria must be applied to the approval procedures for introducing changes
into projects and increasing contract costs.



29
*      Multiyear programs must be periodically reviewed, in light of changes in the overall conditions
of the network identified during regularly updated surveys. The project did not provide for
such reviews, and no new survey was conducted until 1995, after the bidding on the final batch
of rehabilitation works. In the next project, the eligible expenditures should include provision
for surveys every two years.
*      Continuity in the Bank's project supervision team had a positive and stabilizing influence,
during a period characterized by frequent changes in DNER's counterpart personnel.  In
addition, it was clearly necessary and important that the executing agency should have a
Project Management Unit of a size commensurate with the project, that the training and
professional development of project staff should be preserved, and that they should therefore
be allowed to remain in their positions for a longer period.



IBRD 28757
70       (                                                                        r                                        e
VENEZUELA   21  cCc):                                  FR                                                                                                        BRAZIL
2                *             >--,-->\           8  <  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~( SURINAME (GUIANA                        o       250      5         750      100     0 BD RKA  Z I L
0          1?0~~~~70          0KLDEU
CO0LO0M BI A                 2~                              ,   ySUINAE GIAN                                                     23                                                HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
|.. vo        >                                                        "I         700 K0                    A09iES           AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
!--2'1 X \ RO2A{Md \sr-- - > AMAPd ~~~~~~~~~~(LOAN  3169-BR)
ROAD SEGMENTS REHABILITATED
.(    'A T L A N T I C O C E A N              eq             UNDER THE PROJECT
ROAD SEGMENTS REHABILITATED
Mon1oos    >  o                                                  9< -ntins  Pennnor m  iba {gssiO tUi                       =        UNDER THE PROJECT
A                                    -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERAL HIGHWAYS
/^_- A   M   A   Z  O    N   A S / p A R A -5__ AiripirlEoriolsxa , .                                                                                             HIGHWAY  ROUTE NUMBERS
Z , 0   N   A   S  >  A    Residente ol,             K$ ca b        Ar  uS c wl  P     N ~~~ O R TE                 c     SELECTED   CITIES    A N D   TO W N S
(                '                ,/                                     j   : M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARANHAo  I .      CEARA.' r'
/               MARANHAO~~~~~~~~~<       ICEARAAI ~~~~~~~~~ ofot                       P~~r.   STATE CAPITALS
'/I< H-0umoP"'IPAPAIoA 7'                                         E           7          E   .                                                NATIONAL  CAPITAL
57   ~ ~ I ~~                                           ReaIA U I              -STATE BOUNDARIES
\  A C R E  N- Seno oodureirr  _.o     t>  -- -  - -  '>                                 DSor                               ' w S-    1   ,;rseo MoX '4ERNA.MSUCO          ---   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
e-,.,   3     0.08tan:,j                                   <                                       fan        t         a")       ,,UP^h_ ettat,na i6
I&           ~~~~Mop Design Ul.' of TIh. Ward Bank
P  E  R  U   X   k R O N D 6 A r,  ANT O                i ro0 C|A`N r IN s                                 _1 , ,     A  H  I A +   +  }ffi\iERGIPE  TIre boare, con. dennror,nn
\RONDON   .4    T_C(AN TINS 8 rro Ao                                                        H  1 A N,                                               and anyter nrmatnaaa A  H  I A  S
PERU                                                                                                                                                                                         At, Bap do Lot Iingly. on tIe pAr- A f l-  -
I                                                                                                                              The W-en at acpt -   t
j  p A  C I F I C   9                                  S r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao Io-orr  AAon                   -T LsANcrI cOCEN                                                       rd ar,n,
G  R' 0   S   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~O7a   >  OASaC,q,.2 np 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _d-l d1 ,> .-pt caif
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~Son .80tlr  ata                                                                  PeneSeor <>,   S  VENEZUBL  ?GOYANAioontitr;          
B.- d         a.F. D.RAI9
BOLIVIA                   -a-                   -~~                      hr.a'are,  ~ry~kGr oAIaJ_,jSIAIILIA
K   ~~~~~~tetlo e $ta                                                     (~~~~~~~~~~~~G -   R A I Sa r o o                                  V EN E U EL      ,TEyA NA M G I N
.cr                                          ,$CB  n LoI7V I A
-~~~ ~~~~~g;;~~~~55Q    N  o. rropo.tr>  home)                            EON                    '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`~INC GUAN
N  c-f                I.  ST~~~V,.                    ... en   SAO
N,,,  ponro~~~~~oraYt  ~~~~                             a,,RIODEfJANEIRO
---S           -'.  ~~~~PARAGUAY   I                              -      4Po          RodenroOLIc rAral
CHILE                    ~~MtAA                                              ~       . Sne                                                                 AII 
PACIFIC                                                  )tcreacaoe      A7Jr..                                                                          OCEAN        N     >7AOAOLAY~~'21  ACIFI
~~~A  CIFIC                                                                                                                                                                   _j~~~~~~~  TL N ICCRE 
OCEAN  (                         /      at   ;opecoatdotnatle          ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~          ATLANTICEA
y-1 R-SANTA CATARtNA                                                                                           AGNIAALNI
9                         Sonro Rosa -  N              Ploniond~~~~1.6-pol.,                0  C  Ef A  N
J"-~~RIO JkANOE   ~~T berae                                                               UBBJOBSJAP ~ OCEAN
A RGE N TI NA                        -"'IR O             %RANEtdSl
r  ~.  DO 5W-' Port AIl,gn
N,  WI   ~~~~~~~4eateVtt6nredePdr,ntin                C                                  r                     lit   .                       JUNE 1007~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUE 99












