Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4A/ 3/6'  Se
Report No. 8308-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department I
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Novo Cruzado (NCz$)
US$1           X  NCz$ 1.462 (June 1989)
This exchange rate has been used throughout the report unless otherwise
indicated.
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 Meter (m)           a   3.28 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (Ki)      -   0.62 mile (ml)
1 Kilogram (Kg)       a   2.20 pounds (lb)
1 Metric Ton (Mton)  =   2,205 pounds
1 Liter (1)           X   0.26 US gallon (gal)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABDER       - Associacao Brasileira dos Departamentos de Estradas de Rodagem
Association of State Road Departments
BNDE'       -  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Bank for Economic and Social Development
DER         -  Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Estatal)
State Roads Department
DNER        -  Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Federal Roads Department
ERR         -  Economic Rate of Return
FEPASA      -  Ferrovia Paulista S.A
- Sao Paulo State Railway
FHA         -  Federal Highway Administration -  U.S. Department of
Transportation
GEIPOT      -  Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
HDM         -  Highway Design and Maintenance Model
MT          - Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
NDP         -  National Development Plan
PMS         -  Pavement Management System
PORTOBRAS   -  Empresa de Portos do Brasil, S.A.
Brazilian Port Enterprise
RFFSA       -  Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.
Federal Railway
SAC         -  Sistema de Administracao de Canservacao
Routine Maintenance Management System
SEPLAN      -  Secretaria de Planeiamento
Federal Planning Secretariat
SEAIN       -  Secretaria dos Assumptos Internationais
Secretariat of International Affairs
STN         -  Secretaria de Tesouro Nacional
Secretariat of the National Treasury



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table ot Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJTECT SUMMARY ...........................                       1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.                                                        4
A. The Transport System.                                                   4
B. Economic Relevance of the Sector.                                       6
C. Transport Policy.                                                       6
D. Institutional Frmework.                                                 6
E. Sector Issues.                                                          7
F. The Bank's Experience and Strategy in the Sector .11
III. THE PROJECT .12
A. Project Origin    ..12
B. Project Objectives    ..13
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement    ..13
D. Project Description    ..13
(al Institutional Strengthening Policy Reforms Plan .14
(b) Investment Component .18
E. Project Cost and Finaroing            ....................  21
F. Economic Justification and Project Risks    .            .22
G. Project Risks    ..24
IV.  PROJECT EXECUTION.        ..............................................  24
A. Subproject Selection, Preparation and Evaluation .24
B. Project Implementation and Monitoring .25
C. Procurement and Consultant Services .26
D. Disbursement, Accounts and Audits .27
This report is based on the findings of missions to Brazil during the
period November 1987 to July 1989 composed of Peter Gyamfi (Task Manager)
and Otto Raggambi (Sr. Highway Engineer). Jean Zlaude Sallier (Sr. Highway
Engineer), Jacques Cellier (Sr. Transport Economist), Robert Goodland
(Environmental Expert) and Gregg Speier (Consultant) participated in the
appraisal mission in July 1989. Ms. Miriam Allen assisted in producing the
report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be clisclosed without World Bank authorization.



(li)
Page No.
V. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................... 28
VI.  TABLES
2.1  National Road Network (1987) ............................         ......... 31
2.?  DNER's Annual Budgets ........................................... 32
3.1  DNER's Expenditure Program .     . .................................... 33
3.2  DNER's Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program .................. .   34
3.3  First Year Rehabilitation Component             .     .     .     35
?.4  Design Standards for Sao Paulo-Curitiba Road ................... .   36
3.5  Highway Safety Campaign and Black Spots           .    .    .    37
3.6  Pavement Marking Programs .     . ..................................... 38
3.7  Estimated Project Costs .      .......................................  39
4.1  Project Implementation Schedule               .      .     .      43
4.2 Allocation of L'oan Proceeds .     . ................................... 44
4.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .    . ........................... 45
ANNEXES
1.  The Federal Highways Organization .............................. 46
2.  Sector Planning and Monitoring ................................. 48
3.  The Financing of the Highway Subsector ......................... 52
4.  The Road Transport Industry ..................................... 58
5.  Environmental Component ........................................ 70
6.  Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector ........................ 76
7.  Immediate Training Needs of DNER ............................... 82
8.  Long-term Training Needs Study ...........                       ....................... 89
9.  Highway Research Program ....................................... 91
10. Maintenance of the State Road Networks ......................... 93
11.  DNER's Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program ............. 96
12.  Highway Safety Program ......................................... 99
13.  Details of Economic Analysis of Investment Components .......... 103
14.  Selectea Documents and Data Available in the Project File ...... 109
CHARTS
1.  Implementation Schedule for Transfer of Responsibilities ....... 110
2.  New Organigram for the DNER .................................... 111
3.  Schematic Illustration of Sao Paulo-Curitiba Road ....    ......... 112
MAP
IBRD 21878:  BRA.'IL - Highways Management and
Rehabilitation Project



BRAZIL
ROAD MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Federative Republic of Brazil
Pro3ect Executing       The Ministry of Transport (MT) and the
Agencies:             National Roads Department (DNER)
Amount:                 US$310 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Proiect Obiectives:    The project is one in a series of roads projects
designed to assist in modernizing the road
subsector's organization and mana8ement and in
strengthening its agencies. Its main objectives
are: (a) to help in redefining the federal highway
network and the responsibilities of the federal and
state agencies thereon; (b) to assist in
restructuring and strengthening the DNER for its
leadership and coordinating role in the roads
subsector; (c) to contribute to the maintenance,
rehabilitation and improvement of roads in the major
transport corridors; (d) to improve policy
formulation, strategic planning and coordination for
the entire sector; and (e) to develop and improve
compliance with environmental standards in the
transport sector. A proposed follow-up State
Highways and Feeder Roads Project (FY91) would help
strengthen the management and maintenance capacity
of the state highways agencies.
Project Description:   The project would consist of:  (A) an institutional
strengthening and policy action plan; and (B) an
investment component. Part A would support: (a) the
strengthening of sector planning, coordination and
policy formulation; (b) implementation of the
reorganization of the management of the highways
subsector and strengthening of DNER;
(c) continuation of adjustments in highways cost
recovery and the improvement of road safety, and
(d) formulation of appropriate environmental
guidelines for the sector and strengthening of their
enforcement. Part B would comprise financing a
slice of DNER's five-year 1990-1994 road investment
end rehabilitation program: specifically
rehabilitation of about 4,000 km of roads; widening
of sections totalling about 159 km of the Sao Paulo-
Curitiba road which are operating close to capacity;
and removal of high accident spots on the federal
network.



-2-
Project Benefits:       The project would:  (a) by improving the efficiency
of highway sub-sector management and operations and
of transport sector planning and coordination, help
to increase the benefits from future investments by
directing them to high priority areas, (b) help
reduce transport costs on the most trafficked roads
in support of agricultural and industrial
development and of exports and (c) improve
mitigatory measures that would reduce future
environmental costs. All of the project's physical
components would have economic rates of return
ranging between 162 and over 1002.
Project Risks:          The project's risks would be possible lack of timely
counterpart funding and delays in implementing the
project's institutional and management reforms.
Following the constitutional decision on the
redistribution of revenues between the federal
government and the states, DNER has been authorized
and is now collecting a fee on all vehicles for the
right to use the federal highway system. The
successful implementation of this toll and the
annual review by Government and the Bank of DNER's
funding nesds, as a basis for budget preparation,
should greatly improve DNER's financial position and
availability of counterpart funds. There is a risk
of delays in management reform and institutional
improvements, especially in the decentralization of
road subsector responpibilities and the
reorganization of DNER in view of the sheer size of
the road subsector and.the large number of agencies
involved, the inherent difficulties in getting an
established institution such as the DNER to give up
traditional roles and the states and municipalities
to receive new responsibilities, the protracted
negotiations that might entail and possible delays
in congression action required for the
reorganization. To lessen delays in launching the
reforms, Government at negotiations confirmed its
proposals to initiate the most critical steps. The
project would provide for technical assistance to
help in implementing the reforms, and for an annual
review of progress.



Summary Project Cost Estimate --        US$ Million--------
Local   Foreign   Total
(A) Institutional Stengthening
__..___________________________
Sector Planning                  1.21     0.52     1.73
Management                       7.34     5.63    12.97
Environmemt                      1.40     0.60     2.00
Subtotal (A)                     9.95     6.75    16.70
(B) Investment
Rehabilitation                 275.77   176.86   452.63
Road Safety                     15.76    12.53    28.29
Capacity Increase               71.80    46.43   118.23
Subtotal (t)                   363.33   235.82   599.15
Total Base Cost                 373.28   242.57   615.85
_______________
Physical Contingencies          14.76     9.93    24.69                                ,,
Price Contingencies             71.96    46.50   118.46
Subtotal Contingencies          86.72    56.43   143.15
Total Project Cost              460.00   299.00   759.00 1_/
__________________
Financing Plan:               -------US$ Million--------
______________                 Local  Foreign   Total
IBRD                11.00   299.00   310.00
DNER               449.00            449.00
Total               460.00   299.00   759.00
Estimated Disbursementst
Bank FY                  90       91       92       93       94      95
Annual:2/                 29       26       60       73       84      38
Cumulative:              29       55      115      188       !72    310
Rate of Return: About 352 based on an evaluation of the investment component which
represent 972 of total project cost.
1_/Identifiable taxes and duties are about USS 148 million.
2J including initial deposit of USS 20 million into the special accounts



-4-
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport Syste
2.01     Brazil's transport system is extensive with about 1.50 million km
of roads, about 29,000 km oi railways, 35 important dpep-water ports and
numerous specialized bulk-facility terminals, 40,000 km of navigable rivers
and a large number of airports and airstrips. About 42 of the road netivork
are federal highways, of which 782 are paved; 132 state highways, of which
some 382 are paved; and the remaining 842 are largely unpaved municipal
roads (Table 2.1). About 202 of the road network carries almost 802 of the
total interregional road traffic.  The backbone of the transport system iv
constituted by 18 major transport corridors, mostly intermodal, that car y
the country's export and import trade traffic as well as the major
interregional flows.  The modal share of frpl,ht traffic, in ton-km,
nationwide is estimated at 562 by road, 24Z by rail, 162 by coastal and
inland shipping and 42 by pipeline. Roads account for about 952 of
intercity passenger traffic.
2.02     The railway subsector is comprised mainly of two essentially
gerneral-freight railroads, the federal (RFFSA) and the Sao Paulo State
(FEPASA) railroads, the fedcrally-owned Urban Train Company (CBTU) which
operates suburban commuter rail systems in the major metropolitan regions,
and two mainly iron-ore carrier railroads owned and operated by
subsidiaries of the Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) mining group. Total
annual output is of the order of 90 billion ton-km of freight, 12 million
inter-city passengers and 600 million suburban commuters. Over the past
two decades, with the development of the paved highway networks, the
railways have lost significant shares of the inter-city passenger, break-
bulk and short-haul freight markets to the competitive road transport
industry. Meanwhile, they have been given an important role in the
Brazilian economy by the development of mining and industry mainly in the
Southeast, and the expansion of the agricultural frontier to the West, away
from the major consumption centers and ports, as well as by the recent
growth of exports. The railways have therefore gradually specialized in
the transport of a few bulk productts over long hauls. However, Government
control over railway tariffs and intervention into RFFSA's and FEPASA's
operations and investments, combined with the railways institutic al
weaknesses in many areas, particularly planning, marketing and cost-
control, have led to recurrent deficits, to inappropriate investments, and
to excessive borrowings.
2.03     The federal and the Sao Paulo state governments and RFFSA and
FEPASA, however, have recently undertaken comprehensive action plans for
the financial rehabilitation and the commercially-oriented operation of the
two railroads, which are supported by the Bank (Loans 2563-BR & 2857-BR).
The railways' unmanageable debts have been restructured and partly assumed
by the respective governments. Unremunerative services, such as RFFSA's
inter-city passenger services, have been cut back or rationalized, and
efforts are being made to control costs. "Normalization" aystems have been
established and are being developed further to improve the decision-making
and Government financial compensation to the railroads for public-service
obligations. Planning, marketing and operations control and management
systems are being strengthened through appropriate organizational reform,
technical assistance and training of management personnel.



2.04     The port syst.em of Brazil includes some 35 key seaports and a few
major river and lake ports. As the bulk of the US$40 billion annual
Brazilian foreign trade is transported by sea, the effective functioning of
the port subsector is vital for the economy. Currently about 350 million
tons of cargo are handled in the ports annually, and overall port traffic
is forecast to increase at an average rate of 52 p.a. in the medium term.
This growth which will be characterized by the rapid penetration of
containerization, will require substantial investments to expand and
modernize port facilities. PORTOBRAS, S.A. (the National Port Authority),
a public enterprise under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of TraAsport, is
responsible for the overall administration of ports and watetways,
including policy formulation, planning, tariff administration,
coordination, and the control of investments and finances. The ports,
except for a few privately owned terminals, are operated by: (i) mixed
economy companies, in which the Federal Government through PORTOBRAS, owns
a majority of the equity; (ii) by State Government agencies or private
companies, under concession from PORTOBRAS; and (iii) directly by
PORTOBRAS. The Government's objectives for the port subsector include:
(i) the grauual achievement of f;nancial self-sufficiency; (ii) the
introduction of a realistic tariff policy to ensure the recovery of
appropriate costs for specific services; (iii) higher productivity through
improved port operation; (iv) streamlined orgenizatitn with rationalized                 -
administrative practices; (v) appropriate investment and operational
planning with priority given to specialized terminal operations;
(vi) improved human-resource administration; and (vii) appropriate
interfacing with other modes of transports.
2.C5     To assist in the port subsector's development the Bank approved in
May 1988 a Port Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2941-BR, US$20 million).
The project supports institutional mnd operational programs to:
Mi) establish a sound basis for developing and managing the national port
system, consistent with current and anticipated developments inl trade
markets and the transport industry; (ii) enhance the efficiency of port
operations; (iii) strengthen the management and coordination capacity or
PORTOBRAS; (iv) improve the commercial performance of individual port
companies; (v) facilitate intermodal transport processes; and (vi) reduce
the port system's dependency on Government subsidies. The project includes
three components: (a) institution building component for (i) streamlining
the subsector organization and financing; (ii) port system development and
improved planning and management and information systems; (iii) improved
cost, budgetary and tariff systems to respond to the needs of a
ccmmercially oriented port organization; and (iv) advanced in-service
training to support the implementation of the improvement programs; (b)
assistance to upgrade the research and operational capacity of the National
Hydraulics Research Institute (a department of PORTOBRAS) through the
purchase of highly specialized equipment, software for and training in
mathematical modelling and through some civil works for scale models and to
accommodate the expanded research facilities; and (c) engineering and
preparation for high priority projects to be identified as part of
improving investment planning in line with the objectives and strategies
for the development of the poft subsector. A number of the improvement
programs developed under the project would be implemented immediately in
areas such as port operations (including installation of an equipment
maintenance system and streamlined labor scheduling and cargo handling
practices), improvements in the planning of investmev's and general
operations, management information and budgetary and cost control systems,
tariff design and training programs.



-6-
B. Economic Relevance of the Sector
2.06     Total transportation expenditures amounted to US$52 billion in
1985 (equivalent to about 22Z of GNP), and road transport accounted for 862
of that total. Road passenger transport expenditures alone represented
about US$25 billion, and road freight transport expenditures about US$20
billion. Public investments in the transport sector, which accourted for
about 402 of total public capital formation in the 1960s and the early
1970s have been drastically reduced since the late 1970s with the economic
decline in Brazil and the introduction of the austerity programs. Roads
received the largest share of investments until the mid-'970s after which
railways have been given a higher priority in federal trat.sport
investments, and road expenditures have been curtailed drastically with
resulting rapid deterioration of large portions of the networks built in
the 1950s and 1960s. The road transport industr7 has grown at rates which
systematically exceeded those of GNr and other industries. Freight
transport output, measured in ton-km, and passenger transport, measured in
passenger-km have grown at average annual rates of 8.2Z and 10.22
respectively between 1970 and 1986, compared to 5.62 and 4.02 for the
industrial and the agricultural sectors respectively.
C. Transport Policy
2.07     The Government's current transport policy and strategy are
articulated in the 1988-1991 PRODEST (Programa de Desenvolvimento do Setor
Transportes), a four-year investment program and policy paper prepared by
the Ministry of Transport (MT) as an input into the National Development
Plan. The PRODEST rightly emphasizest (a) performance improvements, both
operational and financial, of the sector's modnl agencies; (b) increasing
transport efficiency along the 18 major transport corridors to improve
Brazil's export competitiveness; (c) increased emphasis upon rehabilitation
and maintenance of existing facilities as a priority over new construction;
and (d) strengthening, streamlining and rationalizing the organization and
management of the highway subsector's agencies, including gradually
decentralizing some of the federal highways functions to the states. The
Government has already taken several significant steps to initiate the
implementation of some of the above objectives including: (a) assisting
RFFSA, the national railway company, with the introduction of measures to
reduce the railways' operating deficits, to reform its organization and
management and to stxeamline its scope of services; (b) helping PORTOBRAS.
the national ports holding company, in the preparation of studies and
programs to help in rationalizing port pricing policies and improve its
organization, management and operations; (c) continuing the reorganization
of national transport planning and coordination; and (d) making the initial
decisions for the reorganization of the highways subsector's management and
administration.
D. Institutional Framework
2.08     Management of the B:azilian transport sector is split along the
three levels of government. At the federal level, sector responsibilities
fall under MT, except for civil aviation which is managed by the Ministry
of Aviation. Subsector administration, operations and planning are
delegated to autonomous agencies and parastatals operating under MT.
Highways fall under the National Roads Department (DNER, Departamento
Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem), the railways under the Federal Railways
(RPFSA), the ports under the Brazilian Port Enterprise (PORTOBRAS).
GEIPOT, attached to HT, is responsible for assisting it in transport



- 7 -
coordination aud policy formulation. At the state level, the Secretari&ts
of Traasport, reporting to the State Governors, oversee the states
transport agencies. The municipalities are essentially entrusted with the
administration of local and urban road transport. The 1988 constitution
has established the basis for a broad decentralization of Government
functions and fiscal revenues and the Government is currently reviewing the
transfer of some of <;ae federal responsibilities in the sector to the
states.
E. Sector Issues
2.09     This section concentrates on the transport sector issues that are
relevant to the highways subsector and on highway subsector issues. A
detailed background Information on the road transport subsector is
presented in Annexes 1 and 4 and the Project File.
(i) Sector-Wide Planning and Coordination
2.10     GEIPOT assists MT in transport coordination, policy formulation
and in putting together the pluriannual transport program (the PRODEST) and
monitoring its implementation. Planning units within the modal agencies
are expected to identify and evaluate the investments in their respective
modes as an input into the PRODESTs and to propose operating budget
estimates. A planning and coordination nucleus, comprising MT's modal
secretaries under the chairmanship of MT's General Secretary, is expected
to guide and review GEIPOT's work. Organizationally these arrangements are
sound.
2.11     In practice, however, GEIPOT's performance, and consequently MT's
effectiveness in planning and policy formulation, has been hampered by:
(a) insufficient guidance, control, review and assimilation of GEIPOT's
work by HT; (b) GEIPOT's overextension to studies best done by private
consultants; and (c) generally weak planning capacities of the modal
agencies. In order to bring the planning and policy activities under its
closer control and integrate them better into its operations MT abolished
GEIPOT in February 1989 and started to establish a Transport Planning
Secretariat (TPS) within MT to plan investments and formulate policy. This
action has-since been suspended and GEIPOT remains the transport sector
planning agency.  MT could still achieve the desired improvements in
planning by: (a) giving GEIPOT clearer policy and budgetary guidelines;
(b) paying closer attention to the supervision and review of GEIPOT's work;
and (c) causing GEIPOT to concentrate on studies required for improving the
quality of the PRODEST and for decision-making on sector policy leaving
others to private consultants. (para. 3.06 and Annex 2).
(ii) Reform and Strengthening of Highway Subsector
Administration
2.12     Responsibility for the administration of Brazil's road network is
divided among DNER for federal roads (about 61,000 km); the State Highway
Departments (DERs), for the state networks (about 197,000 km) and the
municipal councils for the local roads (about 1.2 million km) (Tatle 2.1).
The current strong trend towarde decentralizing federal functions to the
states has caused MT to initiate measures to: (a) gradually transtfr the
respinsibility for part of the federal road network to the states and
(b) strengthen DNER's role as a national road authority to coordinate the
strategic development of Brazil's road network, provide technological
leadership to the subsector and standardize norms and procedures, in order



to avoid tine inconsistencies in these areas which could accompany
decentralization, an4 to assist in developing the DeRs. Also DNtR's
organization, staffing and institutional capecity, well suited to
adminiqtering the massive highway expansion program of the 19608 and 1970s,
need adjustments and strengthening to match the shift in emphasis to the
management of road maintenance and rehabilitation and of traffic
operations. To this end, MT has completed two studiess (a) a review of
the size of the network to be retained by the DNER and the transfer of the
other part to the states and (b) a reorganization study of the DNER.
2.13     Transfer oi Resvonsi',ilities and Decentralization.  DNER's
ex..sting network includes roads with clear federal and interstate functions
and characteristics and roads with predominantly local interest. With the
recent shift of revenues from the federal government to the states, the
DNER should be relieved of its responsibility for the latter roads. NT is
therefore reviewing proposals on DNER's future network, based on technical
and functional criteria, and is expected to give its approval by end-June
30, 1990. The next stage would then be negotiations with the states to
accept the transferred road* %nd for congress to approve the transfer.
KT'" proposals for the final decision and transfer is included in Chart 1.
The schedule makes allowance for the strong political pressures the move is
expected to encounter and the time some states would require to develop the
necessary institutional and technical capacity to assume responsibility for
the transferred roads (para. 3.07).
2.14     Reorganization of the DNER.  The DNER's organizational study,
carried out with consultant's assistance, has recommended: (a) a new
structure more suited to its proposed future role (Chart 2); (b) increased
decentralization of operational decisions to DNER's district offices;
(c) the staffing levels required to run the agency and (d) a new salary
structure. The consultants' report is included in the Project File.
Subject to minor changes, DPER's proposed new organigram, recommended
staffing levels for the various units as well as the balance of decision-
making authority between headquarters and district offices are appropriate.
The consultants' recomendations are, however, not sufficiently specific on
staff reassignment and recruitment, which are crucial given the old age of
existing staff and technology. The proposed project would provide
technical assistance for a more detailed analysis of these aspects. MT's
proposals for implementing DNER's reorganization appropriately considers
these shortcomings and the difficulties that might be experienced with new
recruitment and salary changes (para. 3.07).
(iii) Highway Financing
2.15     Cost Recovery.  Until late 1988, road-user charges in the form of
taxes on petroleum and alcohol products, on vehicle ownership and tolls.
were assessed and collected by the Federal Government and shared with the
states and municipalities. A GEIPOT study in 1985 concluded that the
policy, structure and levels of the charges were adequate to ensure:
(a) the recovery of short-run marginal costs; (b) satisfy the Governments,
fuel -anservation o'>jectives; and (c) contribute towards the Governments'
general revenues. Trucks, however, were not paying their full share of
road costs. The situation has been drastically changed by the April 1988
decision on revenue-sharing between the three levels of government under
which tht federal level has lost its power of road-user taxation except
from the industrial products tax and each state has gained from the
inclusion of the petroleum and alcohol products and interstate and
intermunicipal transport services into the value added tax (ICM). The DNER



has also been authorized and is now collecting a monthly user-fee on all
motor-vehicle oiers for the right to use the federal highway network
(Annex 3). The details on the application of the fiscal decisions are
expected to be discussed and negotiated between the federal government and
the states over the next year or two. Whatever the outcome, however, the
federal and state governments will need some guidance on appropriate road
user-charge structure and levels and on a mechanism to permit systematic
updating of the road user-charge levels to allow their timely adjustments.
The proposed project would provide GEIPOT with technical assistance to
(a) review the levels and structure of road-user charges and recommend an
appropriate system which reflects the recent fiscal reforms in Brazil;
(b) and design and help implement a road-user cherge monitoring system that
would assist the federal and state governments' decisions in this area
(para. 3.16 and Annex 3).
2.16     Road Funding and Exgenditures.  Federal roads expenditures were                    -
funded during the 1960s and 19709 through earmarked road-user charges and
appropriations against general revenues. Earnarking was phased out in
1980, partially reinstated in 1984 and recently abolished in 1988.
Currently the DNER's road expendi ures are, by the new fiscal law, expected
to be financed from the road tolls mentioned in paragraph 2.15 and general
treasury funds. The road-user fee is expected to yield from US$400 million
to 500 million annually and, by law, is to be used for road rehabilitation
and upgrading (50?), maintenance (222), road capacity expansion (20z) and
network operation (82). The user-fee system has yielded about US$32
million equivalent per month since their introduction on March 1, 1989 for
a projected total of US$400-500 million per year.   Although the receipts
from it would represent only a fraction of DNER's annual needs of about
US$1.5 billion, it would significantly reduce the agency's chronic funding
problems by assuring a consistent flow of funds for its most important
activities. Also, legislating the distribution of funds among the various
activities would reduce the risk of diversion of the funds within the roads
subsector to benefit new construction, as well as to activities outside it.
2.17     DNER's roads expenditures have fluctuated widely over the last
decade decreasing from about US$3.2 billion in 1978 to US$901 million in
1984 and increasing again to an average of about US$1.2 billion annually
over the past three years (Table 2.3). Of the US$1.2 billion per year
being allocated recently, half is spent on fixed budgetary items such as
debt servicing (30Z), staff compensation (12Z) and overheads (6?) leaving
insufficient funds for road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance (about
US$250 million spent annually compared to about US$300 million needed) and
routine and periodic maintenance (about US$125 million spent instead of
about US$150 million annual requirements). DNER's current pluriannual road
program and budget (Table 3.1), which includes a much reduced debt-service
obligation, should be sufficient to cover the network's needs.
2.18     Funding on State Roads.  Available statistics on the states'
highway budgets show that the states cumulatively spent about US$1.1
billion per year during the period 1984 to 1986 almost equal to the US$1.2
billion received from federal government transfers of road-user charges.
However, some states, such as Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais, spent more than
twice the sums transferred to them while the Northeastern states in general
spent less than half. The chances of increased highway funding for the
states should .iow be enhanced with their increased user-charge revenues,
although the new fiscal law is silent on the use of the receipts for roads.



- 10 -
On the other hand the risk is also high that new road construction or major
upgrading would be emphasized over road maintenance activities which have a
higher economic return. In order to mitigate this, the DERs should prepare
pluriannual plans and programs for their road activities based on sound
technical and economic priority criteria.
(iv) Vehicle Weights and Dimension Control
2.19     Existing legislation on vehicle weights and dimension is adequate,
but its enforcement needs to be reviewed, streamlined and strengthened.
Difficulties with the system include: (a) suspected evasion of the
controls; and (b) the inordinately high cost of operating the system. Also
enforcement reeds to be expanded to the states. The proposed Project would
provide technical assistance to review and recommend solutions to the above
problems (para. 3.17).
(v)  Efficiency of the Road Transport Industry
2.20     Brazil's trucking industry is comprised of about 15,000 commercial
trucking firms with 252 of total fleet capacity, owner-operators with an
additional 252 of fleet capacity and own-account trucking with the
remaining half of the fleet (Annex 4). The road freight transport industry
is reasonably efficient and, until 1983, was relatively free from
governmental regulations, except those affecting safety and vehicle load
and dimensions. The Government has since introduced regulation requiring
trucking companies to have at least US$40,000 equivalent in capital, a
minimum net haulage capacity of 48 tons and a minimum area for parking,
storage and repairs of 360 square meters. The regulation does not affect
the single-truck owners or owner-operators. The Government's reasons for
introducing the regulation, which appears to have industry-wide support, is
to eliminate unreliable middlemen without trucks who contract with shippers
and subcontract to owner-operators and to promote professional efficiency.
DNER intends to analyze its effects by the end of 1990. Of concern also is
the relatively old age of the trucking fleet (about 10 years average) due
partly to truckers hesitation in investing in new equipment in the no-
growth economy of the early 1980s and, to a lesser extent, on the
propensity of owner-operators to continue with their equipment beyond its
optimum economic life due to inadequate access to reasonable credit
facilities. The proposed project provides for technical assistance to DNER
to, (a) carry out an in-depth study of the trucking industry, in
particular on the effects of the new restrictions, on measures needed te
stabilize the industry and to encourage investments in trucking capacity;
and (b) improve the information system on the industry (para. 3.17 and
Annex 4).
(vi) Government's Environmental Policy
2.21     The Government's decree No. 95.733 of February 12, 1988 directed
that any major civil works project should be accompanied by a thorough
environmental study to ensure that it has no unacceptable ill-effects on
the inhabitants in the road's influence area or on the physical
environment.  The decree further stipulates that in those projects expected
to have negative environmental impacts, the project budgets should include
funds, a minimum of 1? of total costs, to remedy the adverse results. In
order to help in overseeing compliance with the above for the transport
sector, MT has a staff member attached to the office of the General
on '                     This



- 11 -
arrangement would be strengthened, under the project by the provision of
two additional staff and conversion of the office to a unit. DNER has
developed environmental policy guidelines regarding highway development and
is working on some for the road transport of hazardous materials while
GEIPOT has been studying similar guidelines for the entire sector. To
facilitate compliance with the decree in the road subsector, the proposed
project would assist (a) DNER to finalize its environmental guidelines and
to train the DERs in their use, (b) CEIPOT to develop environmental
standards for the transport sector as a whole, (c) MT to institutionalize
the monitoring and compliance with these standards, and staff training
(Annex 5 and para. 3.18).
F.  The Bank's Experience and Strategy in the Transport Sector
2.22     A summary of the Bank's assistance to the transport sector is
presented in Annex 6. The Bank has made nine loans for highways and three
for feeder roads, four loans for railways, in addition to the construction
of an 890 km railroad under the Carajas iron ore project, and two loans for                    -
ports. In addition, 14 agricultural and rural development projects have
provided for feeder roads.  Regarding highway lending the first five
highway loans between 1968 and 1975, concentrated on the expansion of the
primary road network and the establishment of GEIPOT and the strengthening
of DNER, the National Highway Department, to plan and implement
respectively the road network's expansion. In subsequent loans, the
emphasis has shifted to road rehabilitation and maintenance, to rural roads
construction and improvement and to addressing some of DNER's key
institutional and technical deficiencies and to training highway staff. On
the policy side, the Bank has attempted with past projects to address key
highways policy reform issues. The Federal Highway Sector Loan which
initiated specific actions on motor fuel pricing and conservation, on road-
user taxation and on vehicular safety improvement, regulation and
enforcement. The Bank's involvement in the highways subsector, dating back
over 20 years, has been generally successful: almost all the projects'
physical objectives has been, or are expected to be, achieved although weak
technical and administrative capacities of implementing agencies and
difficult economic conditions have sometimes caused delays. Progress on
institutional strengthening and policy reforms have also been slow due
partly to-the sheer size of the subsector, the large number of agencies
involved, the complexity of Brazil's political system and the difficulty in
getting the needed consensus for policy reforms and unrealistically high
expectations on the Bank's part on the rate of policy changes.
2.23   The Bank's country assistance strategy is to support policies and
investments that will encourage economic growth and social development in
the context of macro-economic stability. The emphasis is on efficient
resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector, and the
appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. Lending
operations would support: (a) administrative reforms and the financial
rehabilitation and, in some cases, the privatization of the public
enterprises; (b) the rehabilitation and development of essential
infrastructure; (c) increased productivity, and the improvement in living
conditions, among the rural and urban poor; and (d) the protection of the
environment.
2.24     The Bank's transport sector strategy would support the
Government's broader efforts to stabilize the economy and to achieve
sustained economic growth through a more market-oriented development path,
as well as the Government's objectives for the sector, i.e: (a) the



- 12 -
operational and financial rehabilitation of the sector's public enterprises
and the establishment of a policy and instLtutional framework conducive to
market- driven operations and effectlve management; (b) the reorganization
of the highway subsector, strengthening the management of the highways
agencies and of the funding system to improve network malntenance;
(c) better intermodal coordination, includLng the development of the more
efficient multimodal alternatives in the main transpQrt corridors; and
(d) better balance between rehabilitation and maiutenance of existing
facilities, and new constructlon.
2.25     Priority for specific actions in the highways subsector should
include: (a) redefining the roles of DNFR, the DERs and the municipal
highway agencies and gradually implementing an appropriate transfer of
responsibilities arising therefrom; (b) gradually transforming the DNER
from a basically road construction and maintenance agency into a national
highway authority with normative functions; (c) strengthening the DERs and
municipalities especially in highway planning, road maintenance and
contract management, highways safety and in compliance with environmental
protection/eMhancement standards; (d) taking the necessary actions at the
levels of MT, GEIPOT and DNER to ensure proper sector-wide planning and
coordination and establishing within DNER the function and capacity to
(i) develop a strategic plan for the entire road network. (ii) review
investment priorities, and (iii) coordinate its planning, programming and
budgeting functions; (e) improving the competitiveness and efficiency of
the road transport industry; (f) providing the resources necessary to
remove the backlog of road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance and to
arrest further road deterioration; (g) developing environmental standards
for roads and road transport and institutionalizing the monitoring of
compliance with these standards; and (h) improving road safety measures and
axle-load control on the federal network.
2.26     The far-reaching nature of some of the above institutional and
policy reforms, the high political and human costs involved, the time
necessary to reach an acceptable consensus, especially in the current and
near future fluid political situation in Brazil, as well as the magnitude
of resources needed to meet the network's needs require that actions be
phased over a reasonable time frame and over several road projects.
Therefore highway lending to Brazil should be in the form of a series of
roads projects acting as a continuum within which the above institutional
reforms and strengthening can be gradually implemented, the policy issues
effectively addressed and adequate financial resources transferred to the
sector. The proposed project would be used to initiate or continue actions
in all the above areas; subsequent roads projects would be used to complete
them.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin
3.01     Preparation of the proposed project started in February 1987
following a request from the DNER for continued Bpnk assistance in removing
the backlog of rehabilitation and maintenance on the federal network, in
consolidating ongoing measures and policy reforms on road safety, cost
recovery, and research under the Federal Highway Sector Project (Loan
2446 -BR) and in designing and carrying out reorganization and



- 13 -
strengthening of highways subsector administration. The project's design
and scope result fror discussions between the Bank and DNER, MT. SEAIN and
GEIPOT during six project preparation missions to Brazil between February
1987 and March 1989.
B. Proiect Obtectives
3.02     The project is one in a series of road projects designed to assist
in modernizing the road subsector's organization and management and in
strengthening its agencies. Its main objectives are: (a) to help in
redefining the federal highway network and the responsibilities of the
federal and state agencies thereon, and in gradually transferring to the
states their new responsibilities; (b) to assist in restructuring and
strengthening the DNER for its leadership and coordinating role in the
roads subsector; (c) to continue maintaining, rehabilitating and improving
roads in the major transport corridors; (d) to improve policy formulation,
strategic planning and coordination for the entire sector; and (e) to
develop and improve compliance with environmental standards in the
transport sector. A proposed State Highways and Feeder Roads Project
(FY91) would strengthen the network management and maintenance capacity of
the DERs.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.03     The Bank's assistance strategy for Brazil is to support policies
and investments that will encourage economic growth and social development
in the context of macroeconomic stability. Our emphasis is on efficient
resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the
appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. The
project would sup?ort these objectives by further improving the quality of
planning and resource allocation in the roads subsector. Through its
participation the Bank would support: (a) the implementation of the above-
mentioned reorganization of the highway subsector administration and to
strengthen its agencies; (b) the improvement of the strategic planning and
coordination for the entire transport sector; and (cj the continuation of
redirecting road subsector priorities and scarce resources away from new
construction to the rehabilitation of existing high-trafficked roads and to
selected increases in road capacity along saturated major transport
corridors. The Bank has had a long-standing involvement in the roads
sector in Brazil. having made nine loans for highways and three for feeder
roads. Through this long association, the Bank has established a
leadership role and is better placed than other financing agencies to offer
assistance and guidance in modernizing road subsector management. Also,
through its participation, the Bank would ensure Lhat the various
initiatives to address road sector issues, started under the ongoing
Federal Highway Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR), would be carried through
properly.
D. Project Description
3.04     The ?rojnsed project would consist of:  (A) an institutional-
strengthening and policy action plan (3Z of total project costs); and
(B) an investment component (972). Part A would support: (a) the
strengthening of sector planning, coordination, and policy formulation;
(b) implementation of the reorganization of the management of the highways
subsector and the strengthening of DNER; (c) continuation of adjustments in
highways cost recovery and review of road transport regulations; and
(d) formulation of appropriate environmental guidelines for the sector and



- 14 -
strengthening of their enforcement. Part B would comprise a time slice of
DNER's five-year (1990-1994) road investment and rehabilitatirm program:
specifically, (a) rehabilitation of about 4,000 km of road; (b) the
widening of sections totalling about 159 km of the Sao Paulo-Curitiba road
and (c) the improvement in road safety including the removal of high
accident spots from the federal network pavement and pavement marking.
Part of the technical assistance under the proposed Highways Management and
Rehabilitation project would be for technology transfer to the DERs to be
implemented by the DNER.
Part A: Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms Plan
3.05     The actions to be taken for institutional strengthening and policy
reforms were discussed with the Government during the preparation of the
Bank's Highways Subsector Strategy Paper for Brazil and of the proposed
project. Based upon the findings the Government has drafted a series of
action programs aimed at strengthening the subsector's administration and
at resolving the major policy issues. The proposed project would provide,
as necessary, technical assistance to implement the actions. These actions
are summarized below.
(a) Sector-wide Planning and Coordination
3.06     The reforms would strengthen MT's sector-wide planning and policy
formulation capabilities and would include:
(a)   having MT give GEIPOT clearer policy and budgetary guidelines and
supervising and reviewing GEIPOT's work more closely through the
existing planning and coordinating nucleus (para. 2.10); and
(b)   having GEIPOT prepare medium-term strategic plans for the
development and operation of three major transport corridors.
The proposed project would provide technical assistance to GEIPOT for item
(b) including related training for higher-level GEIPOT staff. The scope
and terms of reference for the technical assistance services were agreed at
negotiations (Annex 2). Also at negotiations the Government undertook to
(i) carry out the actions under (a) and (b) above; (ii) exchange views with
the Bank on the plans under (b) above and incorporate the results in the
pluriannual programs for the sector beginning -ith the program starting in
1992.
(b) Reform and Strengthening of Highway Subsector Administration
3.07     The reforms would aim at transferring responsibility for part of
the federal road network to the states and reorganizing the DNER for its
role as a national road authority. The main actions to attain these would
include:
(a)   MT making a decision on the roads within the federal network to be
retained by the DNER and MT gradually transferring the rest to the
states after negotiations with the states and Congress' approval;
(b)   the Government making a final decision on MT's proposals for
reorganizing the DNER; and
(c)   strengthening the DNER with technical assistance and training for
institutional development.



- 15 -
3.08     The technical assistance to be provided to the DNER would be aimed
at assist:ng in implementing its reorganization as well as strengthening
its operational capacity in such areas as: highway planning and
pluriannual budgeting, pavement management, in traffic engineering and
management, in highway research and dissemination and in staff training
(Annex 1). The scope and tfrms of reference for these services were agreed
at negotiations.
3.09     Implementation of Subsector Reorganization:  The technical
assistance to MTIDNER would: (a) help to oversee the implementation,
analyzing and recommending necessary changes as the reorganization
proceeds; (b) detail areas such as job description and accountability which
are not sufficiently clear now; and (c) analyze in detail DNER's
recruitment needs. At negotiations the Government undertook to: (a) by
June 30, 1990, prepare technical proposals for the transfer of
responsibility of some roads in the federal network to the states; (b) by
June 1, 1991 complete negotiations with the states on the reorganization of
the road subsector and the transfer of roads to the states; (c) by June 30.
1991 submit legislation to Congress on the reorganization of the road
subsector; and (d) promptly after Congress' decision, furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comments, a plan of action to implement the Congress'
decision. It was also agreed at negotiations that the Government and the
Bank would review in June of each year during project implementation the
progress in the reform and strengthening of highway subsector
administration.
3.10     Highway Planning and Pluriannual Budgeting and Policy Fomulation:
the DNER's reorganization study has recommended measures to strengthen
DNER's capacity for road planning, pluriannual budgeting and policy
formulation. The project would provide technical assistance for the newly-
created Planning Secretariat to (i) establish its new planning and
coordination role for the high-ways subsector as a whole and to develop the
relevant procedures and methods, (ii) to develop the 1991 to 1995
pluriannual plan and budgets proposals, and (iii) to train its staff.
3.11     Pavement Management:  the project would provide technical
assistance to help DNER in (a) reviewing and improving the design of the
information to be collected; and (b) strengthening the diagnostic and
interpretative stages of its pavement management. To enhance the
effectiveness of such assistance the DNER would incorporate a qualified
pavement engineer in its Pavement Management Unit IPMC) within the Planning
Directorate. At negotiations the Government agreed to appoint the pavement
engineer by June 30, 1990 and to carry out the actions under (a) and (b)
above by December 31, 1992.
3.12     Traffic Engineering and Management:  Although the DNER has made
some significant improvements in traffic engineering over the past decade,
notably in road safety and axle-load enforcement, it is still weak on
traffic flow management along the high traffic density roads. It needs to
make more imaginative and efficient use of exclusive priority lanes,
reversible lanes and frontage on roads in urban areas. The project would
provide technical assistance to DNER to improve and modernize its traffic
engineering and to develop norms for road widening. The outline terms of
reference for such services were agreed with the Government at
negotiations.
3.13     Staff Training:  The Government's success in modernizing the
management of the highways subsector and in strengthening its staff will



- 16 -
depend significantly on DNER's ability to train its own staff and to
contribute effectively toward the training of those of the DERa. This
requires: (i) developing a sound training policy and program which
emphasizes both technical, managerial and administrative training for the
DNER staff; (ii) expanding DNER's existing training facilities; and
(iii) providing adequate and qualified manpower resources to train staff.
DNER has analyzed in detail its immediate and urgent technical training
needs (Annex 7). The proposed project would provide for: (i) technical
assistance to help DNER in carrying out items (i) and (iii) above,
(ii) domestic and overseas training for DNER staff both in the technical
and managerial areas and (iv) expansion of DNER's training facilit.es and
equipment to accommodate both DNER's own needs and the training of DER
staff. At negotiations agreement was reached wiLh the Government ont
(i) the scope and implementation schedule for the training component
including the first year training program, a list of overseas courses and
the staff numbers involved; and on the consultant's terms of reference for
developing the long-term training policy (Annex 8).
3.14     Highway Research:  The project would provide for the continuation
of DNER's research program, the most important component of which would be
a pavement performance research linked with the international highway
pavement research program (SHRP) aimed at re-evaluating pavement design
methods and performance characteristics of pavements ana ,javement overlays.
The other road research items to be financed by the project are:
(i) development of new standards and procedures for pavement and overlays;
(ii) review and adaptation of management systems for structures;
(iii) development of a hydrological data base; (iv) monitoring of slope
stability; (v) investigations into asphalt quality requirements and
properties of asphalt additives; (vi) additional research into the use of
the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM); and (vii) studies, the
details of which still need to be defined, on roadway characteristics and
driver behavior in Brazil. Annex 9 provides a brief background of each
proposed research topic. The research would be carried out by DNER's
Institute of Road Research (IPR) with the assistance of individual domestic
consultants, professionals from national academic institutions and overseas
experts. The Government agreed at negotiations that before research in any
given topic commences, DNER will submit a proposal for Bank review and
approval indicating (i) the objectives and relevance; (ii) the scope;
(iii) the proposed approach; (iv) the resources necessary, i.e. manpower,
equipment and other facilities; (v) the estimated costs; and (vi) the
intended application and plan for disseminating the results. Also, not
later than June 30, 1990, and annually thereafter, the Government shall
exchange views with the Bank on the results of the research program to that
time and DNER's proposals for incorporating the research fundings into
DNER's design norms.
3.15     Tecl:nical Assistance for DNER for State Programs:  The project
would provide technical assistance to the DNER to assist the states in
preparing and implementing their road rehabilitation and maintenance
programs (Annex 10).  The scope and terms of reference for such assistance
were confirmed with the Government at negotiations.
(c) Highway Cost Recovery
3.16     The reforms would be aimed at ensuring that the federal government
has sound highway cost recovery policies and regimes and that adequate
monitoring systems are established to permit updating the charges.
Specific actions would include:



- 17 -
(a) formulating a highways cost recovery policy at the federal
level, based on studies to be carried out by GEIPOT under the
project;
(b) carrying out a study to review the new structure and levels
of road user charges and recommending modifications in the
light of the policy under (a) above and recent developments
in Brazil's public fiscal laws;
(c) designing and establishing a syatem to monitor the adequacy
of road-user charges and prepare adjustments as neceusary to
reflect changes in roadworks costs and prices of the major
user-charge components; and
(d) making recommendations on the administration of the user-
charge systems.
At negotiations the scope and terms of reference for the studies were
agreed with the Government (Annex 3). The Government also undertook:
(a) by December 31, 1990, to complete and exchange views with the Bank on
the results of a road-user charges study aimed at developing user charges
on the federal road network which: (i) have levels which would permit at
least the recovery of short-term marginal costs, (ii) be free of
distortions detrimental to proper fuel conservation, (iii) would be updated
on a timely basis, and (b) promptly after a decision by Government on the
study's recommendations, furnish to the Bank, for its comment, a plan of
action to implement the Governments' decision.
(d) Review of Road Transport Regulations
3.17     The actions would be geared towards better understanding of the
characteristics and status of the industry, on removing any harmful
regulations and on ensuring reasonable access of the industry to credit
facilities. Specific measures would include:
(a)   reviewing, with technical assistance under the project, the
enforcement of vehicle weight controls and acting on
recommendations to reduce evasion and to minimize operating cost
of controls; and
(b)   the DNER, with technical assistance under the project (Annex 4),
carrying out an in-depth study of the trucking industry to analyze                     T
the effects of new regulations and reviewing measures to encourage
investments in trucking capacity and establish an appropriate
system for monitoring the performance of the trucking industry.
During negotiations the Government agreed to review the findings of the
studies in (a) and (b) above with the Bank by December 31, 1990 and June
30, 1992 respectively and promptly after Government's decision on the
recommendations, furnish to the Bank, for its review, en action plan to
implement the decisions.
(e) Improvement in Environmental Control
3.18     The objective would be to develop appropriate environmental
guidelines for the sector and introduce effective monitoring of their
compliance. Specific measures would include:



- 18 -
(a)   DNER and GEIPOT developing environmental guidelines for the roads
and transport respectively;
(b)   DNER strengthening its recently-established environmental unit
with at least seven full-time higher-level staff,
(c)   MT establishing and adequately staffing a transport environmental
unit within MT by the appointment of a full-time Environmental
Affairs Coordinator to head the unit and support, as necessary,
from the environmental staff of GEIPOT;
(d)   establish procedures that will require the review by DNER, from
the environmental view point, of selected major road projects; and
(e)   training of MT, GEIPOT, L'NER and DER environmental staff.
Details on specific actions on the above are presented in Annex S. The
Government undertook at negotiations to carry out actions under (a) and (c)
by December 31, 1990, complete (b) ard (d) by June 30, 1992 and initiate
(e) for DNER by June 30, 1990.
Part B: Investment Component
3.19     The project would finance a slice of DNER'S 1990-1994 road
investment program (Table 3.1). The size of the DNER program is based
on: (i) the PRODEST's guidelines, (ii) the net budget performance for the
past three years, and (iii) projected receipts from road-user tolls. The
PRODEST's guideline of 25,000 km of rehabilitation over the 1990-1994
period has been reduced to a more realistic target of about 12,500 km. The
program's projected five-year expenditure levels are consistent with the
past trend of about US$1.2 billion annually and the relative allocation
among the different road activities--27Z for paving/construction/capacity
expansion, 252 for rehabilitation, 11 for maintenance, 52 for research,
highway safety and studies and 322 for debt service and personnel
expenditures-- is appropriate.   The program is expected to be financed
from Federal Government treasury transfers (57%), toll receipts (35?) and
external borrowing (8?).  While the receipts from the last two sources are
relatively certain, the projected treasury allocations are less so. The
components included in the Bank-financed project have been selected to
participate in high-priority investments in each of the main areas of
activity: capacity expansion, rehabilitation and safety improvements. In
order to avoid a repetition of DNER's current problem of starting too many
contracts, based on unfulfilable expectations on treasury transfers, and
then suspending all activities when the funds do not materialize, the
detailed components of the program would be reviewed and adjusted annually
by DNER to reflect funding expectations and implementation progress as parc
of the pluriannual planning and budgeting process now required by SEPLAN.
The annual review would also be used to ensure an appropriate balance among
the different road activities;^ During negotiations an agreement was
reached with the Government that: (a) the DNER would present to the Bank
for its views not later than July 1 each year (i) DNER's rolling
expenditure and funding program for the following five years and (ii) the
budget proposals for the following financial year. Also understanding was
reached between the Government and the Bank that the following criteria
would be used by the Bank in assessing the adequacy of DNER's annual
programs from the policy and economic points of view:



- 19 -
(a) that the projected balance between budget allocations proposed
by DNER for construction, rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance, and routine maintenance expenditures are, for the
year in question, reasonably within the levels set forth in
Table 3.1;
(b) that in the event of cuts to DNER's proposed budgets, priority
would be given by the Ministry of Transport, in the
reallocation of the finally approved reduced budgets for the
year in question, to rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and
routine maintenance expenditu.res which would not, in that
event, be lower than 80? of the level shown for each year in
the attached table; and
(c) that all investments proposed by the DNER in its road programs
would be demonstrated to have an economic rate of return of not
less than 12Z calculated in accordance with a method
satisfactory to the Bank.
(a) The Proiect's Road Rehabilitation Componerat
3.20     The project would finance about 4000 km of DNER's 12,500 km road
rehabilitation proQram tTable 3.2). For the selection of individual road
sections to be included under the DNER program and under the proposed
project, an assessment was made of alternative maintenance and
rehabilitation policies using the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance
Model and an assumed budgetary constraint of US$300 millicn equivalent per
year for the DNER rehabilitation program.  The DNER's road rehabilitation
and maintenance program and strategy are detailed in Annex 11.  The project
roads, each of which carries over 1500 vehicles a day, havp rough riding
surfaces due to ravelling, excessive cracking, and pavement deformations
from base or subbase failure. While the most important intervention would
be the restoration and selective strengthening of pavements, the works
would also include improvement of road shoulders, road-side drainage and
erosion control of slopes. On major arterials consideration would also be
given to upgrading short sections with high accident records and capacity
constraints.
3.21     About 810 km of roads, selected as high priority using the HDM
Model and for which detailed engineering and international competitive
bidding have been carried out in accordance with Bank standards and
procedures, have been agreed upon with the DNER for inclusion in the
project's first-year rehabilitation program (Table 3.3). All the roads
have traffic exceeding 1500 ADT and economic rates of return higher than
28?. The remaining 3200 km for the project would be selected after a
second HDM analysis of the entire DNER paved network. The project would
provide for the detailed engineering of the selected roads.
(b) Capacity Increase for .he Sao Paulo-Curitiba Road
3.22     The project provides for the addition of two lanes to the existing
two in five critical sections, about 159 km total, of the Sao Paulo-
Curitiba road, one of the mos: important transport links in the country
(Chart 3). The existing road is already four lanes along 127 km of its
398 km length. The road follows a relatively flat terrain from Seo Paulo
City, passes through mountainous terrain and then through undulating
terrain on the Curitiba end. Traffic on the road ranges between 7,800 to



- 20 -
10,400 vpd with an average of about 6,000 heavy trucks. Some road sections
have as much as 701 heavy trucks. The road sections to be financed under
the project, Lots No. 1, 3, 5, 3.DA and 3.DB (See Chart 3). are currently
operating close to or at capacity (level of service D and E) in spite of
measures already taken to increase capacity such as the provision of
climbing lanes, reinforcement of road shoulders to permit passing and
rather good horizontal and roadway signing. The additional two lanes for
the sections under the project would be provided within the existing right
of way except for a 20 km section close to Curitiba where the new alignment
will follow an easier terrain. The design standards and alignment for the
additional two lanes would be basically thcse of the existing road
(Table 3.4) except for some minor rectification of alignment to improve
vehicular flow and safety. At negotiations the Government confirmed its
agreement on the alignment and design standards to be used for the
additional lanes.
3.23     The addition of two lanes to a 31 km section of the road Lot
No. 2. being contemplated by Government but not included in the project,
may run through the Atlantic forest (Chart 3). The DNER is reviewing the
possible environmental impact of that eventuality in order to either
reconsider the alignment or take mitigatory measures to reduce any adverse
impact. The proposed project provides for consultants to review the
engineering and economic feasibility, and detailed environment impact of
providing the additional lanes, within alternative alignments, including
within the existing right of way and thus avoiding passage through the
forest. At negotiations, the government agreed to: (a) exchange views with
the Bank on the above study promptly after its completion, (b) have the
DNER submit to the relevant environmental impact statement (RIMA) on Lot 2
based directly on the findings and recommendations of the study agreed
between the Government and the Bank; and (c) to not proceed with the tender
or start of works on Lot 2 before a final decision on the RIMA has been
taken by the relevant environmental authorities.
(c) Highway Safety
3.24     Continued support would be provided for DNER's Highway Safety
Program which was initiated under the Federal Highways Sector Project. The
program includes (i) analysis and improvement of high frequency accident
locations (black spots); (ii) pavement marking; (iii) video logging
(para. 3.26); (iv) the continuation of a highway safety campaign, and (v) a
review of the DNER's safety design standards. A detailed description of
the safety program is given in Annex 12.
3.25     The project provides for the improvement of about 300 'black
spots" in addition to the 400 to be completed under the ongoing Highway
Sector Project (Table 3.5). The works would be undertaken under the
proposed project either as part of the road rehabilitation program and
routine maintenance activities or under separate contracts, as apprQpriate.
The DNER has submitted to the Bank satisfactory detailed arrangements for
coordinating the identification of black spots, the design for their
improvement and the implementation of wo:ks. The Government confirmed at
negotiations that the DNER would implement the arrangements by June 30,
1990. Based on the recent reassessment of pavement marking needs, DNER's
1990-1994 program calls for the restriping of 131,000 km of the network
including the centerline, pavement edges and 'no passing" zones
(Table 3.6). In order to extend the life of markings, more durable paints
would be used on the heavily trafficked segments, ADT over 3,000, of the
network. This portion of the progcam, covering 4,300 km. would be financed
under the proposed project.



- 21 -
3.26     Both, the "black spots* analysis and pavement marking programs
have been helped by the information obtained through an advanced visual
survey methodology of the network, i.e., video logging. During 1985-1988
about .5,000 km of the network was surveyed this manner. A program for an
even wider application of the video logging system by the various
directorates of DNER has been drawn up which provides further justification
to the survey/resurvey of a about 20,000 km of the federal network under
the proposed project at a unit cost of US$16 per km. This project
component would only commence after the Bank has agreed on the information
to be collected and the method of incorporating that information into the
proposed highway information system to be established under the project.
This was confirmed at negotiations.
3.27     The start of the public safety campaign included in the Highway
Safety Program under the Federal Highway Sector Project was delayed till
early 1988 because of the difficulties in meeting the strict regulations
controlling public broadcasting/telecasting. The campaign would be
financed under the orgoing project up to mid 1989. To ensure the
continuity of the campaign over a four year period its financing from 1990
through to 1992 would be provided under the project.
E. Project Cost and Financing
3.28     The total cosc of the project is estimated at about US$759 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$299 million, based upon
June 1989 prices and including physical and price contingencies (Table on
the next page).  Detailed component by compone-t costs are shown in                             -
Table 3.7. The proposed loan of US$310 would finance 412 of the total
project cost, net of identifiable taxes and duties, estimated at about
US$148 million. The Government would finance the remaining US$449 million
equivalent. The provision of sufficient funds in DNER 1990 budget to cover
the project's first year program, about US$38 million equivalent, is a
condition of loan effectiveness. The cost estimates for the highway
rehabilitation program are based upon DNER'p and the appraisal mission's
assessment of average per kilometer, broken down into civil works,
engineering design and field supervision costs for the type of works
envisaged under the program, supported by engineering estimates and recent
contract prices. The cost of the highway safety, training and technica.
assistance components were estimated in accordance with prevailing cost of                      U
materials and services. The estimated man-month rate for local consultants
varies between US$4,000 and US$6,000 and for expatriate consultants,
between US$10,000 and US$12,000, taking into consideration qualifications
and experience required. Physical contingencies of 4? on average were
included for all civil works. Price contingencies were calculated at
anticipated changes in local ani international prices (in dollar terms) of
7.2% for 1989 through 1990 and 4.4Z from 1990 onwards. It has been assumed
that the differences in projected US dollars and local inflation rates
would be ofE3et by the Government's currency adjustments. At negotiations
the Government was reminded that the Government would be responsible for
covering any costs increases and particularly those that result directly
from its exchange rate management policy.
3.29     The foreign exchange component of the highway rehabilitation works
and the widening of the Sao Paulo-Curitiba road was estimated at 40?, based
upon the analysis of construction cost components (material, equipment,
overheads, profits and tax). These works are equipment intensive and
require substantial quantities of fuel and asphalt, of which Brazil is a
net importer. The foreign exchange cost component of local consuiting



- 22 -
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILUTATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
(USI million .quivalent)
Bank Participation
Local   Foreign   Total   USIm    of Total
I. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(a) Sector Planning
transport sector planning             0.48     0.20     0.66      0.65       80
highway subsector planning            0.73     0.82     1.06      0.84       80
Subtotal                              1.21     0.62     1.78      1.89
(b) Umnag.ment,R.orgenization,Studies
technical assistance                  1.86     0.84     2.70      2.18       80
training courses                      1.82     0.88     1.65      0.88       s0
training abroad                       0.00     0.80     0.80      0.80      100
studies                               4.16     4.16     8.32      4.16       50
Subtotal                              7.84     5.68    12.97      7.46
(c) Environment                           1.40     0.60     2.00      1.60       80
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening      9.95     8.76    18.70    10.44
II. INVESTMENT
(a) Highway Rehabilitation
- civil works                         254.92   169.88   424.70   189.88        40
- services                             20.95     8.98    27.98    11.17        40
Subtotal                            276.7?   178.86   462.68   181.05
(b) Road Safety
- civil works                          12.68    11.12    28.78     9.51        40
- equipment                            0.20      0.80     1.00     0.80        80
- servicee                             2.90      0.61     3.61     1.40        40
Subtotal                             ib.78    12.53    28.29    11.71
(b) Highway Capacity Increase
- civil works                         67.50    46.00   112.60    46.00         40
- services                             4.80      1.43     6.73     2.29        40
Subtotal                             71.80    48.43   118.23    47.29
Subtotal Investment           388.88   285.82   599.15   240.05
Base Cost(june 1980 prices)   878.28   242.67   615.86   260.49
Physical Contingencle       14.76     9.98    24.69    10.01
Price Contingencies     71.96    48.60   118.46    49.60
Total Project Cost                      460.00   299.00   769.00   810.00        41



- 23 -
services is estimated at 252, which was adjusted appropriately when foreign
experts were expected to be part of a team. The foreign exchange cost of
the elements of the highway safety and training components was estimated
item by item.
F. Economic Justification
3.30     The project would (a) ensure that future investments are directed
to high priority areas thus increasing the returns from road expenditures,
(b) help to reduce transports costs on the most trafficked roads in support
of agricultural and industrial development and exports, (c) help to reduce
the high road accident rate and (d) improve mitigatory measures that would
reduce future environmental costs. No economic rates of return were
calculated for the road safety, training and technical assistance
components since the benefits are difficult to quantify.
3.31     Road Rehabilitation Component.  A detailed economic analysis for
the road rehabilitation and backlog maintenance component of the project
was performed in two phases by DNER's HDM Unit using the Third Generation
Highway Design and Mainte..ance Standards Model (HDM III). In the first
phase, DNER used the model to predict the life-cycle costs of different
pavement management options on the entire federal network --construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance-- and selected the
combination with the minimum life cycle costs to society, including costs
to DNER as well as road users. The model measures the benefits from the
road investments in the form of transport cost savings to the economy. The
analysis in the first phase indicated an overall economic rate of return of
the rehabilitation and maintenance program of 48Z. During the second
phase, each road link selected by the first phase analysis for
rehabilitation or backlog maintenance was subjected to a more detailed
analysis using the HDH III Model. A detailed pavement condition survey,
engineering design and an updated traffic surveys were carried out for a
first group of roads (totalling about 813 km) to be rehabilitated during
the project's first year and a more refined economic analysis performed.
The consolidated ERR for the first year program was estimated at 562 with
those for individual road sections ranging between 282 and over 100X,
indicating that the proposed investments are economically justified and
timely. The methodology used in both phases of the analysis is further
detailed in Annex 13. For road rehabilitation subprojects during
subsequent years, the economic analysis would follow the above methodology.
The input and output data from DNER's analysis is contained in the Project
File.
3.32     Sao Paulo-Curitiba Road:  The economic analysis for this road,
carried out with consultants' assistance, compares the cost of duplicating
selected stretches of this road with benefits derived from savings in
vehicle operating costs, passenger and driver time savings and savings in
accident costs expected from improving vehicular flow. The consultants'
Final Report presenting the details of their observations and results are
included in the Project File. The selected sections for duplication are
those already operating near capacity for more than 4 hours daily (at
levels of service, D and E). Based on the above benefits and costs the
selected sections would yield ERRs between 24? and 33? with a combine ERR
of 252.
3.33     Benefits.  The project's benefits would be distributed throughout
the economy and the populationt the road rehabilitation component would
prevent the loss to the entire economy associated with increased vehicle



- 24 -
operating costs (vocs) and premature pavement deterioration. The initial
direct beneficiaries would be the federal government, in the form of
savings from deferred road reconstruction costs, and truck and passenger
vehicle operators in the fonm of reduced vocs. The savings to truck-
operators are expected to be passed on to productive sectors of the economy
in view of the strong competition in the trucking industry.
G. ProJect Risks
3.34     The project's risks would be possible lack of timely counterpart
funding and delays in implementing the project's institutional and
management reforms. Following the constitutional decision on the
redistribution of revenues between the federal government and the states,
DNER has been authorized and is now collecting a fee on all vehicles for
the right to use the federal highway system. The successful implementation
of this toll and the proposed review of DNER funding needs based upon a
realistic work program should greatly improve DNER's financial position and
a7ailability of counterpart funds. There is a risk of delays in management
reform and institutional improvements, especially in the decentralization
of road subsector responsibilities and the reorganization of DNER, in view
of the sheer size of the road subsector and the large number of agencies
involved, the inherent difficulties in getting an established institution
such as the DNER to give up traditional roles and of the states and
municipa.ities to receive new responsibilities and the protracted
negotiations that might entail and possible delays in congressional action
required for the reorganization. To lessen delays in launching the
reforms, Government confirmed its proposals to initiate the most critical
steps at negotiations. The project would provide for technical assistance
to help in implementing the reforms and for an annual review of progress.
IV. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. SubproJect Selection, Preparation and Evaluation
(i) Highway Rehabilitation
4.01     Sub-projects (road segments) of DNER's 1990-1994 highway
rehabilitation program (Table 3.2) would be selected according to economic
priorities using the HDM III model and the Expenditure Budgeting Model
(EBM). Details of the subproject selection and evaluation methodology are
presented in para. 3.31. The DNER, prior to initiating engineering design,
would prepare for each selected segment (subproject) a technical and
economic data sheet, providing information on (a) analysis carried out and
the rational for selection, (b) road condition and traffic data,
(c) recommended engineering solution, (d) estimated cost, (e) the result of
preliminary economic evaluation, and (f) the proposed schedule of
implementation. The recommended engineering solution would be consistent
with the policy selected for the network-level analysis of the road
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance program as a whole, including the
timing of investment. The Bank's decision on the approval of engineering
design would be based upon a review of the data sheet.



!
25 -
4.02     After completing of detailed engineering for a subproject, a more
refined economic analysis reflecting more accurate traffic projections and
final cost estimates would be undertaken, and an updated data sheet would
be submitted to the Bank for its approval of the inclusion of that
subproject in DNER's highway rehabilitation program for implementation and
financing under the project. During negotiations, it was agreed that DNER
would follow the above procedures and criteria for subproject selection and
evaluation and that all investments included in its rehabilitation program
would have ERRs exceedJng 122.
(ii) Safety Component
4.03     The selection of high accident locations, 'black spots", in the
federal highway systems would be carried out by the Transit Directorate
based on accident records and video log results. The evaluation of
alternative improvement options would be carried out by the Directorate of
Engineering with consultants' assistance. A data sheet for each proposed
site improvement would be prepared containing information justifying, both
technically and economically, the proposed road safety subproject and
should be made available to the Bank on demand for its review. Only 'black
spots' improvements estimated to yield at least 12Z ERR would be financed
by the Bank. The works would be carried out by contract under the
supervision of the maintenance directorate. A coordinator has been
appointed in DNER to oversee the entire 'black spotsn program.
4.04     The selection of a road section for the Pavement Marking Program
would also be the responsibility of the Transit Directorate. A data sheet
would be prepared for the section of road for which line marking is
reconmended, presented to the Bank for its assessment and concurrence
before its inclusion in the program under Bank financing. The sheet would
provide information on traffic, the rehabilitation/overlay plans for the
road and the estimated cost and schedule for marking.
4.05     In order to ensure an early start o,f project implementation, the
project items to be implemented during the first year of the project
together with their economic justification were agreed with Government
during negotiations.
B. Project Implementation and Monitoring
4.06     DNER, through its various directorates, would be responsible for
the execution of the project, except for those technical assistance
components which come under the purview of MT/GEIPOT, as follows: The
Planning (Engineering)l Directorate would undertake the subproject
selection and detailed engineering and the Maintenance Directorate
(Maintenance Division) will do the contracting and field supervision of the
Highway Rehabilitation Program; (ii) the Construction Department (Works
Division) will be responsible for the Sao Paulo-Curitiba road (iii) the
Transit Directorate for the Highway Safety Program; (iv) the Road Research
Institute for the technical training and highway research programs: and
(v) the Planning Directorate (Engineering Directorate) for the technical
assistance components with the support of the various directorates involved
in the particular discipline. GEIPOT would be responsible for the sector
planning and highway cost recovery components. The DNER has successfully
implemented about six road projects with the Bank including the almost
1/ Names in parenthesis refer to those of proposed reorganized DNER unit
which will assume the functions.



- 26 -
completed Federal Highway Sector Project which has essentially identical
components as the proposed project. To coordinate project implementation
the DNER would continue to use its Office of Coordinator of External
Financing, which has competently coordinated the implementation of past
projects. The Coordinator would continue to report directly to the
Director General. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
4.07     The implementation of all the various elements of the project
would be monitored through quarterly progress reports which would be
prepared under the direction of the Coordinator of External Financing, in a
format satisfactory to the Bank. Furthermore, at least two semi-annual
meetings in June and in January each year would be held between the
representatives of the Borrower and the Bank to review progress of and to
reduce or remove possible impediments to project implementation. During
negotiations, performance indicators for project monitoring purposes were
agreed (Annex 15). It was also agreed that the Borrower would provide
information, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, for such monitoring
purposes.
C. Procurement and Consultant Services
4.08     The mode of procurement under the project would be as follows
(amounts in parenthesis financed from the Bank loan):
International     Local
Competitive   Competitive
Bidding       Bidding
Total
Project Element               ICB            LCB        Shopping      Other   Costs
------------------ (USS Million) ------------------
Civil Works
Road Rehabilitation        132            392           --          --      524
(55)         (156)            __         --    (211)
Sao Paulo-Curitiba         139             --            --         --      139
(55)            --            --         --      (55)
Safety Program              --             29           --          --       29
--          (11)            --         --      (11)
Training Facilities         --              1           --          --        1
--           (1)            __         --       (1)
Goods                          --             --             1         --         1
--     --          ~~~(1)        __      (1)
Services
Studies/Supervision         --             --            --         49       49
(20)     (20)
Training and Technical          -                                      16        16
Assistance                  --             --            --       (11)      (11)
Totals                     271            422             1         65      759
(110)         (168)           (1)        (31)    (310)



- 27 -
4.09     All civil works contracts expected to be valued at more than
US$7.5 million would be procured on the basis of Internstional Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement
(Hay 1985). Civil works contracts below US$7.5 million would be procured
under LCD procedures which were reviewed by the Bank during appraisal and
found satisfactory. The value of individual civil works contracts is
expected to vary between US$1.0 and US$9.0 million for rehabilitation
(total costs about US$524 million), up to $20 million for the Sao Paulo-
Curitiba road (total costs about US$139 million) and not more than US$1
million for the highway safety and physical training facilities (total
costs about US$30 million).
4.10     Miscellaneous equipment and tools for the training program and
road research (total costs about US$l million) in packages not exceeding
US$50,000 would be purchased by local shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations. LCB procedures would be used for contracts for
goods exceeding US$50,000 and below US$250,000 in the event that such
contracts were to come up during project implementation.
4.11     All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more and all ICB and the first two LCS contracts for civil                       -
works, would be subject to the Bank's prior review of bidding documents.
The balance of contracts would be subject to random ex-post review by the
Bank after contract awards.
4.12     Consultants for detailed engineering, construction supervision,
highway safety and training programs and for carrying out studies under the
technical assistance component of the project would be selected and engaged
following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
Owing to the high composition of modern technology transfer in the
technical assistance component for the DNER, the procedures for consultant
selection would be carefully monitored to ensure the necessary
participation of foreign firms and experts. The above procurement
arrangements (paras. 4.08 through 4.12) were agreed with Government at
negotiations.
D. Disbursement, Accounts and Audits
4.13     Within the 50? of cost sharing, net of taxes and duties, the Bank
would disburse: (a) 40? for the Sao Paulo-Curitiba road and for the highway
rehabilitation and highway safety programs; (b) 40? of local cost for goods
and 100? of foreign expenditures; (c) 40? of total cost of consulting
services for studies, engineering and supervision (for rehabilitation and
safety works) for domestic consultants and 100? of foreign expenditures for
others; (d) 802 for total cost of technical assistance by consultants
residing in Brazil and 1002 of foreign expenditures for other consultants;
(e) S0Z for the training program and highway research by consultants
residing in Brazil and 100? of foreign expenditures for others: and
(f) 100? of expenditures for staff training abroad. The allocation of loan
proceeds for the various loan categories is shown in Table 4.2.
4.14     Retroactive financing would be provided for expenditures on road
rehabilitation works expected to start on October 1, 1989 and on the study
of Lot 2, the road-user charge study, the trucking industry study and the
technical assistance for DNER's traffI7 engineering and road design norms
reor&anization up to a total of about US$10.0 million. The early starts
are necessary to prevent further delays in the award of contracts already
approved by the Bank, in the case of the rehabilitation works, and to



- 28 -
permit early submisslon to Congress of recommendations in the case of the
studies and technical assistance.
4.15     In order to reduce the interval dur3ng which DIER would finance
the Bank's share of project cost with its own resources, a Special Accnunt
in US dollars would be established in the Central Bank of Brazil to cover
local currency expenditures. The amount deposited in this Special Account
could be increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project
executlon, but would not exceed US$20.0 million. A second Special Account
in US dollars with an initial deposit of US$500,000 would also be
established in a commercial bank abroad to cover foreign expenditures. The
Bank would replenish the Special Accounts for the amount of withdrawals on
account of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower. To ensure
timely availability of counterpart funds, it was agreed during negotiations
that the federal treasury would use STN's system of advance funds
allocations to Bank-project implementation agencies that have been agreed
to for some ongoing Bank-financed projects in Brazil. DNER has adequate
accounting control to enable disbursement to be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures. Supporting documentation with respect to
expenditures against contracts valued at up to US$5.0 million for civil
works and US$100,000 equivalent for goods would be retained by DNER, be
available for inspection during project supervision missions, and be
subject to auditing by DNER's external auditors. Expenditures for
contracts above these limits would be documented.
4.16     Based upon experience with similar projects considered in the
relevant standard profile for highway projects, the implementation period
for this project is estimated at six years (Table 4.3). This estimate is
further supported by the five-year full implementation period of the
similar ongoing Federal Highway Sector Project in Brazil.
4.17     Regarding the Bank's requirement on auditing, it was agreed during
negotiations that DNER's accounts, including the project accounts,
financial statements, Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures,
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that
audit reports for each financial year would be furnished to the Bank within
six months of the closing date of the audited period.
V. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations agreement was reached on the following:
(a) the provision of sufficient funds, about US$38 million, in DNER
1990 budget for the project first year program as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 3.28);
(b) arrangements for strengthening sector-wide planning including the
terms of reference for technical assistance to support MT and
GEIPOT (para. 3.06);
(c) execution of a road-user charge study by December 31, 1990, and
promptly submiss'on to the Bank, for its comments, of an action
plan to implement the Government's decision (para. 3.16);



- 29                                                         1
(d) execution of a study for DNER's vehicle weight control program and
exchange of views with the Bank on the results by December 31,
1990 and prompt submission to the Bank. for its comments, of an
action plan to implement the Government's decisions (para. 3.17);
(e) execution of a trucking industry study and the exchange of views
with the Bank on the study's results by June 30, 1992 and
submission promptly to the Bank, for its comments, of an action
plan to implement the Government's decisions (para. 3.17);
(f) (i) establishment and adequate staffing of an environmental unit
within MT, by December 31, 1990, strengthening the Environmental
Unit in DNER with at least seven full-time, higher-level staff, by
June 30, 1992, (ii) completion of guidellnes for road transport
and other transport modes by December 31, 1990 and initiating the
review by DNER, from the environmental vievpoint, of selected
major road orojects and of training of MT, GEIPOT and DNER
env.ror.-ental staff by June 30, 1990 (para. 3.18);
(g)  the terms of reference for technical assistance for implementing
DNER's reorganization (para. 3.08) and the review by the Bank and
Government in June each year of the progress in implementing the
reorganization (para. 3.09);
(h) improvement in data collection. analysis of pavement condition and
interpretation of results by December 31, 1992 and appointment of
a pavement engineer for DNER's pavement management system by June
30, 1990 (para. 3.11);
(i, agreement on terms of reference for institutional strengthening of
DNER in pluriannual planning and budgeting, traffic management,
environmental control and assistance to states (para. 3.08);
(j) procedures for Bank approval of IPR research topics and
incorporation of results in DNER's no-ms (para. 3.14);
(k) presentation to the Bank for its views, not later than July 1 of
each preceding year, (i) DNER's rolling expenditure and funding
program and (ii) the budget proposals for the next financial year
(para. 3.19):
(:) first year program of the project and the economic justification
of the elements in the program (para. 4.05);
{n)  agreement on the alignment and engineering standards for
duplicating the project sections of the Sao Paulo-Curitiba road.
and conditions to be satisfied before proceeding with ronstruction
works on Lot 2 (paras. 3.22 and 3.23) and DNER not starting the
video logging program until the Bank is satisfied with the
information to be collected and how it ties in with DIIER's road
information system (para. 3.26);
an, DNER's implementation by June 30, 1990 of the arrangements for
carrying out works on "black spots, (para. 3.25);
(o) procedures for subproject selection for road rehabilitation
component (para. 4.02);
(ol project implementation arrangements (para. 4.06);



- 30 -
(q) project monitoring arrangements (para. 4.07);
(r)  procurement arrangements (paras. 4.08 through 4.12);
(s)  disbursement percentages (para. 4.13);
(t)  Special Accounts arrangements (para. 4.15); and
(u)  project auditing requirements (para. 4.17).
5.03     Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$310 million with a   rm of 15 years,
including a grace period of 5 years, at the stanoaL.  ,ariable interest
rate. Retroactive rinancing of up to US$10 million for the road
rehabilitation component and selected studies and consultants technical
assistance would be recommended ipars. 4.14).



- 31 -
BRAZIL                       Table 2.1
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REMBILITATION PROJECT
---------- ----------  - _  --------------- --
National Road Network
_______.._______
(Length in Kin)
I.Characteristics of the National Road Network
e----------so------_--------_---------
Federal 1/ State 2/ Municipal 9I  Total    I
e       55  feOOeese          en -n
Paved      47433   74800         95    131748      8.8
Gravel     11487   77500                 88987     5.9
Earth       2300   44700    1234532 1281332    05.3
Total      61220  197000    1244047 1502267   100.0                           r
x          4.1    13.1         82.8   100.0
2.Characteristics of the Federal Road Network
Surface Condition(paved Roads) 4/
-----------------_-------_--_-----
Excellent    Good    Regular    poor very Poor
Length      9676   10103        16364    9060    2229
2           20.4    21.3         34.5    19.1      4.7
1/ Source:DNER 1986 Excluding roads under paving (3359KR)
and under duplication (146Km) making a total
of about 65,000 Km
21 SourcetABDER 1986
31 Sources DNER/Consultant 1987
4/ Sourcet DNER 1987/1988
July 1989



- 32 -
Table 2.2
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DNER's Annual Budgets
-.                                      (US$ Million)
Uz  a     n?s  J                u    Am            oam  Am                  Z no 1L
-         ote;1;*a'                          I"       19,       an       1n        1011      1ii   tIS      ago      EN         I-
%e  b-ate.  aa".  e        Md   Vaf;te      us        M&        ISe        4        7s       at      a      as       INl       221
-    Cono t;os wan ft-e.                    40S       SO!.       31      s1t       10        293    17s    IV        1          1S
-    Stld;.,d0ee*D;s                          31       25        20        10        4         a      i       a        3        Ls
-    Other.                                  14tt     12        $31       '02       0t1       92     SO      48      t0o        is
Debt sep.;ic                             603       452       438      26        257       316    320   3J6        303       20
.rat;.g Puf..d                            515     4s6        304       121       6?        65     57      Go       6         60
Pe-so.,e    Comm..et;c"                   160      165       162      10       1S?       1tS     9s    125        128      140
0ther Coo tl to eI 'd.d;ares/             6e6      711       582        40       0         12    it       14         1       13
Totel                                   N   &AU 3J        j2 4 ;  fl 1                  M 0 U   3M  LAI  L.ZU
bSdgeterp Allocetien                       71      206       20        304      675       753    5W      733      So0    1.074
a" Resources IJ                           120      121        94!/     dy4       d5        25      6 2    20       19        14
NtWoel Rtoad Fund ,                     1.191       34       62         63       *-                                         172
Loa"Costs                                U2    an    m                 an        i    a.  MA   s    ai    to
eSan                                    26        i6        IT        16       35       139    143     62        37        74
tO                                       -                       *        --      --                             o        14
Other.                                           ZL    m            an    if    U                       _        -    3m
Nation.'l tn      n"s  P'Ime               --       -         34       21        63        20     97               e         33
Preges  Pud                                9s       88       6so       74        73        62  5,         36        4
other  eceieta .                        1.378    1.229       63       44         At        23     24      34       29       t1
LILA  Lin   Lini  LUB   Lan   I.M   ni  un  &.&O  LZ
June 1989
3, t.is    r te';  woetn  hege.  t
3/ *wd Peetlffo ter.          ere.,
IV LiX ftedl Ues
A/ Comfivestee Ui esi    , *ther. redvue's I.e.n so-.od. Get



- 33 -
Table 3.1
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
----------------------------------------------
DNER's EXPENDITURE PROGRAM (1990-1994)
(in USS million)
I.Expenditures         1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     Total
Constr/Paving/Capacity           164      274       326      402      491     1657
Rehab.iPeriodic Maintenance*     307      291       312      301      289     1500
Routine Maintenance              150      143       135      126      115      669
Highway Safety                    15        15       15       15       15       75
Studies/Rechearch                  5         5        5        5        3       25
Others                            45        45       45       45       45      225
Sub/Total (US$m)                 686       773      838      894      960     4151
Debt Service                     214       183      165      165      165      892
Current Expenses **               70        74       77       81       85      387
Personnel                        130      130       130      130      130      650
Sub/Total (Us$m)                 414      387       372      376      380     1929
Total US$(m)                    1100     1160      1210     1270     1340     6081
II.Receipts
_______________.__________
Budgetary Alloration             625       659      687      721      761     3453
Toll Receipts                    385       406      423      445      469     2129
External Borrowing                90        95       99      104      110      500
Total US$(m)                    1100     1160      1210     1270     1340     6081
* Including About US 98 Million for Design and supervision
** Of which about USS 43 Million for Maintenance By Force Account
Source:DNER
June 1989



34 -
Table 3.2
BRAZIL
NIGIWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REUABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation/Overlay/Resealing Program
1. Physical Targets
KM
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  Total
Slurry Seal              4634   4831  5382   4634   4831  24312
Surface Treatment         3103   2949   3009   2726   2576  14363
Overlay CA-5 cm           1100   1023   1096   1084    976   5279
Rehabilitation CA 7.5cm   992    978    952    941   1010   4873
Rehabilitation Type I *   440    391    473    474    441   2219
Rehabilitation TypeII**    18      18     25     24       0     85
2. Financial Targets
US$ million
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  Total
Slurry Seal                25      26     29     25     26    132
Surface Treatment           61     S8     59     53     50    281
Overlay CA-S cm             56     52     56     55     50    268
Rehabilitation CA 7.5cm    88      86     84     83     89    430
Rehabilitation Type I       73     65     79     79     73    369
Rehabilitation Type II       4      4      6      6      0      20
Total (US18)         307    291    312    301    289   1500
* Rehabilitation Type IsBae course of 15 cm plus 5 cm C.A.
** Rehabilitation Type IlsBase course of 15 cm plus 10 cm C.A.
Sources DNER
June 1989



-35-
Tablo 8.$
1OAZIL-
NIGH AYS MANAgEMENT AM R1NASIU.TATI04 PROJECT
Fir"t ftsr  hablllittloe Component
Totel     Of which  Of which  Of which   Co"   Traffic
LOT a      E            U4NK           Lnogth  Coot (U5)   tohab)ilt. Improvemet Asphalt ;Ab)/ft  ADT  136
I 816  PA Barre-fr -!,   v.PA-VA       7o.0  5,489,20   4,136,119    21,649 1,846,064  70,41?  1000 I=
2 1o  MtA ktr*st,                     124.5 12,9106,11   0676.,74   670,025 2.612,0022 104,067  2200   41
8 101  PF  6r                 e e      46.0  12,607,627  8,106,J7  61,829,471 1,462,61t  275,05  U500   a8
S 101  IA  En .t 0(0/1     , *         41.0  4.111.699   2,576,08,   700,601    ?,26o  102,000  2540   e1
1o 824  6A   tORlIO/Zalva.P(4-ien.)a   84.0 16,077,061   ,065,472 7,216,462 1,70.737  448,406 10000   6s
11 101  AL VAt.A14801Eat. R104 o        20o  4,184,440  2,264,07?   176,66    00o0,712 11,01   4065  12 4
12 m    CE Sobral/Ent.UR104             74.0  6,142,860   5,W7,769   215,S63   1,0       110,032  11wo   85
14 110  MO Diw.SA-MO/Ent. 1857          90.0 14,mS1,484 12,184,613          0 2,296,621  162,640  S86    eo
17 376  VS  nt.61R18./Jopoi             64.0  5,116,787   8,140,064     5,004  ,104,560  04,1   1570   at          WA
16.1  e9  PM  Olv.J-'R/JQtealnho          35.6  11,000,543  6,207,3W  2,067,622 1,914,012 169,200  2600   2
16.2 Set  tR  Olv.SP-PR/Jataulnho         66.7  18,802,444  0,509,108  4,251,440 2.017,601  100,68  2000   g
t1 262  SC Chapeco/Pinhelainho ,        45.0  6,172,780  4,064,714   688,002 1,464,024    7,17   2200   42
24 158 U 0 Alvoredu/nt.00446            72.n  6,77m,768   5,028,041    44,208  1,710,624  63,709  2250  149
Total   812.9 119,900,145 73,176,215 25,206.576 21,520,352 141,681
O." Including provision for dupilcation of 15 Ka CUS$ 7.)
*   Including provision for construction of third lneg (us$ 7.1.)
I          I    Network Ratlo
Region   Km       USS    3USt Toros   KaTrue   KeTarm
Norh   194.5 16,441,018         15.4      28.9       4.4
Northest   221.6 44,484,476        87.0       27.8      29.0
Southeast    00.0 14,685,484        12.2      11.1      80.1
South   160.8 80,-74,717        28.5      22.2       20.0
Centrnl-set   126.3  1 l0,505          9.9       15.5       .16.J
Total   812.9 119,906,145      100.0     100.0      100.0
Soureas DNER
July 1060



- 36 -                           Table 3.4
BRAZIL
RIOWAYS MWARGEMENT AND REWZLITATION PROJECT
Sao Paolo-Curitiba Road
... 05 _55   -----------
Geometrical Standards
LOT No
nan as on a           OCean a canoes      a a Ca nan__.._.. a______
P.ramstUers      1     2**     3      4       5   112e12   SODA   SODS
---------sbaO   -----a    .....    --s-- a.s n s   as,     aa      O O
Desip Speed(Ma\h) 80       60    80      100    1to    80       80      80
3oadway(m)         2*3.6  2*3.6  2*3.6  2*3.6  2*3.6  2*3.6  2*3.6   2*3.6
Shoulder (a)         3      3      3      3       3     2.5    2.5     2.5
Safety Lane (I)     0.60   0.60   0.60    0.60   0.60   0.60    0.60    0.8
Median*              A             A      A       A      A      B        B
Horiz.Hinim.Radius  191    132   312    375    375    345    210        210
Max.Gradient (X)     6      6      4      5       5      6      6        6
* Likely dominant width: Type A 7.4m ; Type 8 3.00 m.
* Tentative values
_,__._______________
Source: DNERIMLBsion
July 1989



- 37 -                    Table 3.5
BRAZIL
HIGEWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ElLmination of Black SpotsjVideolog Component/Safety Campaign
-i--Pive-Year Program---
A.Black Spots Component         Patal         NO of NO of  Total
-------------------   Lengh Accident    Accident Black   Cost
I.Civil Works             Km  Index  ADT   1987   rpot    USS
-.-----_-__----___ -_-    ----- ------- -- -         _____ ______.__
Available Portofolio                                  45  1,078,600
Blumenau-S.H.D'Oeste      576  0.215  2280  1158.00   13  4.795,400
Rio Parati                185  0.212  2860   561.00    5   273,700
Recife Iaceio             23?  0.210  4013   483.00   13  1,138,400
Volta Redovda T.Rio       123  0.202  3500  1321.00   19   865.800
Unidentified                                         201 17,24d,100
Subtotal                                             296 25,400,000
2.Services
_____._____._________
Analysis,Engineering                                      2,600,000
Total                                  28,000,000
B.Video Logging Component                                  3,700,000
-------_---------.----_
C.Highway Safety Campaign
TV                                                        6,000,000
Press                                                     1.800,000
Radio                                                     1,400,000
Miscellaneous                                                800,000
Subtotal                                                 10,000,000
Total Program (A+B+C)                                     41,700,000
-----------Five-Year Project-
Fatal        NO of  NO of  Total
A.Black Spots Component  Lengh Accident     Accident Black   Cost
1.Civil Works             Km   Index  ADt   1987   Spot    USS $
_____________________    -----     -------     ----     --------     -----     _________--
Available Portofolio                                  45  1,078,600
Blumenau-S.M.D'Oeote      576  0.215  2280    1,158  13  4,722,100
Rio Parati               185  0.212  2860       561    5   273,700
Recife Macelo             237  0.210  4013     483  13  1.138,400
Volta Redonda T.Rio        ., 0.202  3500    1,321   19   865,800
Total (Base Cost)        1,121                3,523   95  7,000,000
2.Servicee
-_--------.-.--..----
Analysis, Engineering                                    2,000,000
Total A (Base Cost)                                  9,000,000
B. Videolog Component
Filming/Processing     50,000                              700,000
C.Highway Safety Campaign
TV Campaign                                              2,500,000
Total Project(A+D4Z)                                 12,200,000
._._____O__---**-C-gO*_
Sources DN@1 I Mission
July 1989



-38 -                             Table 3.6
BRAZIL
HIGIWYS MANAGEMENT D REEABILITATION PROJECT
Pavement Marking Component
------Painting Type-------
1.NEEDS                  Typel   Type2 Type3 Type4   Total
Network (km)             27,700 11,900 5,750 4,650   50,000
Frequency (Year)              1      2      3     5
Annual Needs (1m)        27,700  5,950 1,917   930   36,497
Area (m2/Rmt                200    200   350   350
Unit Cost ($1m2)           3.55   6.05  8.00 13.00
Unit Coat (C/Km)            710  1,210 2,800 4,550
Annual Needs (USSm)       19.67   7.20  5.37  4.23    36.46
5-Year Needs (Km)       138,500 29,750 9,583 4,650  182,483
Rehab Program (Km)       35,000  6,230 7,510 2,390   51,130
Remaining Needs (Km)    103,500 23,520 2,073 2,260  131,353
II.dive-Year Program
Physical Targets (Km)    10,000 12,000 2,073 2,260   26,333
Financial Targets (USSm)   7.10  14.52  5.80 10.28    37.71
III.Project
--- --------------------
Physical Targets (Km)                  2,073 2,260    4,333
Financial Targets (USS.)                5.80 10.28    16.09
Bank Participation(US$m)                2.32  4.11      6.43
Criteria Grid    -----------------------------
-------------    Life(years)of  Distibution C3)
Type  Lie     ------  -----------------------
of   of      Running  ADT NetworTraffic
Paint Paint    Surface  (000) In Km In Veh Km
___a   __      -------_----    a--- a a a __ ____
I     1          3     <2     56    26
II     2         <3     2-3    24    20
III     3         >3     3-5    11    19
IV     5         >05    ,5     9     35
Source DNE
June 1989



-39-
RAZRI.                       ~~~~~~~Table 8.7
Fe" I of 4
WIffIWYS UANAUT AM  I       TATION PROJECT
TMT0 PROECT COST
CUSS aIllI tooqielent)
I. NIOSAY RENSILTATIO  COMWIT W PRJCT
eer 1e   YeaVeu I  eoe 4 TVer   Totl
D0t1 led Enginering
Length (K)               9D0  1,000   700   447   800 8,847
sber Cost (USIa)        1.80  2.00  1.40  0.39  0.60  0.09
CivilI Works
Length (KM.)
B1d84  (group l)           1   80    41       0     0   618
(Oroup A)                 0    90   4J2   87        0   9
(eGoup 6)                 0      0   100   480   420 1,000
(aoup C)                  0      0     0   230   420   700
(arop D)                  0      0     0     0   447   44T
Totel t(k)                01   460   678 1,186 1,237 8,660
Be" Cost Q(D)
OId $-4  (group 7)     12.00 57.60 60.40  0.00  0.00120.00
(Growp A)               0.00  9.00 48.20  7.o0  0.00 90.00
(amoup )                0.00  0.00 10.00 48.00 42.00 100.00
(Group C)               0.00  0.00  0.00 26.00 42.00 7O.00
(Grmup 5)               0.00  0.00  0.00  0.0  44.70 44.70
Total Sae Coot         12.00 66.60 108.60 118.60 126.70 424.70
supervismion
Leongth (K)               61   460   678 1,18  1,237 8,060
los Cstb (Uses)         O.C0  8.88  5.16  B.69  .44  21.24
T0oAL(Werke.er"lee)    14.40 71.90 110.16 120.86 186.74 452.68
Physloal Continge sleo    0.U8  1.92  2.94  8.21  8.62 1.06
Pnanolol Contig-oieels    1.04  6.57 16.5C0  6.46 u.n  6.86
Toel Componb (US)   15.62 6.42 181.66 150.06 175.06 555.07
Souros OhE/iloilon
A t 1



- 40 -
BRAZIL                      Table 3.7
------                      Page 2 of 4
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
---------------------------------------_------
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
______________________
(US$ million equivalent)
II.HIGHWAY CAPACITY INCREASE
____________________________
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Total
Civil  Works             ------ ____-    ------  ------  ------  ------
Lot NO 1      (39.15 Km)   3.34  8.00   8.90   2.00   0.00  22.24
Lot NO 3      (28.00 Km)  2.51   6.02   6.69   1.51   0.00  16.73
Lot NO 5      (48.9 Km)    5.57  13.37  14.85   3.34   0.00  37.13
Lot NO 3-DA   (23.12 Km)   2.82   6.76   7.51   1.69   0.00  18.78
Lot NO 3-DB   (19.94 Km)   2.64   6.34   7.05   1.59   0.00  17.62
Total Base Cost           16.88  40.50  45.00  10.12   0.00 112.50
Supervision
Lot NO 1      (39.15 Km)   0.17   0.40   0.45   0.10   0.00   1.11
Lot NO 2 *                 0.10   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10
Lot NO 3      (28.00 Km)  0.13   0.30   0.33   0.08   0.00   0.84
Lot NO 5      (48.9 Km)    0.28   0.67   0.74   0.17   0.00   1.86
Lot NO 3-DA   (23.12 Km)   0.14   0.34   0.38   0.08   0.00   0.94
Lot NO 3-DB   (19.94 Km)   0.13   0.32   0.35   0.08   0.00   0.88
Total Base Cost            0.95   2.03   2.25   0.51   0.00   5.73
TOTAL(Works+Services)     17.83  42.53  47.25  10.63   0.00 118.23
Physical Contingencies     1.72   4.11   4.56   1.04   0.00  11.43
Financiai Contingencies    1.29   5.06   7.96   2.13   0.00  16.44
Total Coqnponent (US$m)    20.84  51.71  59.77  13.80   0.00 146.10
* Provision for additional technical studies
Source: DNER/Mission
November 1989



I
- 41 -
SMUt                                     Table 8.7
Page 8 of 4
HWAUYS lMAUMIT AND   IUITATIO PROJECT
ESTIMATED POCT COST
(US11 1IIom equva lent)
U1.H11AY SAFETY
Yea IYear 2 Yer 8  er 4 Year  Total
(a)Siak Spot
(l)Analysio and ngia.   0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.40  2.00
(II)CIvII Works         0.86  0.70  1.40  2.10  2.46  7.00
(b)Nighwpy "atey         0.50  0.50  0.50  0.50  0.60  2.50
(c)Video Leg             0.14  0.14  0.14  0.14  0.14  0.70
(d)Pavemmnt marking      0.80  1.61  L.22  4.68  S." 6    0.00
Subtotal Be"m Coat USIa   2.10  $.86  S.6"  7.97  0.12 16.2@
of which Civil  Wrks     1.1F  2.81  4.62  0.09  6.00 23.09
of *bleh services        1.04  1.04  1.04  1.04  1.04  5.10
Physical Ceetingsies    0.06  0.00  0.15  0.21  0.24  0.76
Financial Contingencies   0.16  0.41  0.06  1.60  1.56  5.01
Total Component (USS.)    2.42  8.66  6.79  9.9g  11.91 84.06
MT.RAINDIG PROGRAM
Year I Year 2 Yes 8 year 4 year e    Total
(a training *ouros_,     0.00  0.16  0.49  0.49  0.88  1.06
(b)Tralning abroad       0.00  0.00  0.12  0.09  0.00  0.30
(O)Coaaultent aervies    0.16  0.20  0.28  0.21  0.16  1.04
(d)CIvIl Work            0."   0.U   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.70
(.)Study on Training     0.00  0.22  0.22  0.00  0.00  0.48
Subtodtl Os.. Cot UNS    0.69   1.16  1.00  0.70  0.40  4.18
of chlic CiviI Works     O."   O.8   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.70
of which Sweic           0.24  0.61  1.09  0.70  0.40  8.42
Phyesial Conting.nl.     0.02  0.08  0.08  0.02  0.01  0.11
Financial Coatinguce.   0.04  0.05  0.05  0.04  0.02  0.10
TSUI Comnt (U_)    0.66  1.25  1.17  0.U6  0.51  4.48
Soures OUI/Mlilioe
-     MO



- 42 -
AUL                                      Table 8.?
Pag 4 of 4
HIIIAV6 WXIACEUTM AND     UILZTATION PROJCT
EMSTIATED PROJECT coS
CUSS .1le.oa qivalost)
I er l r eI Yer S Yea 4 yearI Total
(*)F_n Re  PA  PrormS 0.10  1.50  1.50  1.60  1.10   .0 0
)6EWIpe_m  for research 0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
_so  Cot                 0.10  0.60  1.30  1.60  1.60  6.00
Physical Conti gsoleo    0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
FPieancel Contingceio    0.02  0.07  0.81  0.41  0.42  1.28
Total c_poeot (USa)    038  0.69  2.lG   2.25  1.96  7.89
V.ECIOEICAL ASSISTANCE
Year I Yar   Yar   Year 4 Year   Total
Consultant Sarvicewa
Transport Set. PlannIng  0.84  0.84  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.69
Ebviroeme                0.60  0.40  0.40  0.40  0.20  2.00
Hty Subseecor Planning    0.58  0.42  0.11  0.00  0.00  1.06
. man1a_mt $ystem    0.1?  0.11  0.11  0.11  0.06  0."
H  Operation             0.09  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.08  0.10
Sta  Hey malstenanoe     0.6   0."   0.84  0.1   0.07  2.00
Total                    2.57  1.P   1.02  0.76  0.10  6."
Physical Coatimoelem,   0.01  0.08  0.04  0.04  0.08  0.11
FInacIol Ceatln.eclae   0.04  0.14  0.24  0.81  0.81   1.06
Total ca_mt CA&)    1.68  2.08  1.29  1.13  0.10  7.76
$or"  OmW/misioa
Sepember 1wo



.,aw _ine aD aman aq,na vm&,c
A1_~~~iW _A                          S       NWew  I          NW -|  @  I      NW        I      NW  
t~~-_ ___ __K_ 
I _
~~~~~~~__ _______ I                          -_____ I                 --
=~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i    I                                        -                          * 
:X ~   ~      ~       _      _         ___-
!tw  4t _6m 4nm
i-rn                                               I                                                   I       
.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 .            S
IO Fi .i OM_'"7
IMM=1_71 ...I...
,~~~~_                             _       _    _ __     _       __                _      _I                         .
06,                            -I
...~~~~~ -                                                      I                I... I --t,
U.W - =m I. t-.. i.. 
-A                                     u-i. - .
f--SUS&_ __    -t -J    -_                                                             -I
,A                                     _ _I__-,_                              __
C66  ft.   W&na. A-=-
POOrt   .0 64" _                 I                                                        .            _
--W-   -s                     -_--_-_-- ! _--   I --_ _
o"110.  *__d....II _                               
.,_~~~    ~~~ _                              a_  _  _ _
*d4*_9 ___9.......ah,A).... _ _  _.              a                a        .        * 
*__~~~~~~~~~~___   - I__ -}                                                                   i __ -
U.A  .__&N.._  *I * I            ItI                                                                          t 
;Wi__ .. .   ..
1*  . ._.  -........ .) ,  .W,.                                                                       .          .f
:: - 4 0 1-d _WI-_ II
._0. ,s I g.
b-3.-                                                     
OM. .._
_mm   _                                                                                             .



- 44 -
Table 4.2
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan Proceed of Various Categories
(USS million equivalent)
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in               I of
Dollar Million       Expenditures to be
Loan Category               equivalent)              financed
1.  Civil Works                        179.50        402 of total expenditures.
Civil Works Sao Paulo-Curitiba      45.00        402 of total expendituges.
2.  Goods                                0.80        401 of local expenditures and
1001 of foreign expenditures.
3. Consultant Services for:
a) Studies Detailed Engineering    15.80         402 of local expenditures for
and Supervision                               consultants residing in the
Borrower's territory and 1002 of
foreign expenditures for other
consultants.
b) Training and Highway Research    4.30         502 of local expenditures for
consultants residing in the
Borrower's territory and 1002 of
foreign expenditures for other
consultants.
4.  Technical Assistance                 5.28        801 of local expenditures for
consultants residing in the
Borrower's territory and 1002 of
foreign expenditures for other
consultants.
5.  overseas Fellowships                 0.30        1001 of expenditures.
6.  Unallocated                         59.02
Total                              310.00
Sources Mlsslon
September 1989



- 43 
BRAZIL                                    Table 4.3
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBDR         Estimated            Estimated             Estimated
Fiscal Year      Semester             Cumulative            Cumulative
and Semester   Disbursements           Amounts            As 2 of Total
1990
June 30, 1990              29.0                29.0                     10
1991
December 31,1990           13.0                42.0                     15
June 30, 1991              13.0                55.0                     21
1992
December 31,1991           30.0                85.0                     31
June 30, 1992              30.0               115.0                     42
1993
December 31,1992           36.0               151.0                     53
June 30, 1993              37.0               188.0                     64
1994
December 31,1993           42.0               230.0                     76
June 30, 1994              42.0               272.0                     89
1995
December 31,1994           38.0               310.0                    100
Assumptions
Loan Effectiveness: March 1990
Loan Closing Date: June 30, 1995
r



- 46-                         Annexi1
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Federal Huihwavs Organization
A. OrRanization
1.       The DNER, created in 1937, became a Federal Public Authority in
1945. A department of the Ministry of Transport, the DNER is responsible
for the execution of the national policy on road transport, primarily in
respect of the federal interstate network over which it has executive
responsibilities. Its functions include: (i) planning of the national road
system; (ii) preparation of technical and economic studies and engineering
design; (iii) construction and maintenance of federal highways; (iv)
operation of the federal network through the provision of traffic control
devices, introduction of road safety measures, control of axle loading and
the administration of freight and passenger transport; and (v) control over
the application of federal taxes on the highway system. Although legally
DNER is the financial intermediary for channeling funds to the state and
municipal authorities for road related purposes, the DNER has been unable
to exercise this function since the 1970s due to the concentration of the
national budget within the HinistLies of Planning and Finance as part of
the national effort to optimize the use of tax revenues to cope with
rising public deficits, the oil crisis and, more recently, the problem of
international debt. With the new constitution the DNER has legally lost
its financial intermediary status.
2.       DNER's current organizational structure is shown in Chart A.l.
The Central Administration, based in Rio de Janeiro, comprises an
Administrative Council, eight Directorates and various staff units, such as
legal, procurement, auditing, security and information, directly reporting
to the Director General and/or the Executive Director. DNER is represented
in each state by a Federal Highway District (DRF). The DRF's are further
subdivided into field offices or 'residencias", directly responsible for
the operation and maintenance of specific sections of the highway network.
Their duties include the supervision of construction and maintenance
contracts, traffic control, highway safety and in some cases routine
maintenance operations by force account.
3.       The Directorate of Works (Dr.O) and the Directorate of Maintenance
(Dr.Mhn) are respectively responsible for conettruction and maintenance of
the network, at head office level. The Directorate of Planning (Dr.P) is
responsible for planning, programming, budgeting, economic studies and
detailed engineering. The Directorate of Transit (Dr.T) supervises the
operation of the road system; it is in charge of the Federal Highway
Police, controls vehicle weights and axle loading, and oversees traffic
census and highway safety. The two Directorates of Transport, one for
freight and the other for passengers issue licenses for authorized
carriers, enforce operating regulations, and supervise the administration
of bus and cargo terminals. The Road Research Institute (IPR), which has
directorate level status, is responsible for road research and technical



Annex 1
- 47                            Page 2 of 2
training. Personnel and financial matters are handled by the Directorate
of Personnel and Directorate of Administration.
D. Institutional Reform
4.       The DNER was last reorganized in 1973, after its massive road
construction program of the 19609 and early 1970s, to give higher priority
to the maintenance and operation in preference to continued network
expansion. The major changes then was the creation of the Transit,
Maintenance and Road Transport Directorates. Although the results of the
reorganization have taken some time to materialize there has been a
definite increase in the emphasis and funding for road maintenance and
rehabilitation and or traffic operations especially vehicle weight control,
highway policing and, recently, efforts to reduced road accidents.
Progress has, however, been slower in the Directorates of Cargo and
Passenger Transport.
S.       The current strong trend towards decentralizing revenue collection
and federal functions to the states has caused the Ministry of Transport to
initiate measures to: (a) gradually transfer part of the federal network to
the states and (b) strengthen DNER's role as a national road authority to
coordinate the strategic development of Brazil's road network, provide
technological leadership to the subsector and standardize norms and
procedures where feasible and desirable. Regarding DNER's future network,
MT is currently reviewing the various alternative proposals, based on
technical and functional criteria, and is expected to select an alternative
soon.  The next and extremely difficult stage would be negotiations with
the states to accept responsibility for the roads and for congress to
accept the transfer.
6.       MT has also drafted a decree for DNER's reorganization based on
recommendations from a consultant's study. The draft decree outlines a new
structure (see Chart 2) which is: (a) more suited to DNER's proposed
future role and (b) decentralizes a high proportion of operational
decisions to the district offices. The most important feature of the new
DNER structure is the elevation of the existing Planning Department to
Secretariat status and the expansion of its role to cover (a) planning of
the long-term development of the entire Brazilian road network, (b) leading
the development and transfer of technology within the subsector and (c)
acting as overall custodian of the proposed highway data bank within the
DNER. MT has also drafted a law restructuring D"ER's salaries based on the
proposed job classification and earning levels i other government agencies
and in the private sector. Still left to be done are a detailed analysis
of DNER's technical and managerial activities versus relevant skill mix,
further assessment of staff profiles, age distribution and training
potential of existing DNER staff and a program for staff training and
recruitment. The proposed project would provide technical assistance for
these and for assisting DNER in implementing its reorganization.



- 48 -                      Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
BGHWAYS MANAGUERT AND REABILITATION PROJECT
Sector Planning and Monitorin
A. Sector Planning and Monitoring
1.    Background. The sector's autonomous agencies and public enterprises,
which used to be funded, particularly for their investments, with tax revenues
earmarked for specific purposes, have put more attention to physical than to
economic and financial planning. A transport planning agency (GEIPOT) was
established under MT in the early 19608 to help formulate sector polic:ies and
plans, and to assist the agencies in preparing subsectoral programs and
pre-investment studies; GEIPOT, however, rapidly grew into a de facto consult-
ing and research institution, which depends upon contracts with the Government
and parastatals for its survival. Neither MT nor the modal agencies developed
sufficient in-house planning capabilities to direct GEIPOT's work toward well
defined planning objectives or to integrate GEIPOT's plans and recommendations
into a continuous planning and monitoring process. This situation often
resulted, in the past, into GEIPOT, under contract with MT, preparing subsec-
toral programs or projects without taking full accouit of the agencies'
management priorities or of their implementation, operational and/or financial
capabilities, into less than adequately coordinated subsectoral plans and
programs, and, in some cases, into malinvestments. Some control over public
investment was restored in the early 1980s with the dismantling of tax
earmarking and the creation of SEST. But it is only recently that some
progress was made with the preparation and annual updating, under GEIPOT's
coordination, of a pluriannual program for the sector (PRODEST), which
emphasizes intermodal coordination. The PRODESTs, however, have basically
remained an instrument for consolidating the programs of the subsectoral
agencies and enterprises within the country's transport corridors. They are
still lacking the basis of an adequate analytical work to provide a clear
definition of the appropriate strategies for the major transport corridors and
of the related inter-modal priorities, which would set the framework for
subsectoral planning.
2.    Tbe main elements of a strategy to establish appropriate planning and
monitoring capabilities for the conduct of the sector as a whole, in an in-
tegrated manner, would include the following:
(a) MT needs to develop a capacity to guide and monitor the plauning
and budgetting processes in the sector, including capabilities for the
formulation and monitoring of sector goals and policies, planning
objectives and operational targets for the sector agencies, and for the
review and monitoring of the agencies' plans and programs, focussing
upon their consistency with the macro-economic and sector objectives and
intermodal coordination rather than upon specific investment and
operational decisions.



- 49                          Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
(b) GEIPOT's work program should be restructured to provide the
necessary upport to MT in the above-mentioned areas, and focussed upon
relevant sector and subsector policy issues, and upon the operational
and investment analyses required for appropriate decision making
regarding intermodal coordination in the country's major transport cor-
ridors.
(c) the modal agencies need to further develop in-house capabilities
for strategic and corporate planning. Investment appraisal criteria and
procedures for infrastructure planning should be established and more
consistently applied. Professional staff in the various operational
units should be trained, not so much in cost-benefit analysis as in
policy formulation, strategic planning, and project management and
monitoring and evaluation techniques. In some cases, limited recruitment
of experienced staff is needed, and could also be met through transfers
from GEIPOT.
3.    Subsector planning action programs along the lines defined in (c) above
are currently being implemented in the railways (both RFFSA and FEPASA' and
the ports subsectors under the ongoing, Bank-financed Federal Railway-Export
Corridor- (Loan 2563-BR), FEPASA Railway Rehabilitation (Lcan 2857-BR) and
Ports Technical Assistance (Loan 2941-BR) projects. The highway planning
action program included in the proposed project would expand these efforts to
DNER. The sector planning action program, which is described hereinafter,
would initiate actions at the level of MT and GEIPOT along the lines defined
in (a) and (b) above.
B. The Sector Plannint Action Program
4.    The objectives of the action program would be to:
(a) consolidate the organization within MT for sector planning and
monitoring;
(b) initiate a program of analytical studies and related training of
planning staff, aimed at the formulation of medium- and long-term
strategies for the coordinated development and operation of the trans-
port system, focussing first upon the country's major transport cor-
ridors in the Southeast Region (paras 6-7), the system of road user
charges (Annex 3), and upon the analysis and monitoring of the road
transport industry (Annex 4).
5.    The organization of sector planning and monitoring would be consolidated
along the following lines. GEIPOT will retain the main responsibilities for
sector planning, monitorilg and policy formulation; MT will strengthen its
guidance, review and control of GEIPOT's work programs. GEIPOT's main func-
tions, under MT's supervision, will be to guide and monitor the planning
process in the sector, including: (i) formulate and monitor sector goals,
strategies and policies, in line with broader, macro-economic and other goals
and policies; (ii) ensure the appropriate coordination of the sector agencies'
plans and programs through the development and monitoring of integrated,
pluriannual transport plans and programs, based upon appropriate analytical
studies; and (iii) promote the development of planning capabilities in the



- 50-                         Page 3 of 4
sector agencies and enterprises. The above organizational outline has been
agreed with MT and should be confirmed during loan negotiacions.
6.    The transport corridor study program would initially focus *upon the
Southeast corridors, which serve the Center-West region of Brazil. The
Center-West region of Brazil is presently Brazil's major and most dynamic
grain producing region. The production of soybeans, maize, wheat and rice
rapidly increased over the past several years through the development of new
acerradou and Opre- Amazonase areas. Between 1980 and 1986, the production of
soybeans tripled to over six million tons and that of maize increased to over
3.0 million tons; in 1987-88, the region contributed much to the 20Z record
increase (to over 65 million tons) of the country's production of grains and
oil-seeds. Government policies and targets for the agricultural sector are
putting greater emphasis on increasing food production for domestic consump-
tion, as well as on improving Brazil's competitiveness in the world market of
soya prcducts, and the Center-West region is expected to contribuite substan-
tially to this development. Although the region is served by several railway
corridors, the bulk of the grains is transported by truck over distances of
more than 1,000 km to the agro-industrial centers in the states of Sao Paulo
and Parana and to the Southeast ports for shipment to other regions in Brazil
or abroad. The lack of low-cost, reliable transport servi. s is considered to
be the major bottleneck to the economic viability and to the further develop-
ment of agriculture in the region.
7.      The Southeast corridors, which link the region to the processing,
consumption or export centers on the Southeastern seaboard, essentially the
Goias-Hinas Gerais-Espiritu Santo, the Sao Paulo-Santos and the Parana
corridors, do not meet the region's transport needs efficiently. A major
factor has been the inability of the railways to operate competitive railway
services. It results not only from the poor condition of the railways' tracks
and motive power, and from the inadequate management of their operations, but
also from the ineffectiveness of the railways in assessing and meeting                     ;
customers' actual transportation needs. A second major factor is the ineffec-
tiveness of the numerous parastatal, transport and terminal operating com-
panies involved in making the appropriate operational and strategic decisions
to provide reliable and efficient intermodal services. There are numerous
operational problems at the interfaces between the parastatals, which include:
(a) the three existing railways (RFFSA, which is under the Federal Ministry of
Transport; FEPASA, which is under the Sao Paulo State Government; and EFVM, a
subsidiary of CVRD which is controlled by the Federal Ministry of Mines and
Energy); (b) the port companies which operate terminals -t Paranagua, Santos,
Rio de Janeiro/ Sepetiba, and Vitoria/ Tubarao, and whic., to various degrees,
report to the Federal port agency (PORTOBRAS) and to the State Governments;
(c) the Pederally- and State-owned warehousing companies which operate most
inland terminals; and (d) parastatal shipping lines; and at their interfaces
with customers, the private trucking, warehousing and shipping industries, and
with a number of Federal and State Government agencies. Also, the multiplicity
of the public entitles involved as well as the insufficient coordination of
their investment strategies and programs have resulted into transport programs
and investment decisions which are not fully consistent with the region's
needs nor with its development objectives. There is considerable controversy,
in particular, over which corridors should be developed, which transport modes
should be selected, and over how the corridor systems should be operated. The
purpose of the corridor study program is to review these transport issues in
the light of the region's development potential and prospects, and to forma-



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
late recommendations on how to address them and propose appropriate medium-
and long-term strategies for the development and operation of the Southeast
corridors.
8.    The scope of work would include the following main tasks:
(a) review the development'prospects of the region and assess the
related demand for transport;
(b) evaluate the comparative efficiency of the various transport
alternatives in meeting the transport demand, review the operations of
the transport (and terminal) parastatal companies involved in the
various corridors, and recommend on how to increase the operational
efficiency of the overall system;
(c) review the investment strategies and programs in the corridors and
in their areas of influence, including the parastatals' ongoing and
planned investment programs and their economic priorities, consistent
with the region's demand for transport;
(d) discuss the adequacy of the institutional framework of the transport
system, including the organization of the public sector and the policies
and regulations which affect private sector investment and operations,
and recommend feasible strategies for institutional reform; and
(e) develop and implement a related training program.
Draft terms of reference (TORs) have been prepared along these lines and were
agreed upon during loan negotiations.
9. The organization, timing and cost of the program would he as follows:
(a) GEIPOT would carry out the above studies with competent and ex-
perienced in-house professional staff working jointly with outside
Consultants, who would be contracted following the Bank's guidelines for
the use of Consultants;                                                              -
(b) the program would be initiated by April 1990; tasks a and b would be
completed by the end of 1990, and tasks c, d and e would be completed by
the end of 1991.
(c) the total base cost of the action program is estimated at about
US$680,000, including US$610,000 for the study component and US$70,000
for the training component (Table 3.7).
It was also agreed at loan negotiations that: (i) GEIPOT would forward to the
Bank for review and comment the reports prepared under the program, in
accordance with the schedule included in the TORs; and (ii) the Government
would, taking into account the Bank's comments, incorporate the proposals in
the pluriannual programs for the sector, beginning with the program starting
in 1992.
November 1989



- 52 -                        j     3
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEIEN? AND REABILITATION PROJECT
The Financing of the HighwaYs Subsector
A. Hiahway Cost Recovery
1.    The system of road user tazes, which had been developed to finance and,
through earmarking of tax revenues for road works, to fund the road programs
of the 1960s and 1970s at the three levels of Governments, has undergone
substantial changes in the 19809. First, earmarking of revenues was gradually
phased out in the early part of the decade, as an attempt of the central
government to regain some control over public expenditures. More recently, the
new Constitution has redefined the rights of the Governments regarding
taxation, and the entire tax system is now being restructured accordingly. In
particular, the federal level has lost its power to impose taxation upon
petroleum and alcohol products and upon motor-vehicle ownership, retaining
only, as far as road user taxation is concerned, the industrial production tax
(IPI). The States gained from the inclusion of petroleum and alcohol products
and of inter-state and inter-municipal transport services into the base of the
value added tax (ICMS) and the right to tax motor-vehicle ownership. The
municipal level increased its participation in the revenues of the value added
tax from 20 to 252 and in those of the motor-vehicle ownership tax (IPVA) from
40 to 502, and gained authority to impose a tax on sales of gasoline and
alcohol (IVV) (Table 1).
2.    The impact of the fiscal reform will be important, at both levels of the
total revenues of the various governments and of their specific road user tax
revenues. The reform overall is expected to result into an increase of total
tax revenues of about 32 by 1993; the federal government's income would
contract by about 152 while those of tha States and Municipalities would
increase by about 132 and 302 respectively. Regarding taxation of road users,
the incorporation of transport services into the value added tax base could
represent a substantial increase of taxation imposed upon the trucking and bus
industries (estimated at over US$4.0 billion equivalent), but the efficiency
of tax collection is still unclear; and the ICMS now imposed upon petroleum
and alcohol products will result in a net increase of taxation, as compared to
the previous sole tax, which was reduced on diesel oil and from which alcohol
was exempted. As a result, the States' and Municipalities' revenues from road
user taxation are expected to increase substantially; as a very preliminary
estimate, we calculated that the States overall could receive over US$9.0
billion annually, and the Municipalities about US$3.5 billion (Table 2).
Federal ravenues from road user taxation, which are now derived only from the
IPI imposed upon vehicles and parts, will be reduced to about US$2.0 billion.
3.    The road user charges basically consists of the above-mentioned taxes
imposed upon road users, and of a toll, which DNER imposes on all motoz-
vehicle owners for the right to use federal highways (Table 1). Overall



Annex 3
53                            Page 2 of 6
revenues from road user charges (possibly on the order of US$15 billion
annually) should be sufficient to cover all road expenditures by the three
levels of governments, including the large rehabilitation and maintenance
programs which are now required, administrative expenditures, antd any reasona-
ble now-construction and capacity expansion program. The revenue-to-expendi-
ture ratio would be higher at the level of the States where road users would
also make a substantial contribution to the general tax revenues (Table 2).
The balance between revenues and road expenditures would also be positive at
the federal level, although by a smaller margin. There is no reliable informa-
tion available on the municipalities' expenditures for roads and urban
streets; it is reasonable to expect, however, that they are on the order of
magnitude of their revenues from road user taxes.
4.   The structure and level of road user charges should have improved as a
result of the fiscal reform. On the basis of very preliminary estimates of the
taxation of the various road user categories by type of vehicles, it seems
that all of the main user categories would now be charged for at least the
damage to the road pavement which they are responsible for, which, in the
absence of congestion, would basically equal the short run marginal cost of
road use. Trucks, in particular, which have not always sufficiently paid in
the past, could now be charged between 10 to 16 cents of US dollar per km,
which is generally considered to be the marginal cost for the most damaging
trucks (Table 3). The larger portion of the taxation imposed on trucks would
be the ICMS on freight, which is relatively well related to ton-km and
therefore to the road damage of the different sizes of trucks; the main
question, however, is whether the States will be able to effectively (and
efficiently) collect the ICMS on transport services and avoid significant
evasion, for which they might have to install and operate an extensive system
of check-points. There is also some uncertainty regarding the effectiveness
and administrative efficiency of DNER's new toll system. The reduction of the
taxation differentials between gasohol, diesel oil and alcohol is also
positive as it would contribute to correcting the distortions mentioned
earlier, provided, however, that base prices are set right; it is too early,
however, to know how municipalities will implement their new right of taxing
sales of gasoline and alcohol. A complete and detailed assessment of the new
system of road user charges should be made when the above-mentioned questions
are clearer, and an appropriate monitoring system should be established to
help identify and control the implementation of the necessary corrective
measures.
B. The Highway Cost Recovery Action Proaram
5.    The objectives of the action program would be to:
(a) make a complete and detailed assessment of the new system of road
user charges which is being established as a result of the implementa-
tion of tihs fiscal reform introduced with the new constitution;
(b) formulate a highway cost recovery policy at the federal level and
elements of a policy for the state level, and develop proposals and
undertake measures to improve the efficiency and the effectiveness of
the system of road user charges; and
(c) establish a road user charge monitoring system.



3
- 54                            Page 3 of 6
GEIPOT would be responsible to carry out this action program, with appropriate
support from DNER and ADDER and technical assistance from specialized consul-
tants or experts.
6.    The scope of work would include the following main tasks:
(a) assess the impact of the fiscal reform upon the system of road user
charges, analysing in particular the new distribution of revenues versus
respcnsibilities among the three levels of government, and the structure
and level of charges among road user categories in relation to the                   !
damages they impose to the networks;
(b) formulate a highway cost recovery policy at the federal level and
elements of a policy (or alternative policies) at the state level;
(c) develop proposals for reformulating or adjustinb the structure
and/or levels of the road user charges to improve the efficiency and/or
effectiveness of the system;
(d) organize and implement a series of seminars and workshops to
divulgate and discuss the above assessments and proposals with federal
and state government representatives, and refine proposals;
(e) design, develop and implement a system to monitor the evolution and
adequacy of road user charges at the federal, state and municipal
government levels.
Draft terms of reference (TORs) have been prepared along these lines and were
agreed upon during loan negotiations.
7.    The organization, timing and cost of the program would be as follows:
(a) GEIPOT would carry out the above studies with competent and ex-
perienced in-house professional staff jointly with outside Consultants,
who would be contracted following the Bank's guidelines for the use of
Consultants;
(b) the program would be initiated by January 1990; tasks a, b and c
would be completed by the end of December 1990, and tasks d and e by the
end of December 1991;
(c) the total base cost of the action program is estimated at about
US$410,000 equivalent, including about US$50,000 for training of GEIPOT
staff and for the organization and implementation of the above-mentioned
seminars and workshops (Table 3.7).
It was also agreed at loan negotiations that: (i) GEIPOT would forward to the
Bank for review and comment the reports prepared under the program, in
accordance with the schedule included in the TORs; and (ii) the Government
would, promptly after its decisions on the recommendations of the study,
furnish to the Bank, for comments, an action plan to implement the decisions.
November 1989



- 55 -
p..s 4 of*
Table 1
2.                                              Ib    t .
in~~~m
tax 3.l --                                                    m aT.  STAlX         NC an
a. vdala- flneeh. Ta         Aishe  ars: 5$ ear vaw  (13.  aIlt_ sra: U Ides.                0        U          O S
2.    hatoub-    1-   7  Mrih
Clpa) raotsrie    7 anl. fM dIn  hid   a  m6"leel   ~s
3. ?1na  Ori          9D61 deD.aol   a" llb                                            s.    j or
~~~~ * veileCaefU   fae. (}173 _m)  rsts)  S,ded brusles*r
4. Sobll r  1 " ,Tsm tz 0V11
givs$ og an  lcoho   faiste  (41i af fi nalm esst)in Ibert  glaia mwtsrs lee arela
VW owllas soes    (seedadinel laaused toee]ees*  fII(3
5. V.." aeVlm Ts                                          s                                lo 0       755          -
. Vehile sal es           171 a' final prig. (e  adle        M 11
* Vehiele parts mien      173 an final  eail pri e       n
. Iaterotstlm           *13       re(a l.1,11111, 1-11 
4.sisl t,snepeet esewlces  173  On tese.4gralse
* berm                173 en  (alahe.) UieselN g   n    UN l
4. hIn.Zaa. 2T  lle                  C *0.)            .1   U  e so
iMtecqele             US 5.6o   US 1.05
are. bbe              US  .17   US 2.04
ass.alidl,e   (w *sl.) Ub IISS    US 4u Sl
_-ses. tI   d Is S  gui. wl Ul SO.0o
ass  tds (4 ei.) U ?.O            UllS.2
_, les(Ia.)    1 S  .?    1853.0#
Treilere (haul.)      US o.81    556.01t
*Trler  (hesi.)       55.55    US  *.U5
(1) i_s  are f* rI tl- <ie  tsts. TertsW an ve  In eterstte.
(I) ia  .1 Pbhiepsliin    Sten  ad iasIl Itlee.l*z inlus a dar  (ineesasin  btmee  265  d              ) of iWdenl Tess.
(8  Utearin  04/16  e   re.
(8  Vs,isbe hi stt.
CS) vid fl ec Si. do J_lr. bmIeipll   (varie  bp msneielil u1 ts a *ii o1      f U)
(7  ITb  ^1 stt ta daeu  tll I- I1ssPl  (apsi cal Is tha neaem s).
bpec 166



-56 -
Pros 5 of 6
Tablo 2
H14WAYS WIMANIO T AS R IILZTATZIU  PIOJECT
Prel1minary Estlmate of Rlvenue from ltod User Chars
(In UN millions)
Tots I
Leftral  Stat    Local   em alms CuUlotiv
IPVA            -Cere                           0     270    2t1         541        628
-Trucks                         0      U       8a        72
4uee                            0    2    1               8
-lotorcycle.                    0       4       8         7
IPX  Vehicles   -Car.                        1819       0        0      1819       1s91
-Trucks                       220       0       0       220
-uss.                          52       0       0        52
Motorcycles                     0       0       0         0
IPX  Ports      -Cars                        1U8        0        0       16t       614
-Trucks                       412       0       0       412
-Buse                          46       0       0        46
lotor.,ycles                    8       0       a         8
ICUS Vehicles   -Cara                           0     950     817       1267      2559
-Trua;ks                        0     708     284       987
-Buses                          0     166      5        221
-Motorcycle.                    0     101      84       184
ICUS Porte      -Care                           0     487      162      649       2600
-Trucks                         0    1812     487      1749
uses                            0     147      49       196
-1otorcycles                    0      11       4        14
ICNS Transport  -Freight.                       0    806    1020       4060       4888
-Pssengers                      0     227      76       80o
1CNS            -Alcohol                        0     421     140        601      2878
-011m                           0     $92     197       769
-Ca.                            0     648     215       560
Lubricent                       0     122      41       168
IVY             -Alcohel                        0       0      99        99        251
4-a                             0       0     152       152
Tolle on FG&P&al Roads
-Cars                         286       0       0       298       80
-Truks                        110       0       0       110
-Sue..                          I       0       0         8
otorcpclse                      7       0       0         7
TOTAL                       26      9O5     3148      1U52
ll  rot     oMed  lalieen estimates
Septc=or 1IO



- 57 -
La ?
Table 8
Wmiays *MAHEB  AM  R9*UILITAIU  PbOECTf
Prolt-J"tw E s lqd2 of, lto gl U   C   h        l       Ee
_ralleinar. Lotluint, t had       _ harso bX Cim  ot V,h_le.
(in UIIMS I law..)
Cil of       ---          ---   --- . St- - -  -  - -L             I
vehicle     VP    Toll    t.l   JPVA ICU  Total IPVLg   Ivy Total TSUI W Ar*
Moorecle           a      7      10      4 180    14        8   44      4    5      iU    2.0
Csr/Pich up     1472    235    1707   270  1481   28    V7    620  241   182   570   8.0
BUGG              86      6     10,      2 621    028       12          0    206  087    7.7
Light truck      22      4        8     16  1714   170    16  57        6      0  262    1.?
m truck           77     84     11       4  10    1069      I  8             8"0   1ao  10.
Hawy truck       124    1i    18?        S  1591   1599    7   GM0           W    2M    1.4
Trrck-trol lee    16S    17     110          80   18s8      *  44S           45    190   19.8
TOTALS        2              256 6               gm M   U 111 nu1   m     m
Sourct  1B9 VW mimi.. estimates



Annez 4
- 58 -                      Page 1 of 12
BRAZIL
uiGoMrYS  MAN&GUEEU AND BSHABILITATION PROJECT
The Road Transport Industrv
A. The Performance and Reaulation of the Truckint Industry.
1.    The trucklog industry is comprised of about 15,000 comuercial trucking
firms, which together own about 252 of the truck fleet, and of truck owner-
operators, who operate another 252 of the fleet. Own-account trucking there-
fore represents the remaining half. About 11,000 trucking firms, which were
surveyed in 1982, at that time were hauling 280 milllon tons of cargo per
year, had operational revenues of about US$6 billion and 220,000 employees.
Trucking firms are highly specialized as to the type of market served and
service provided, including as to routes and products. Larger flrms con-
centrate their services on denser routes, while smaller firms appear more
frequently in less dense or more specialized links. Although there may be
hundreds of firms operating in a particular segment of the market, the few
larger firms hold a significant share (generally from 302 to 60X) of that
market. Owner-operators can be attached to trucking or other firms, but most
are completely independent. They generally operate older, medium-size trucks
with conventional open bodies, on medium and long distance hauls. Own-account
trucking is most important in pick-up and delivery services in the cities, and
in the inter-city transport of cargoes which require specialized equipment.
Very little is known, however, on these last two segments of the industry
(paras 2 & 3).
2.    investments by the industry, as represented by truck sales, which are
the only reliable investment data, have shown an overall declining tendency in
relation to GNP since the mid-1970s: the level of investments in trucks in
recent years is similar to that found in the mid-seventies, in spite of the
level of activity being around 50Z higher (Table 1). The fleet, however has
grown faster than GNP in all classes of except medium-size between 1981 and
1985 (Table 2). There has been substitution of medium-size trucks for small
trucks and pick-ups in the urban services, and for heavier trucks in the
inter-city services. Recently, there has been also significant improvements in
truck technology, with more efficlent engines and modern bodies, as a result
of the now stronger competltion between the four major manufacturers. There is
evidence, however, that upgrading and appropriate renewal of fleets is taking
place mainly within the large trucking firms and own-account trucklng segments
of the industry. The number of owner-operators has been decreasing gradually
since the mid-1970s and their fleet is rapidly aging; there is evidence that
many of them are unable to replace their trucks because they lack cash for
downpayments and appropriate financing is not available to them. Overall, the
average age of the fleet of trucks is increasing, which could eventually
trigger a cycle of scarce capacity and hlgher freight rates.
3. The cost structure of trucking reveals a signiflcant share of fixed
costs In the short run, allowing charges up to 402 below long run mazginal
costs. The share of operational expenses to revenues vary from 50 to 702, the



Annex 4
- 59-                          Page 2 of 12
upper limit being found in firms that operate with bulk cargoes. Total
expenses to revenues are around 91S. There is no evidence of above-normal
profits, with the possible exception of the segment of oil products, where
rates are set by a Government agency (CNP) and covered by charges built into
the consumer prices of the products, and entry into this market is restricted.
Truck rates reveal a competitive position of this mode in relation to rail
transport; they are similar to the average rates charged by FEPASA and RFFSA
(excluding iron ore rates). It should be noted, however, that these rates are
for long distance trucking while the average rail distance in Brazil is short.
Favouring truck rates are also the widespread practice of non-compliance to
limitations of axle-weight and total weight of trucks, and the low levels of
road user charges for trucks, which now might be corrected with the recently
approved fiscal reform (Annex 3).
4.    The role of the Govervment vis-a-vis the trucking industry, has essen-
tially been to provide and maintain the road infrastructure. The industry has
been largely unregulated until 1983, with the exception of the introduction of
entry barriers to foreign firms in 1980; the Government influenced operations
only indirectly through pricing and taxation of inputs, license fees and
financing (both through regulation for private financial agents and direct
financing through the BNDES Group). In 1983, however, a law was passed,
authorizing the Government to regulate the industry and, besides formalizing a
taxonomy for the above-mentioned categories of truck operators, introducing
two new important restrictions: firms involved in own-account trucking were
forbidden to sell trucking services to third parties; and the Ministry of
Transport (MT) was invested with a mandate to impose restrictive measures to
entry of new trucking firms. Restrictions imposed by MT in 1987 in fact extend
the scope of the law, establishing minimum capacity levels for commmercial
trucking firms and geographical limits to operation as well as to the type of
commodity carried. In practice, however, problems with the implementation of
the operator's mandatory register and the insufficient political support and
means to enforce legislation have so far made negligible the impact of these
restrictions.
5.    The impact of Government regulation, if it is enforced, has not been
clearly assessed. The desirability of the minimum capacity restrictions
imposed by MT in 1987 is questionable. MT/DNER representatives argue that such
restrictions would clear the profession of the numerous, unreliable middlemen
without trucks who contract with shippers and subcontract services to owner-
operators at substantial discounts. A policy, however, that would affect
indiscriminately all the various segments of such an heterogeneous Industry
would be bound to lead to economic distortions. Imposing limits to entry may
restrict undesirably the supply of services in less dense markets, unattrac-
tive to larger existing firms. Measures that foster growth of trucking firms
so as to take advantage of economies of scale may not be effective because
growth may be in fact limited by the size of the various market segments, as
empirical evidence suggests. It may be true, however, that in times of
economic recession, the practice of predatory pricing may inhibit investment
and growth. The declining supply of capacity by owner-operators, more likely
to be vulnerable to economic fluctuations, may give support to this argument.
But the increases of financial costs, particularly for owner-operators and
smaller trucking firms, which do not have access to the more favorable
financing terms offered by the BNDESIFINAME system, have also been an impor-
tant factor. An appropriate strategy regarding the regulation of the road



Annez 4
- 60.-                         Page 3 of 12
transport industry would therefore be tot (a) refrain from implementing
restrictive regulatory measures for the trucking industry; (b) carry out an
in-depth economic analysis of the trucking industry, in part4cular in its
lesser known segments of own account transport and individual truckers, and
assess the probable impact of the proposed and alternative measures to
stabilize the industry and to strengthen investment, assessing in particular
the feasibility of providing appropriate lines of credit, accessible to
individual truckers, to help finance truck acquisition and fixed installa-
tions.
B. The Road Passenger Tranosort Industry
6.    Passenger transportation in Brazil is considered a public service. Entry
in the sector is restricted by government permissions or concessions. Munici-
pal, state and federal goverments set rates, routes, frequencies, and safety
and quality standards in practically all market segments. Private enterprises
are predominant in number and hold the largest share of the market. The
majority of these firms are small to medium in size, controlled by one
entrepreneur or by a family group. In the interstate segment and in dense
intermunicipaL connections, however, there are a few firms providing services
in complex networks, operating fleets of more than a thousand buses. In the
urban segment, large firms are rare; they usually serve a strictly defined
geografical zone, operating a fleet of two or three hundred buses to the most
from a single garage. There are publicly-owned and operated firms in the
largest capitals and cities; their existence is justified by authorities on
the basis of guaranteeing services where they appear to be unattractive to
private firms; reducing the clout of these firms when negotiating for tariffs
and service standards; and of acquiring a better knowledge of passenger
transportation cost structures. Government regulation probably results in
substantial economic inefficiencies. There is, however, insufficient informa-
tion on the performance of the road passenger transport industry to make a
meaningfull assessment of the present regulation. An economic analysis of the
industry, reviewing in particular the cost structures of its various segyments,
would be required to assess the justification and feasibility of regulatory
reforms to improve performance.
C. Energy Consumption and Conservation
7.    Energy consumptLon in the transport sector is about one-fourth of the
total energy and almost 5O2 of the oil products consumed in Brazil. In order
to reduce its oil import bill, besides investing in domestic oil exploration
and production, which now accounts for about 55? of total consumption, Brazil
has, in 1980, embarked in a alcohol-for-gasoline substitution program (PROAL-
COOL). Also, the Government has generally maintained retail prices of gasohol
and diesel-oil above international prices, while keeping the retail price of
hydrous alcohol about 35? belew that of gasohol. The strategy has been
successful in reducing demand for gasoline, from 15.6 billion liters in 1979
to 9.1 billion in 1988 (Table 3). But diesel-oil consumption has continued to
increase (from 12 billion liters in 1975 to over 24 billion in 1988) as a
result of both the rapid growth of the road transport industry and the
dieselization of part of the truck fleet (para 8). The two trends combined
have led to an imbalance in the consumption and refinery production profi:es



Annez 4
- 61                             Page 4 of 12
of petroleum products, forcing Brazil to refine imported crude-oil for diesel-
oil and to export gasoline in large quantities.
8.    ?he deund for diesel-oil has consistently been increasing faster than
GNP over the past 30 years, despite a six-fold real price increase between
1954 and 1984 (Table 4). The growth of the road transport industry, which is
now responsible for over 65Z of the consumption of diesel-oil, and, to a
lesser extent, the development and mechanization of agriculture have been the
main factors. A recent study of the determinants of diesel oil consrVption in
transport has shown the high elasticity of the demand for diesel oil to per-
capita incomes, suggesting that higher-income categories tend to diversify the
consumption of goods through imports from other regions. There has also been
substitution of gasoline by diesel-oil engines in the fleets of small trucks
and pick-ups after the mid-1970s. We estimate that this substitution has been
responsible for an increased consumption of diesel-oil of abou.t 2.5 billion
liters in 1988, but also for a reduced consumption of gasoline (about 1.4
billion liters) and alcohol (about 2.5 billion liters), therefore resulting in
net savings of about 1.4 billion liters of product p.a. (Tables 5 & 6). The
substantial increases, after the two oil shocks, of the energy costs relative
to the capital costs in the cost structures of trucking have been a major
factor for this substitution, like in many other countries, the higher fuel-
efficiency of diesel engines justifying their higher manufacturing costs. But
the relative price of gasoline to diesel-oil, which the Government increased
from about 1.2 prior to 1973 to over 2.2 in 1980 and 2.6 in 1987, has also
contributed to the acceleration of the dieselization of the above-mentioned
fleets (Table 4).
9.    The potential for conservation of petroleum and alcohol products is
important. In freight transport, the potential for conservation of diesel oil
lies mainly within the trucking industry ltself, in the improvement of its
efficiency through the rationalization of routes and schedules and the
consolidation of cargoes, and in the retrofitting of truck fleets to improve
engine efficiency and truck aerodynamic performance. Some savings, however,
could also be obtained through intermodal shifts, in particular if the
railways succeed in their efforts to capture a substantial part of the
increasing demand for inter-regional transport, resulting in particular from
the densification of agriculture in the Centre-West, through offering effi-
cient intermodal services based on the operation of direct unit-trains between
specialized intermodal terminals. In passenger transport, cars, which account
for about 242 of total passenger-km, are responsible for 702 of the total
energy consumed, while buses, with 702 of the passenger-km, use only 16Z of
the energy. Contrary to expectations, lower-income household categories
account for a substantial share of car ownership and energy consumption. Thete
is evidence that the deterioration of the level of service offered by the
public transport systems is responsible for the relatively high use of private
cars, particularly in urban areas. Since the energy consumption of buses per
unit of transport is about 1/12th that of private cars, there is potential for
conservation of gasoline and alcohol through improving the level of service of
public transportation to attract private car users, in particular through
traffic management and the creation of bus lanes and corridors in urban areas,
improved frequencies and reduced bus occupancy ratios, and, where justified,
through improving rail mass transit systems. There is also scope for conserva-
tion of diesel oil in the bus industry through the rationalization of net-
works, routes and schedules. The use of natural gas in urban areas, in



Annex 4
- 62.-                        Page 5 of 12
particular for buses and taxis, might be feasible and should be further
studied and experimented.
10.   Governveut policies, especially those related to the pricing of petrol-
eum and alcohol products and to the regulation of the passenger transport
industry, should take this potential for energy conservation into account. In
particular, Governments should review their current policies which are aimed
at maintaining public transport tariffs to their lowest possible levels at the
expense of service quality, and aim instead at promoting the levels of
services which would respond effectively to the demand, through adapting the
related clauses of the concessionary agreements and through appropriate
traffic management measures and investment programs in urban areas. Govern-
ment-supported information campaigns for conservation should be continued and
possibly expanded. The most effective mean, however, would be the appropriate
pricing of the products. Although the retail price of diesel oil has generally
been kept at or above international prices plus distribution costs, the
surplus has generally been insufficient to recover th: appropriate road costs
attributable to the trucking industry (Annex 3); and it is still much below
the price of gasohol, although the gap has recently been reduced. Increasing
the price of diesel oil would be the most effective incentive for the above-
mentioned potential for diesel oil conservation in the trucking and bus
industries to materialize. Redu .ng further the price differential between
diesel oil and gasohol would also reduce the incentive for the further
dieselization of the fleet of pick-ups. Reducing further the price differen-
tial between alcohol and gasohol, as well as the alcohol content in gasohol,
and possibly gradually phasing out the PROALCOOL program, would be the most
effective means to correct the country's current imbalance In the consumption
profile of petroleum products; important issues, however, are the degree of
energy self-sufficiency which the Government wants to maintain and the cost-
effectiveness of the PROALCOOL program versus domestic oil production to
achieve such self-sufficiency objective. Such alternative pricing strategies
should therefore be evaluated in the broader context of Brazil's energy
strategy, taking into account their impact upon the transport industry, which
should be assessed on the basis of the above-mentioned analytical work.
D. The Road Transport Industry Action Progran
11.   The objectives of the action program would be to:
(a) acquire an adequate understanding of the characteristica and
performance of the road transport industry, and of the effects on the
industry's performance of the recently-introduced reforms of economic
regulation and of taxation of the industry, and of the energy pricing
policies;
(b) propose and undertake app.opriate corrective actions to maximize the
performance of the industry.
For that purpose, DNER would, with appropriate technical assistance, in
parailel, carry out an in-depth economic analysis of the industry and develop
and establish an adequate monitoring system for the industry.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 12
- 63 -
12.   The scope of work would include the following main tasks, which have
been organized into three phases, so as to first carry out the enonomic
analyses whlch can be done on the basis of the information readily available,
then supplement this information as necsseary and finally complete the
required aalysess
(a) the first phase would consist oft (i) an analysis, based upon
readily available information, of the performance of the industry and of
the impact of the recent policy changes, regarding in particular the
regulation, taxation and financing of the industry, and the formulation
of preliminary policy reconmmendations; and (ii) the conceptual design
and preliminary specifications of a performance monitoring system for
the industry, including the definition of DNER's detailed responsibllit-            |
ies, work program, procedures and methodologies for analysis, and the
required information system;
(b) the second phase would consist of: (ii) the development and implan-
tation of the monitoring system, including on-the-job training for DNER
staff; and (ii) the collection and preparation of the required data for
the third phase;
tc) the third phase would be the completion of the above-mentioned
economic analyses and policy recommendations.
Draft terms of reference (TORs) have been prepared along these lines for the
first phase and were agreed upon during loan negotiations.
13.   The timing and cost of the program would be as follows:
(a) phase one wo;:ld be initiated by January 1990 and completed by the
end of December 1990; phase two would be implemented in the course of
1991 and phase three would be completed not later than June 30, 1992.
(b) the total base cost of the technical assistance for the three phases
was estimated at about US$640,000 equivalent (Table 3.7).
It was also agreed at loan negotiations that: (i) DNER would forward to the
Bank for review and comment the various reports as scheduled in the terms of
reference; and (ii) the Government would, promptly after its decisions on the
recommendations of the study, furnish to the Bank, for comments, an action
plan to implement the decisions.
November 1989



.. I. ,...   ..g.... .    S   I        
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
8  .. ..... .        63|ltil       l    !:fiXlliiXE|l!
----------------------------------          g------------------------------
~~ I  tuBal   ~ ~ ~ ~~~I.' *00000ofu000*tPogfhli
--   --------- f-------------------     --     --   -------------- ----------------
i-             -     ---
. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~     .  I .                                                  I
I  OOOOOO--- --- --- ---000000 osI-- -ffi !j--   -     --    ----------------- -
-------------------         --    -- -Ii--.------------{
I|  iSIiit3IIU||I55gfhllg8i            i!                                     11
I .. 



-65 _                                        ae4                 i
Table I
WA=L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
HIMY nAMO  AW MMZnTIN eMAT
Ctl,*s  of rOU-Volel  Fef by1  Class  lol-gm
CLUAS         1960   I 16I    am            i1          164    I 1w j 1  
cm                 7IK2    766210   6047   P64167   910647   SWISS  106U6    103237 0  1064461113
BUSES                103104    116       1207    1            129947    130710    1WO4       141404    151630
PICKOUPS             676430    ?OW1       750600    311061    661372    OOt200   097014   10302    102 1612
M- T                           6260U *49U5  S0 6    09712    050714    9M0006    10306    1074616   1108012
- Deost al           elms  I  OS1X1    09et2    S22M1    9S2U30    072901   1Ot2884  lQ110488   110lJ77
I - "oil          1477o1  160094    167709   1723    16232    201336    23715    230s10    2619t0
- Z' dtu                     4744612   466409s ,3042    50165    441061    490267                     M 5001
I - Smi-hoevy        126406    140401  IS1060       150        167254    176040    20760      222176    23J016
I     Heavy           70S30      61s12    56449     0 0016      01159     03l0       0018    10870?    10Qt95
. Nof--pecifled     4206       4217      423       4252       4270      4144       4144      4144      4144
m- Iportd             7170       7172      7101       712       7164      61U        613       0135      6IN
Soureas Anuarlo Estatlatleo dea Transportes,  EIPOT 10M, and misslelon' esmteO
September 1989



- 66 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 12
Table 3
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MAAGUIENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONSUTPTION OF PTROLU( AND ALCOHOL PRODUCTS. 1976-1988
(thousand cubic meters)
YEAlR               DIZSEL              GASOLINE             ALCOHOL
1974                 10740                11222
1975                 11995                14617
1976                 13798                14722
1977                 14847                14101
1978                 16165                15249
1979                 17641                15647
1980                 18892                13411                 430
1981                 18281                l1810                1388
1982                 18706                12456                1676
1983                 18454                 9970                2993
1984                 18999                 9977                2993
1985                 19789                 9567                5932
1986                 22346                10957                8206
1987                 23589                 9656                8721
1988                 24424                 9165                9653
Soure:t National Energy Balance
September 1989



- 67 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 12
Table 4
BRAZIL
8IG9WAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
REAL PRICE INDICES FOR GASOLINE AND DIESEL-OIL. 1954-1988
REAL PRICES (CUS JAN.89)                    RATIO
YEAR                                                         GASOLINE/
GASOLINE         DIESEL                    DIESEL
1954                 183              6Sl                      2.64
1955                 233              76                       3.07
1956                 221              72                       3.06
1957                 229             138                       1.66
1958                 223             133                       1.68
1959                 205             162                       1.27
1960                 165             130                       1.27
1961                 251             183                       1.37
1962                208              161                       1.29
1963                 209             162                       1.29
1964                 217             174                       1.25
1965                 265             208                       1.27
1966                237              188                       1.26
1967                219              180                       1.22
1968                 229             189                       1.21
1969                 254             209                       1.21
1970                250              207                       1.20
1971                257              214                       1.20
1972                 274             232                       1.10
1973                274              228                       1.20
1974                 421             244                       1.73
1975                 510             272                       1.88
1976                 599             288                       2.08
1977                614              327                       1.88
1978                 576             316                       1.82
1979                 589             352                       1.67
1980                809              358                       2.26
1981                814              414                       1.96
1982                720              423                       1.70
1983                 668             425                       1.57
1984                624              430                       1.45
1985                567              395                       1.43
1986                516              201                       1.84
1987                639              244                       2.62
1988                511              244                       2.09
Sources National Energy Balance and ssion estimtes
September 1989



- 68                                    Ann-4
pog is of 11
SEARED.                                    Table 6
N171 W          lADIAI  AND 11ISII'ATION rEACT
Cotiate  of l nrg C.esmtie. by ReWa V#,lel. FlOt
Y"re      care  picb-u    bas   emal   md1 1  _1-ho Na hlvy   Total
A. FLET (In _sbod)
UP" 1974    am0       10                t0       60      10       10     m40
1911-79    I'm       10                70      160      70       40    2300
1"*-"      100       10       10       s0       s0      s0              15390
19-        amO       600     1aO      10        70     110       s0    4010
Tot  I     10000    110       1SO      10       40      #30      120   12400
B. D0I1UON By PROCT w1 at ete )
UP"O 1974
Eg.       t100     100 Uo                     46
X diell                        100      45       52     100      1o0
A aleob
1076-79
3gm       1oo       a0                9       It
U dieel               t10     100       91       e      100      100
I ailcoh
Igae       69       a                          8
dlemol                45     100      100       96      9       100
S aleoh      $1       20                         2       4
IgPs        7        9
E dilel                32     100      100       96      90      100
' alcob      98       6o                         4       4
Totl
i oe       68       48       0        7       17       0        0
Sdiemel        0 a     1       100 o    98        2      97      100
s *Iob       nS       32       0        0        1       a        0
C. ADJAL MILAGE (tboueaad ha/year)
ga. eare      12
a*1 other     1o      1i       s0       40      60       90      100
0. AVMAE wINT CINSWTION (141001)
on       11       is               t0       16      so       so
dill                 10      20      1i       1i       to       40
alsolol      14       1o               as      s0       45       a
E. TOTAL UET  UANUAL CONSUMTION (bIllIon I Iteep .O.   N)s              87.3
gaoolm      6.7      1.0     0.0      0.1     0.6      0.0      0.0     9.6
dil_l        0.0      0.6     1.6      1.4      3.6     *.U      4.6    17.5
alcohol%/    9.9      1.4     0.0      0.0     0.8      0.1      0.0    11.0
oerso  O NO,  OT1, Tnoerto M.rao, Ialee" Esrptice Nelienl 197.
I/ Including both anbydiec (In gaohol, 201) and hydr   ethanol.
3pt  lNo



- 69-                                   Anne  4
oeg Is of 12
BRAZIL -                                   Table a
WZIWYS MAAGM       AND REILITATION PROJECT
Estlmateo of nergy Conaumption by Road Vehielo Floet
(samming no further dleel!antlon of flet after 1974)
t p v e kt a
yere      care  pick-ups  bunse    ml l  mdium  eem-heow  bhvy   Total
A. FLEET (In thousand)
upto 1074   a0        200                g0       g0       20       10    3840
1075-70    1750      250                70    10         70       40    2850
1900-62     12       200       10       50       60       sO       20    1590
1014  8s5            600      IN       1to       70      11o       so    4610
Total       10000    1250      130      25       400      ago      120   12400
B. DiO    TONBY "S  OiUCT (U of total)
upto 104
Igas       100     100                B5       40
S diesl                        100       45       52      100      100
S l.coh
19075-7
gas       100     100                s0       50
S dlesl                        100       so       so      100      100
S slco
19042
as*       69       66
1 dlesl                        100       60       SO       90      100
S alcoh      81       45                50       s0        4
IgPe         7      s0
X dieel                        100        0       60       96      100
S al"h       98       70                50       s0        4
Total
Sp"a       s8        o        0       1i       88        0        0
X dlael        0        0      100       50      6so        7      100
I alcb       87       41        0       82       i6        8        0
C. AIIL MILEAGE (thousand km/yea.)
gs. care      12
all other      16       0       so0      40       60       0o    100
0. AVERAE UT CONSUWmON (L/100IK)
oas       11      18                20       25                s o0
disml                so       20       16       10      2a        40
alcoho       14       i6                25       80       45       as
E. TOTAL ESIATED ANNJAL C0 lUWTZON (bl I I Ion I tser  p.o., 1M):         89.1
gool Ine      .7      1.4      0.0      0.8      1.0      0.0      0.0    10.0
diell        0.0      0.0      1.6      0.7      2.2      6.6      4.6    14.7
alcoholl/    0.0      1.0      0.0      0.0      1.0     0.2       0.0    14.4
Sourcess moo EOT, TranspoDt Moderno, Dulance Enpor gohco cional 1887.
I/ Including both anhyrIc (in gosohol, 2oX) and hydrous ethanol.
Septembe_r 13



70                      Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPONENT
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1.1 MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
1.       The Ministry of Transport (MT) has a single part time official who
has some responsibility for environmental needs of the Ministry. MT
proposes to strengthen this arrangement by the creation, before December
31, 1990, of a central Environmental Affairs Unit, with the following
principal functions:
a.   Coordination between DNER, railways (REFESA), waterways
(Portobras) etc.
b.   Coordination with CONAHA, IBAMA, CONSEMA, non-governmental
organizations etc.
c.   Monitoring, especially the quality of environmental analyses,
RIMs etc.
d.   Interministerial coordination and dissemination of all
environmental guidelines, regulations and
manuals etc.   Technical advice to ministries involved in
highway decision-making (eg: SEPLAN, etc).
e.   Creation and development of specialized environmental units
in the various organs of MT; their coordination with other
branches of HT.
2.       This unit, at full strength, will have a minimum of 5 high level
professional environmental specialists, together with a unit chief. This
unit will be formed from staff positions at present scattered in GEIPOT and
other agencies, to be united within MT.   MT will prepare a program similar
to that of DNER before the end of 1989, including their railway and
waterway projects.  During negotiations the Government agreed to establish
the unit starting with the appointment of a full-time Environmental Affairs
Coordinator by December 31, 1990 to be supported, as necessary, by the
Environmental specialists from GEIPOT. A part-time coordinator has already
been appointed by MT.
1.2      DNER
3.       DNER's project studies division has, as of March 1989, one (of
seven) of its units responsible for architecture and environment, renamed
from its architecture and landscaping unit (see Attachment 1).    In view
of the importance of environment, this unit will be strengthened before the
end of June 1990. During negotiations, the Government agreed to strengthen
the existing unit to the level of seven full-time, higher-level specialist
environmental professional staff by June 30, 1990.



5
~ 72. -                      Page 2 of 6
4.       This environmental unit will be responsible for all environmental
plavning of projects, environmental management of construction, and
revisions and monitoring of guidelines during operations.   The unit also
will be responsible for the preparation and implementation of the
guidelines, the coordination of all environmental topics within DNER,
together with MT, and with the state-level highway departments (DERs).
The unit will promote training and upgrading of staff in environmental
aspects.
5.       The unit will focus on three fundamental aspects:
1.   Physico-chemicals (hazardous substances,noise,vibrations,
pollution of air and water).
2.   Biologicals (biodiversity, ecosystems,wildlands,habitat).
3.   Social: (involuntary and unplanned settlement,
Amerindians, cultural property,aesthetics)
6.       The unit will promote the study of the possibility of broadening
the area of influence of highways near settlements or obtain legislation
providing for control of land use to prevent disorderly and unsafe
practices adjacent to highway.
2.       SPECIFIC MEASURES
2.1      GUIDELINES
7.       The general specifications for highways, in effect since 1971, are
undergoing modification and will be ready before the end of December 1990.
8.       In addition, as soon as the "Environmental Guidelines" have been
approved (expected before the end of 1989), by DNER's Council, they will be
submitted to CONAMA for approval and adoption by all states.   Before
sending the guidelines to CONAMA, they will be analised and criticized by
IBAMA, before they are disseminated externally.
9.       The need to use DNER's guidelines by all the DERs is emphasized.
This will be promoted by annual meetings of all DERs with DNER, as well as
the training course already proposed by MT.
10.      Most direct impacts are acknowledged and largely addressed
nowadays.   But, as the guidelines emphasize, the main impacts of highways
are the indirect or secondary effects, such as spontaneous settlement,
deforestation, garimpo, abuse of agro- and other chemicals.   Thus, DNER is
paying special attention to the more realistic interpretation of "area of
influence' of a road (now 100 km either side), rather thaa narrow "right-
of-way' concept.   Dissemination of this concept is would be possibly the
most important activity for DNER's environmental unit.
11.      DNER will set up a team to monitor the implementation of these
environmental guidelines by all the DERs, by DNER itself, and by all
construction and consulting firms.   The monitoring group will initially
rely on external support until DNER's own teams can take over full
responsibility for these monitoring functions.



72 -                      Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
12.      As soon as the environmental guidelines are approved by DNER and
by IBAMA, they will be disseminated among MT. DNER, GEIPOT, DERs,
construction and consulting firms and the public (specifically including
NG0s and academia).   The first complete draft will be discussei in a
national seminar on "Highways and the Environment".   In order to
facilitate this process, DNER will widely publish its valuable work of the
same title (1989; 2 vols).
2.2 PORTFOLIO REVIEW
13.      DNER will promote a review of the controversial projects in its
portfolio, by means of a special analysis which will begin in the first
year of effectiveness of the loan, with the objective of learning from
previous lessons, to correct the situation where necessary and to integrate
measures to avoid problems in the future.    This two step portfolio review
will be expedited by means of an 18 month first stage consultancy followed
by a second 12 month consultancy.
14.      In the first step, DNER will environmentally evaluate their
controversial projects, such as BR 174 (Manaus-Marco BV 8)(see annex ***),
and BR 163 (Cuiaba-Santarem), and others which will be selected after
analysing the results of these first two.   At the same stage,  the causes
of migrations will be studied, differentiated between the regions opened up
by the highways constructed in the 1960s and 19709, comparing the roads
mentioned above with BR 319 )Porto Velho-Careiro), and with BR 230
(Itaituba-Humaita) the TransAmazon Highway.
The second stage will focus on the review of those projects-with
environmental problems, although not necessarily controversial, such BR 101
(Rio-Santos), BR282 (Florianopolis-Lajes), the Transpantaneira etc.
3.   TRAINING
15.      Environmental training will be offered at two levels: first, to
raise the awareness of those technicians who do not need specialized
environmental knowledge, and second, for those technicians who need long
and detailed environmental courses.
3.1 ANNUAL SEMINAR
16.      DNER will sponsor and annual seminar for five years at the
national level, of five working day duration, on the general themes of
transports and environment, beginning with the discussion of the
Environmental Guidelines mentioned in paragraph 2.1 (see Attachment 3).
Special themes will be selected for subsequent years, such as hazardous
substances transport, cor:parative impacts of transport mode, impacts of
urban transport etc.
3.2 INTERNAL COURSES
17.      MT/DNER will mount two internal course of two weeks each for their
own technicians.   These course will be administered in the first two years
of the loan.



Annex 5
73                          Page 4 of 6
18.      One of these courses will examine the environmental economics of
transport systems, and environmental cost/benefit analysis to internalize
environmental externalities.   The lecture notes and related materials of
such courses  will be edited and published afterwards by DNER.   One annual
two-day course will be aimed at DNER executives (District Chiefs,Divisional
Advisors etc), and will start in the first year of the loan.    In view of
the fundamental importance of environmental cost/benefit analyses and the
lack of such experience in DNER, Mr. Daly's course to be given in R_o at
the Getulio Vargas Foundation in Fall 1989 should be repeated for DNER's
technical staff.
3.3 EXTERNAL COURSES
19.      An annual three-month course will be offered for five years at an
institution chosen by MTIDNER (eg: Federal Fluminense University, Coppe
(Fundao) Rio).   Financing will be included in the project for full
participation of staff from MT/DNER, Geipot, and consultants, in congresses
and seminars, etc. concerning transport and environment, both in country as
well as abroad.   Construction corporations, contractors, etc. also are
invited to attend.
3.4 ADVANCED TRAINING
3.4.1. SCHOLARSHIPS
20. Scholarships in environmental sciences related to transport (senso
amplo) will be adminisrtered by DNER from the first year of the loan.
Five masters level scholarships of two years duration each will be financed
over the five years of the loan.
3.4.2. ESTAGIOS AND ATUALIZICAO TECNICA
21.      Apprenticeships and study travel will be financed both in Brazil
and outside (eg: US Federal Highway Commission already offers such
training).   DNER will choose the number and type of such activities
following their own criteria.
22.      The acquisition of  books and technical journals on environment
and especially that related to transpGrt also will be financed under the
loan, to enable MT/DNER staff to keep abreast of this topic.
3.5 SPECIFIC TOPICS
23.      In cases where adequate material is not available to offer a
certain needed course, MT/DNER will support the Institute of Highways
research(IPR), together with other spacialized institutions
(eg:CETESB,Fundacao Getulio Vargas) to research the nesessary materialthe
results of which will terminate in a course (eg: internalization of
environmental externalities in cost/benefit analysis).



Annex 5
~ 74 -                  Page 5 of 6
4.   HIGHWAY BR 116
4.1  BACKGROUND
24.       Regis Bittencourt highway (BR 116), specifically the 292 km.
stretch between Sao Paulo and Curitiba is the second most used in Brazil in
terms of tonnage and number of vehicles (36,000 vehicle-equivalents per
day) and the first or second most dangerous (depending whether death,
wounding,accident or damage criteria are used). As a tesult, the upgrading
of this critical stretch appears to be desired by all.
25.      However, some of the alternatives could interfere with the
Atlantic Forest (Serra do Mar) , the most threatened natural national
patrimony in Brazil; only 62 of its original extent still remaining.
Apart from the risk connected with the widening of BR 116, the Mata
Atlantica continues to be threatened by approximately seven other proposed
stretches of roads largely under state auspices, unrelated to DNER and the
loan.   The situation in general has deteriorated to such an extent that
firearms are reported to have been used (the case in Ubatuba), the
suspension of work by order of the state authorities (the Rodovia do Sol
case), legal proceedings (BR 101 in Jureia), popular demonstrations (SP
139), asphalting of the Parati-Cunha stretch within the Serra da Bocaina
National Park authorized by IBAMA, as well as other problems.
4.2 BR 116: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS
4.2.1 SEMASP AND BR 116
26.      In view of the controversies, the environmental assessment (EA) of
the widening or upgrading of this road will be one of the most important
and sensitive.   The Environmental Secretariat of Sao Paulo (SEMASP), in
their 29 July 1989 meeting with DNER, DERSA, World Bank, and the
consultants of DNER (ETECE), emphasized the great value of the remnants of
the Mata Atlantica (MA) and warned that any unavoidable need for any
disturbance to the Mata Atlantica must be unequivocally proven by the
environmental assessment well in advance.   This is to include both direct
as well as indirect (secondary) impacts.
27.      SEMASP further emphasized that all alternatives (sensu lato) need
to be analysed, includir.g rail and the non-duplication of BR 116 (base
case), and all submitted to a rigorous environmental cost-benefit analysis.
The case needs to be proven why any further perturbation to the Mata
Atlantica is unavoidable.   Apart from this, the EA should ind,cate
specific measures to minimize any risks to the Mata Atlantica, (eg:
alternatives which minimize disturbance to the MA), mitigatory measures
(eg: blocking of access along all relevant stretches), and compensation for
whatever damage is accepted by SEMASP as being unavoidable (eg:
strengthening and /or expansion of conservation units).   The major
advantages of participation of environmental NGOs specialized in MA in the
EA also was emphasized by SEMASP (e.g.: "SOS Mata Atlantica", "Oikos". and
"Apedema").   Any influence whatsoever on Amerindians, Caicaras, etc.
should be scrupulously clarified.



_75 _Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
4.2.2  THE WORLD BANK AND BR 116
28.      The appraisal mission concluded that the EA of BR 116 upgrading,
now in a preliminary version, should be accelerated and finished by the end
of August 1989, with the exception of the critical Lot 2 stretch.   The
mission agreed with the preliminary analyses that, with the exception of
Lot 2, the impacts appeared to be mitigable.
29.      In the case of Lot 2, the situation appeared to be more
precarious. The mission deemed important that the EA of Lot 2 be more
detailed and planned with more precision, separately from the EA of the
other lots, and to be completed by the end of 1989. This is likely to need
eight or so specialists of different types. DNER will prepare terms of
reference for the EA of Lot 2 as an annex to the EA of the other lots,
expected within six weeks.   The terms of reference or the EA of Lot 2 will
be based on the advice of SEMhASP as noted in paragraph 4.2.1 above.
especially the rigorous environmental cost/benefit of all alternatives.



-76-
Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS REHABILITATION AND HANAGEMENT PROJECT
Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector in Brazil
A. Highways
1.         The First Highway Prolect (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million, October
1968) was instrumental in setting the framework for Bank involvement in the
Brazilian transport sector. Together with this loan, the Bank reached
agreement with the Government on a Plan of Action which included, among other
things, the reorganization of DNER, the revision of road-user charges, the
reduction of railway deficits and the improvement of port administration.
The project included detailed engineering, construction, paving, and
supervision of seven road sections totaling 429 km in four states; the
project was successtully completed in September 1972, about a year later than
expected. The delay was mainly due to design changes and problems with
earthworks. Despite cost overruns in some sections, total project costs were
lower than anticipated. The audit revstimated rates of return for the roads
were, except for one road, equal to or higher than the appraisal estimates;
they ranged from 14 to 40S (PPA Report No. 1026 dated February 12, 1976).
2.         The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR, US$100 million, Hay 1970)
included construction and paving of 2,136 km of roads, detailed engineering
of 2,369 km, and feasibility studies of 3,256 km. The project provided
technical assistance to strengthen the planning and supervisory capabilities
of DNER. Problems were encountered during construction, and delays occurred.
As a result, the project was not completed until August 1976, two years
behind schedule. Final cost was about 62 above appraisal estimates. The
audit rate of return for the project was higher than the appraisal estimate
(36 as against 27Z), mainly because of much higher-that-anticipated traffic
growth. This was the first major road project carried out entirely by
Brazilian firms under strict specifications and quality controls agreed with
the Bank.- The experiences gained by the Brazilian construction industry and
DNER during the execution of the project were considerable, as demonstrated
by the performance of follow up projects (PPA Report No. 644, dated June 21,
1977, based on the PCR dated October 27, 1976).
3.         Feasibility and engineering studies included under the Second
Highway Project formed the basis for the Third and Fourth Highway Proiects
(Loan 813-BR, US$89 million, April 1972, and Loan 854-BR, US$51 million,
August 1972). They included construction of 1,849 km, paving of 681 km of
roads, and related supervision. Civil works in both projects faced the same
problems encountered during the Second Highway Project. Completion of both
projects, initially scheduled for 1976, was at the.end of 1977.
Underestimation of physical quantities and acceleration of inflation in 1973
and 1974 caused substantial cost overruns. Reestimated rates of return,
however, were considerably above appraisal estimates: 452 and 29X against
251 and 162 respectively (PCR dated May 30, 1978, PPAR No. 2571 of June 8,
1979). The PPAR noted that inadequate detailed engineering for these two
projects contributed to substantial quantlty and cost increases. It also
pointed out deficiencies in traffic forecasting.



Annex 6
- 77                          Page 2 of 6
4.         The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1057-BR, US$110 million, January
1975) set the basis for Bank involvement in road maintenance, rehabilitation
and strengthening. The project included (a) construction and upgrading of
612 km of federal highways: (b) highway maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in the States of Hinas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and technical
assistance to DNER to improve maintenance planning; (c) Phase I of a Weighing
Station Program; (d) detailed engineering for road construction, upgrading
and rehabilitation; and (e) feasibility studies for three new highways
totaling about 900 km.
5.         The project achieved its original objective in upgrading, and
increasing the capacity of, congested road links included in the project,
although these works were completed with about three years' delay, largely
because of the poor performance of the contractors and major design changes
on two of the roads because of geological problems. Also, the final cost of
civil works exceeded appraisal estimates substantially. The technical
assistance, which helped to improve maintenance planning and management, made
a useful contribution, although it achieved less than expecte,1, ?artly
because the systems developed by consultants were regarded sw too complicated
and did not take into account the local conditions and the level of
development. Largely as a result of inadequate project preparation, the
weigh bridge program was delayed substantially and only partially completed.
Because of substantial change in the design concept, t}.e program exceeded the
anticipated cost significantly. The implementation of the program was
continued under the Sixth highway Project. The PCR was issued on May 8,
1985.
6.         The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR, US$114 million, August
1978) provided continuity to the Bank's involvement in rehabilitation and
maintenance. The project included (a) rehabilitation of about 2,300 km of
paved federal highways and the execution of the detailed engineering for
about another 3,000 km of rehabilitation works; (b) a highway maintenance and
rehabilitation program in the State of Parana; (c) Phase II of the Weighing
Stations Program; and (d) consulting services to the Road Research Institute
(IPR) to carry out research into pavement overlay design and to GEIPOT to
complete research studies necessary to improve the Highway Design and
Maintenance Model.
7.         Project implementation was delayed from the start, and DER-SP's
highway rehabilitation program was suspended for almost a year because of
lack of counterpart funding. The reactivated program als3 progressed slowly
because of the erratic availability of funds. The progress of the Parana
highway rehabilitation program was also affected by low level funding, but
both programs started to accelerate after mid-1983, with the backing of the
Bank's Special Action Program, and were completed in the second half of 1985.
The weigh bridge program continued to have difficulties and delays under this
project, and even a reduced target of 73 weigh bridge stations remained
incomplete under the project. The still remaining 12 stations are being
constructed with the Government's own resources. Although DNER's pavement
research program suffered delays, it was completed satisfactorily in late
1984, and a new standard for pavement overlay design has been introduced for
federal highways. The strengthening of DER-Parana maintenance operations was
completed successfully. The project as a whole was completed at the end of
1985.



Annex 6
-78-                        Page 3 of 6
8.         The Northwest Region Development Program, Highway Project (Loan
2062-BR, US$240 million, November 1981) consists of (a) the construction of
the Campinas-Ariquemes section (about 1,084 km) of the Northwest Highway,
364-BR: (b) a program for strengthening Rondonia State Highway Department
(DER-RO), including construction of district buildings, acquisition of
equipment and technical assistance; and (c) two feeder road programs with
BNDES in the States of Rondonia and Mato Groso, which include construction
and improvement of about 1,000 km of roads.
9.         The construction of the Northwest Highway, after initial delays
due to inadequate funding, started to accelerate in the second half of 1983
under the Bank's Special Action Program and was completed in late 1984, about
a year ahead of appraisal schedule. The program for strengthening the State
Highway Department of Rondonia has progressed slowly. Consultants assisting
the program were mobilized with two years' delay, and there were
interruptions to the program in early 1985 3n connection with the overall
review of various aspects of the Northwest Region Development Program. It
appears that an extension of the loan closing date of December 31, 1986 would
be required to accomplish the original objectives for the institutional
development of Rondonia's Road Department. This aspect is under review. The
feeder road component of the project has been completed. In mid-1985, the
Bank agreed to use about US$60 million of loan savings for an emergency flood
rehabilitation program in six Northeastern states.
10.        The Federal Highways Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR, US$210 million,
June 1984) providcs assistance in the implementation of a series of programs
included in DNER's 1984-1987 Investment Plan.  *The components of the Plan
supported by the project are: (a) highway rehabilitation program for the
federal highway network; (b) road safety program covering improvement of high
accident locati-   pavement marking, highway safety campaign and purchase of
equipment for hL   j police; (c) training program for DNER and state highway
maintenance personnel; and (d) technical assistance for a pavement management
system, an equipment management system, and highway research studies.
11.        The project made slow progress during the first year.  However,
with increased budget allocations from mid-1985 onward, implementation has
accelerated, particularly the highway rehabilitation component, and presently
about 982 of the loan has been committed by contracts already awarded. The
highway safety and training programs are still behind schedule, but DNER is
making efforts to accelerate the implementation of these components as well.
The loan closing date has been extended for six months to December 31, 1989.
12.        The Sao Paulo State Highways Management Project (Loan 2830-BR,
US$174 million, December 1987) provides for (i) civil works for the
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of state highways and associated
consultants services for engineering design and consultant supervision, (ii)
equipment rehabilitation; (iii) a training program; and (iv) technical
assistance for studies related to state transport policy, planning and
operations and highways management. After a slow start in project
implementation, good progress has been achieved on the project's
rehabilitation component and, more recently the engagement of technical
assistance for introducing highway management system and to train staff.
Loan commitments are quite satisfactory at about 402 and expected to
accelerate soon.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
79 _
B. Feeder Roads Projects
13.        The Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR, US$55
million, March 1976) represented an innovative approach to the problem of
channeling Bank support toward the improvement of secondary and access roads,
which, in Brazil, is the responsibility of the states and the municipalities.
The project was conceived as a line of credit extended to Brazil's National
Economic Development Bank, BNDES, to finance roughly 502 of the subloans
extended by BNDES to DERs or to municipal consortia to carry out secondary
and feeder road programs in support of agricultural production. The
subprojects are prepared and evaluated in accordance with agreed and well
publicized criteria embodied in a manual.
14.        The project was slow in starting because beneficiaries took more
time than anticipated to familiarize themselves with the procedures and to
establish their working relationships with BNDES. The loan has been fully
committed, financing 18 subprojects in 12 states comprising 5,400 km of roads
and 110 separate bridges. However, implementation has been followed by
financial problems. Because the purchasing power of the ORTN (the monetary
unit in which subloans are made) has decreased and because of cost overruns,
the subborrowers have seen their share of the cost increase by 40X to 60? and
have not been able to keep up the pace of execution of their subprojects.
BNDES prepared, in May 1981. a reformulation of the subprojects under the
First and Second Feeder Roads Projects: (a) to reduce the scope of individual
subprojects, in line with the capacity of the subborrowers, so that all
subprojects could be completed by June 1984 for the First Loan and by the end
of 1985 for the Second; and (b) to provide additional financing for 13 of the
ongoing 16 subprojects in order to restore the participation of BNDES/IBRD to
its initial level. Supplementary subloans for subprojects under the First
Loan are being financed under the Second Feeder road Project. The project
was completed with three and a half years delay in mid-1984. The PCR was
issued on June 14, 1985.
15.        The Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, US$110 million,
June 1979) was intended to provide continuity to the program assisted by the
First Project. The 19 subprojects in*13 states make up a total of about
4,900 km of roads and 370 bridges. Lack of counterpart funds slowed down
implementation in 1982 and 1983. The Bank's Special Action Program helped to
accelerate the implementation. All but two ongoing subprojects were
completed by the end of 1986, only slightly behind appraisal schedule.
16.        The Third Feeder Roads Proiect (Loan 2224-Bg, US$154 million) was
approved by the Board in December 1982, and the loan was declared effective
in June 1983. The project is supporting the continuation of the National
Feeder Roads Program, administered by BNDES, as well as significant policy
development and institution-building efforts for BNDES. The project consists
of provision of subloans for the construction, improvement or rehabilitation
of a total of approximately 8,000 km of roads for a total cost of about
US$450 million over the period 1983-mid 1989, including technical assistance
for advisory services and training of staff to improve the maintenance
capability of subborrowers. Major implementation problems were the limit on
the State agencies' borrowing capacity and their defaults on obligations to
the Federal Treasury, shortages of counterpart funds, and some weaknesses in
the management of the Program by BNDES. The project completed on December
31, 1989.



Annex 6
80      Page 5 of 6
C. Railways
17.        The First Railway Project (Loan 786-BR, US$46.0 million, 1971) was
to finance the railway portion of the HER (Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas)
iron ore project (partly financed by Loan 787-BR) to carry 10-12 million tons
of iron ore annually from the Aguas Claras mine to the Sepetiba ocean port
terminal. Although traffic started as planned in July 1973, it was hindered
by operational problems, such as derailments on the Central Line, whose
rehabilitation (financed by RFFSA) took longer than expected. Also, delays
were encountered in the bridge strengthening program and in completing new
workshops. The traffic situation improved in 1974, reaching the forecast
level by the end of the year. The project was also to assist the railway in
promoting more profit-oriented activities and to stimulate better management.
However, the project did not address the instJtutional issues of RFFSA, and,
in the end, the Bank's dialogue with the Govemi:ment on this subject had to
take place largely outside the loan's context. The project was completed in
December 1977, about three years behind schedule (PPAR No. 4258 dated
December 30, 1982).
18.        The Second Railway Project (Loan 1074-BR, US$175.0 million,
January 1975) financed the first two years of RFFSA's 1975-1979 investment
plan and, in addition, included a program of technical assistance. The main
objectives were to enable RFFSA to meet future demands, particularly in
transporting iron or e and steel products in the Central, and agricultural
products in the Scuthern, regions. Assistance was also provided for the
rehabilitation and modernization of the suburban passenger services in Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Peulo. In addition to track rehabilitation, the project
included purchase of signaling and telecommunications equipment and rolling
stock for the suburban services in Rio and Sao Paulo, as well as workshop
equipment. The project was completed in December 1981, about two-and-a-half
years behind schedule. In retrospect, it appears that the project, which
included a large number of individual projects for a total estimated cost of
about US$3-2 billion, was too large for the railway to implement, and the
time schedule was clearly too optimistic. Many components had to be
reformulated and/or postponed. For institutional development, the measures
and actions which were essentially internal to RFFSA were successful.
Regarding broader questions of policies and relationships with the Federal
Government, the difficulties involved were underestimated, and the appraisal
objectives were mostl.y not achieved (PCR. issued on June 22, 1983; draft PPAR
dated March 11, 1986).
19.        The Third Railway Project (Loan 1171-BR, US$75.0 million, October
1975) financed the first two years of FEPASA's 1975-1970 investment plan.
The objectives of the loan were to: (a) rehabilitate and, as necessary,
expand the system; (b) improve the operational and financial performance of
FEPASA; (c) improve suburban passenger services in the Sao Paulo area; and
(di strengthen urban transport coordination in the Sao Paulo area.  During
implementation. it soon became evident that the program was too large for
FEPASA, which, in any case, lacked the necessary funds. In mid-1977, the
Bank and FEPASA agreed to redefine the project. However, the redefinition
was complicated by the fact that the loan funds were thinly spread over a
large number of items for which the bidding process was already advanced;
redefinition was completed only in early 1980. The implementation of the
redefined project progressed satisfactor,ily until its completion in October
i (PCR issued on June 29, 1984). .



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
20.        The Federal Railway-Export Corridor Project  (Loan 2563-BR,
US$200.0 million, signed July 1985) includes a policy and institutional
development action plan for the rationalization of the railway's operations
and network including of public service obligations, tariff restructuring and
better cost-control, and for more effective operational and maintenance
management; and an investment component for the rehabilitation and
improvement of railway and intermodal facilities in the Goias-Minas Gerais
and the Parana export corridors. Progress hae been made in separating the
socially-oriented operation of the suburban cormuter rail systems into a
separate company (CBTU), in reducing unremunerative inter-city passenger
services and, to a lesser extent, in rationalizing freight services, as well
as in designing and starting up the implementation of improved cost-
accounting, operations control and maintenance management systems; but
tariffs, which have remained centrally-controlled, have not been sufficiently
or timely increase, which, together with the inadequate maintenance of the
motive power, has resulted in the railway's financial performance being
below the agreed targets. The investment component has been substantially
behind schedule as a result of procurement difficulties and insufficient
counterpart funding.
21.        The FEPASA Railway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2857-BR, US$100.0
million, signed July 1987) also includes a policy and institutional
development action plan for the rationalization of the railway's operations
including of public service obligations, tariff restructuring and better
cost-control, and for more effective operations, maintenance and personnel
management; and an investment component for the rehabilitation and
improvement of railway and intermodal facilities in the main corridors
leading to Sao Paulo and to the port of Santos. Progress has been made
particularly in streamlining the railway's organization and in track and
intermodal terminal investments.  Most of the action programs are still in
their early steps to produce any substantial results as yet.
22.        Other Railway Projects or Components.  The Bank has also made a
loan (Loan 1839-BR, 1980, US$159 million) to support the Second Urban
Transport--Porto Alegre--Project, which includes the construction of a
metropolitan rail mass transit system, and it is participating in the
financing of the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan No. 2196-BR, 1982, US$304.5
million), which included the construction of an 890-km railroad in Northern
Brazil for the purpose of exporting iron ore.
D. Ports
23.        For the port subsector, the Bank has made two loans to PORTOBRAS
(Loan 756-BR, 1971, US$45 million and Loan 2941-BR, 1988, US$20 million,
1988. The first loan assisted the Santos Port Authority in constructing a
container terminal and some 53 km of railroad and in providing consultant
services for engineering and management studies. In addition, the loan
provided for consulting services for improvement of the National Department
of Ports and Waterways (DNPVN)a and for an overall Port Study. After
substantial delays in implementation, involving changes in project scope and
large cost overruns, the project was completed and the loan closed officially
in 1980. The second loan, a technicai assistance loan, supports
institutional and operational programs to (i) strengthen port management,
(ii) improve the efficiency of port operations, (iii) improve commercial
performance of individual port companies, (iv) facilitate intermodal
transport processes; and (v) reduce the ports dependency of Governments
subsidies. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
September 1989



- 82 -
guex
Page 1 of 7
Sl  lvIuai of       n  ad betl , the Olviso d Tlb mto   * Orciev  (U ), a sMt of the
Sod    uwd,  Ititute,   titalto do lsqIUS b6'ala  (Ml),    t  bepatmto  Wai l do
bhta        #A Ideu (U), the atiad b m, is   d   withU traiig M                      hi0ay elimnees
ua  taici,a   ad thoIU of th  State Uhvny 1g9udl, (D0).
So ftios d t   M  VA te NO voUd be s"id ad stmh   o  aa to betta ure a       and
witaltUd MU. (Am    ). to the  _a           , a saw o eriticaly lota  traing objetv
t be Mt.  Ni*  the otom  of the sty to dein  the lo-ten goaul, m,   am polcy of
MM'S t        a      efforts the MC@B  popoa for fuding uder the Prposed so agu                  anm
.i ltatlo  Prot Is cotaned in thir rot titld  WMOUU                    O -  MM  I, P aU Dt
!IIAIW    or lao  Sector I Proect ?rAsi  Prom.
te pojeot wod  laclGe three ajor tnin*g elu1s:
(a). fececal am   aamet o oe ad senia  for D   a  Da   pronnel ad othe  (this is
dismed below);  (b.) Outof-cotry tning ad toecical vtist by electe -     pronAl. Une
th  ogoing ferl l y Sctor Ptojet, It      bee difficlat to amg  fr outf-ooatry trael
du to fdal qoveat mtrctiotl. Une the p s  project, th  q                    rm it  Wag  nt wlad be
Out  tht the oeas pra  detailed by Io vil nt be restricted.  for a start, a part f
rojeat VII, the Cief of the Do ad thre  other  y tcal stff ould be st to a  itable
cmty ovan for a broad epo               to training ad resea    pobiltes an the traiing  taitals
avaiale that miqht be mM   nl meting the imdlate taing neb that are diwsd below. Ou  of
t hfll dults of tis trip v1 be a work plan fr oth *smlar travel osde o Itall. Itis
stmd  that about $300,000 can be   d to tina    out 50 trips am  tho mnt 4 yeas. T    is
s      dorOP C       Ielow. (c). CostrUc    of physical  provo ts, I.e. cluaom, lbontories,
dutorles an the prcas d asciatd  qup t.  i lit of tbW    sanizatos am the additionl
Ma   for training, the Em   Mt 91" ugt attention to this its. ae   ar prsny thre
clesoroom availble in the I  that can be   d for trni   ad thbt ae a*utely quipped.
bvr,  th Bojet woud  superios over 130 clasaro1 _oe    oa top of other pland so  for thes
clmom  ad tbes my theore have to oe epadd Is  u . Ixact claroom  and labotory  ed
nt be clarly idtified n part    the comprehensive stuy Ad staigteng di           ed in (Amu.
It au be  esUd  that the ost for pbysical          4u         villl be  t  $700,000.
nIAN VDC m  of MU
Sf  NO VIl cA     omesul a ina  In   Abect sette  a                   vit clOsultatUs' uastan  for
st4mb ha   r, the M's ad othe. htha tha  bUi  10 coultua   to idevop and  llent
the ome, th    ur   would be qwped by  bject atte. Bed an M's  teetative schedule for
_m   of stents am tims for presetn   each of te m . the a               ltat Wud pos ao
poi  cl    sie,  d pee  nt ti  sd . Algo the  dc moipmm dwme  hm  Wud ned
n adtim to the cs  fa pr ing ad prenti  th  10 cms, a mutut intat to
mihite tb dnloput a  dlivy of all of the cs   ai to coato  eet, eator, and
valte th   fts by th    nultat for the 10 ome  vrlso de  deveod. M   a ca tra
m   nrei  th  flU ti  v0k of a te   lder,  traiin  spcialist, an a s tay. it  old
ao  epir a              uhm th per yea of a s al onutante  cts ae mIud beluo.



-83-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 7
1 swial (1U          1 mtb                 $10,000
2 haD  M.&           pe yar                M6,CON
3 faidq        gldd  pa you                30,0000:
4 bsomal             wy YO                    ,"o
Old o 2, 3, 4 * 2.2                        In,g=
fbtl Rg0 8Qmkoy c@ultait pat yei         *35,100
fataa upwiem   a          ta tfa 4 yu  O1W,AN
GM A
IW   M    az    d  orns  dalig pri l vith pgonmta.
SU Wo  w           have tre kba sic .1mb, Pvmfhti lp, ?avat Cmtuaoot, ai Sevim ot
Pavc!        e. w esultat voilE dtenl  If ti   aterial sbuld be patU   as m, tvo,
a tb=  ot6e1   a       e s. Ica od tha thU      d      lt ? web dwtl. l      bm, Stl  total
@0- vld ba g     he to 6 web, with 4 webtmet prbbly a rese l etima  of t1  toal
t1  9          XGt huu  atlaI.   h eproqrON  VOUld iWclu kLis s  l   wu11S, aPmqItO, Pvinq
mtcgias liEC iaIJ   tasting ad mntzpreatiom  f teat relts, pving e   mt Inldig Its on,
cuo, a&d Wlp1catico, oqalsatia an cotol of vork sites, rigid ad flesible pavust Owip, ad
O-a= golat  citoial. Tis pru vl incue at lst  2 ILdy vists to Oplg pjects Ed a 1-
dziy violt to a mtxidls  oabratory that is evaluating prst mterias.
0ms 1  PAVl   E  BmIel cat.
4 Xk3        6         ion   e plne at w,00 $O240,000
OMEN atriaJ                          10,00
vcnmnt DosIg                         2 web
avQmt CoustrUm                       1 web
aS "vwiox of tnt wf'tlon I ve
co$alt&t 1@          to duip com
1 W- del Ofu1tnt' 4 web                 $10800
2 2e                 4 ve3e
3  Wai3l  Spcilt 2  ebs                   1,250
,0 L-awiai           4v *   w,00 O                Uvabd o 2, 3, H r 2.2  $11,550
8eg 85                              $26,tUD
Cou2  MVE     RWUIIthIOI                    @ipA
l  46    a) @ tRis We trainig uiI vldbeto  t  allu pects of eM iot. , ubabluitlot,
ad atol  o rig  and flabe paUhts", nludin   clig v P                      atils, ovlays,
Mao   EA ag  ebllitato  ad apvum li we enlin  te                s           ms wi   i  dIbcl
m*w o ZM     lioo, paeht -"U,V stuca  small pvm                         imhz  a th
aftuC3 69 olutiafvas. l b an" on he uusvey  ubt  In 40caum    r    ludn  a
c     gw        P  to dusip a reubtatlos proet.         wint   swab        b b    d nat m
d.
1 a          (3 8       cm  a  plan    t t$0,000a  080rM
~Mu swiab                          I$ so



- 84 -
AnneX 7
Page 3 nf 7
Censultant sevices to design cours
1 Special Cousu1tat   1 week                 $2,500
2 Tea Leader            1 week                  750
3 Training Specialist 1 wek                     625
4 Sertarial             1 week                   250
Overhad on 2, 3, 4  x 2.2                      3,575                                                                     F
Total for design                              $7,700
Core 7  EGIM     ESlIGN AIM IU             US    Go   A
This cowse should be taugvt u  it exists by  onrld O     ersonnl with tchical sppt from Itm.
2 weeks        6 prentions are pland at $20,00 $20,000
cuse ataials                            $ S,OOO
Course 8  PM=t   UGNT SISU                         Grop A
The objective for tbh  training session would be to describe the baic conept  of a Pavent lanaqement
Systes (1MS.  It would include how to define the road network and segmet  of the network, programing
investments tbroughout the bighway network, pavement evaluation, pavement serviceability index, data
bank and DINER Policy and implementation guidelines. 5tLs courem  would be taught in tree modules. An 8
hour nanagenent ssumury taught to upper uanagement, a 32 bour basic course on how to set up a system and
then after 2 months, a 40 bour follo-up workshop would be held to discuss the problems and the
successes acb.eved by the various participants.
2 weeks        6 presentations are planned at S20,000'$120,000
Course u terials                       S 5,000
Consultant services to design course
I Special Consultant   2 weeks                $5,000
2 Teas Leader           2 weeks                1,500
3 Traininq Specialist 2 weeks                  1,250
4 Secretarial           2 eeJks                  SOO
Overhead on 2, 3, 14  x 2.2                    7,150
Total to design course                       $15,400
GM21P A                                    DEO T           Pesent  Materials
Course 1   PAVHUIT DESIGN                   $25,800        240,000    10,000
Couse 2  PA N T UBLITATIOW                    7,700         40,000     5,000
Cours 7  MGIULY DESIB Ull liUh  1109    ho QiMrge          120,000    5,000
Course 8  PAVT MANAGEMENT SYS                15,400        120,000    S,000
SU3OTITL FOR GWOP A                         $48,500        520,000    25,000                                             r
OAL FOR GlOP A                 $593,900
GROUP b
gs group coists of  4 cours delq with bride.
Core 3  N       AY   E   DMISPTIOI                  roup B
Thi CCoU%  would inc  lude nf ation all type  of bridges, tope of lupeetion, amoqo       =a  of bridge,
strwtural failu, strucral fatigue, detwerorati, sco,t Wm*# isk analysis, rotie lecon
andr,outin  Inpetion equipment.   is c            w ould repi  a  iimOf 80 hU  of
Iuction Including two days of field trip  to Ispet preetmind bries am viadift.  IN cls



-85- 
85                          ~~~~Anex   7
Page 4of 7
of Aout 20 studtts vould be broken into two or three group  to perform these inspetions. Each group
acting as a buidg  IUpeciOD teM   ould inpect all types of bride  ad viOucts.  An advaced cos
awold be psentd evq two yea.
2 week        12 pentatIons ae plamed at $20,000' $240,000
omse materials                            10,00
Coamutint mrvice  to design couse
I Speial Coasultant   4 weef                $10 ,o0
2 "a lader             2   1" 1e5s
3 Training Specialist 2 wee                   1,250
4 SoNtarial            4 weeks                1,00
Oerbed on 2, 3, 4 x 2.2                       8,250
Total to design course                      s22000
aRmP                                      DEVWMT   Present  ifterials
Cauzse 3    iGWY MM  ISCION                 $22,000    240,000      10,000
TOTAL PCR GaOP               $272,000
ar C
This group consists of courses dealing *ith environment and Safety.
Course 4   MItVRDM T AND EIGWA                    Group C
There are tbree bsic elements in this item. A course for project level persoel, a course for
enviromental technicians, and a yearly seminar on environmental issues.
(a).  This co=e is to explain the steps thit must be taken at the project level to minisize
enviroonental damge to the area surrounding the project. Therefore, the program statement must include
a statemnet that the course will Include possible elements of mitigation and/or control. This course
will require a lot of interaction between the course participants. The course vill be designed for a
NiW        of 25 and a  aximm of 35 participats so as to encourage that Interchange of exWience. This
c e mst Include a anmber of practical workshop applications to acquaint the students with the
various  itigation techiques.
1 week        5 presentations are planIed at $10,000u $50,000
Course umterials                         5,000
Consultant services to design course
I SPeCial CQonutlAta    2 VeeOW               $5,000
2 Tatuaer              2  ees                  1,S00
3   ahIin   Specialist 2 vk                    1,250
4 Steretrial           4 week                  1,000
Overud on 2, 3, 4 x 2.2                        8,250
Tot  to deign cose                          S 17,000
(b).   s  oom  would look at the economic aspects of environmental controls and t  b fit/cost
comiderations of itientlin  the   controls.
2 wnk         2 prenttions are plan    at $20.O  $40,000
cm"e uterials                           10,000
Cotultan srIc  to deaig e                       ,
I SpI&meial   nsultant   2 weeks              $5,000



-86 -Anue
Page 5 of I
2 Ute    n            2  dB,0
3 taIing Spucliaa  2 wek                     1,250
4 Scrtaril            4  dg1,
ovUb.a  F,o3, a4   2.2             *,250
otal to dsign tm               1      7       ,
oMa4 1UW1I0M U11! coat.
(C). ins ml.tul  wih ti        bNVlreta  UAadn Out, th acmitatid vo               rdlhne, ad
oWt a yealy sem , am veek long, as oulz W   laim. Au  wald be itimnal saiar witb
paltcIp tlo   fro   allelmes  of bmllia. Sciety ammed with nwk4imAta  lames  a  mriam  of
peRqms pnsAd wui he pria   te no semi va It 100                   iti lonuiu  .
1               ga         au       at   01 o0  $13A3
SWM0 Utall""                       loWD
CO tant sevie to dsign umoluazs
I  1ial conultat  4 wek                      $10,000
2  ea lader            4 we                    3,000
3  taInin  SpeCiallst  4 veel                  2,500
4 SeqrtaI              4 veek                  1,000
0erhbead on 2, 3, 14 x 2.2                    14,300
Tota to design sma                          $30,600
COe 10 TRIC AD lICOY SRY                        a"oup C
ThMs GWC* vwd oaer the functlonal requiuats ot   ny saty feats. It would Iclub
elmas of the sAp   eovery sone; the costruoto   And ultenuc   of    vAy barier sYst
Ilin  stee bem, conree  safety dsap, ad otbzv  driver expectancy; lpat attutor
Istallaton and mintea; kid" safety rai; brenvay siP ai  lilot q,Wt sytel; sign
visibility ad rtrofledtivity; pa     friction; pmnt uarinp; tratic  ar                 tcs; a
isting legislation.
1INX          gof t =far plane at S1,0oA0
Conltat svic to dsign coase
1 Special Coultant  2 weed                  $,000
2 Teas Lader           I week                 750
3  Mining Scalist I wek                        625
4 Sertaial             2 weY                   50
hvead o  2, 3, 4  x 2.2                      4,015
Total to deion cae                          10,890
am  C                                    5U0U           Preut    latelals
Coarse a   5lCU        1  316(11           $17,000       50,000      5,000
Comm  4b   If I                            $17,000       40,000     10,000
C=e 40  SNI          L  Sem530,#0                       10U0,000    N,O00
Cme0 tWIo       C m    I       AWay        $t10,m90      90,000      5,000
5W la am          c                        "75,6ge 2m0,0            40,00n
WOm    6    C                  S395,690
- P
ibis  gn  uuists o cae   din  pimaily with U,tem.



-87 -M
Page  of 7
uu  5        3& CI D131W                       e 
NbIs mme vwd lIda*lammtds o c alnsa, bidi                            "Way,  ys,
au"", mtoau  an  ealtla im ts,                 luas d _w       t u, timpcion,
pyast Mfl. me            t     t oe m   e. lbe pa ipat wil Jon kw to impact, pay
far, metro aid ebiistr   anoeuu  gost,ac swmea.
I alk -        o    tti     mpM  at $10.00.. -a
ailtut endow to dwgu  me
I Spcil  asltat  2 vb                    $5,000
2 Thmw               lI"                   750
3 f?id , NW-'t I ii                        65
4 Surtutill          2 Vs"                 so
o0uh ed  2, 3, G 4 :2.2                    4,015
T"   to "IgoIp  a  e                   $ 10,13
.m.6 11MPa AUImIuWP SMn    a" D
fth Objative far this WUani  sudsi on wld be to duarib  the bas Ic Fmlit ofI himat Impeet
SI. (M).  bs own wIod reflect a           t syt that hve hw        4m1_td by M. it v*gd
ldwe 1., tos  etin the read ntw   aid snus of the eWo*, dwalqlp  and I   am
pdorum  StM"dards   c      dpmto Meotals, ad iNa   neds, UiL  d pofi to, cr  day
cards Vorlk ay/wor vi reputs, ad oUt  aluat  d of  M. ThIs .          wid be taw   In Wee
1le.  An  ho uw a_eut rawy tau    to qu  uh put, a 32 hura ba                   on how to set
up a syste  aid thn dafr two with, a 40 ha follawvo whihp weld be bild to dl,.. tha
prole  ad the sueess alovd by t  vuali  pwatpas. I m aut with eprioe  teah*
dh a ca o would e e1 d. Ts  ea   be tWt i 40 hl. fo1Law  comes soud be
too~t sam  two Yars.
Cas 6  IamWK    ISUIW 5                   coat
1   Vol                             12   pstaU          ae pas  nl  at  .u100         s120,000
emu    utaras                          S,000
Cmutat soriam  to Guip caule
I swial caett  4 web                    MAW
2 ?M lade            4 wnb                3,0400
3  ailun Sealist 2  eb                    l,250
4 Sntdaria           4 web                1,00
OV41 b as 2, 3, U4     .2                11,550
eal to dio..n                           $21 a0
Cue    DIIV  O ISIUS OF OOf                    aq D
To came wmGaM t basic ope atin o   AMts, WoU.  eapt, data poc_s*,
de ti  lufo     GlauulnUtc, ad sstem  tiiuast   ad oths.   SU c            t mu Go   cmard   I
40 ko,.L
1vii S                     m plnd at P0,0 "an
I SpEcial 3alu   2mb$,000
3 RanIg  pelIst 1 iii                      42
*Sacotalu            lni                   2J0



- 88                                         Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
overhead on 3, 84 x 2.2                      2,145
Total to de9.n mms                          $8,020
GRWP D                                               IM      Present    VAtUilS
Couwe  5  O CT Re        DIIAII                 $10,890       80,000       5,06X
CUe   6  NUIFINE ADhI             NII SYSTE      26,800      120,000       S,00(
owne 9  IU IVE  TIIWI1O  OF OUGY                $ 8,020       90,000        1,000
SlWOTAL m  GM  0                                $40,710      290,000      11,000
TOTAL M  CIWP D                   $346,710
GROUP I            ERUOR TUMG  TUAVIS cOSm
50 trips at $6,000. $300,000
MOTAL O GIOUP &                         593,900
TOAL lot GRU                            272,000
TOTAL FOR GmOP C                        395,690
TOTAL FOR GROIP D                       346,710
TOAL FOR GROMP E                        300,000
Total for spervisory consultant       1,038,400
GMD TOmAL F  ALL GRmPS              $ 2,946,700



-89-
Annex R
Page 1 of 2
-.              ~PIOGRA  AD  TO IUPEEN  A TRAiNIN  OT
Fs~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
ala1
_Tho~ectf~   thi t*cal assis TO                                                                 1icy
a                                                        i  aI 
MM of Serii                                                  1~            I
1.       eaer~sul r dtgn    n  hn~alaetecretadftr
1vpeoZs l lV e naend"DdEa0l o a  proe a trainig policy ror &&lOU  nd technoloy
2.                   s    e                    l urtureo       *Oj1jgqi! satiS ying the above needs
3.     3,consultant will propose a Long-Term Training Progu  (for the next years) for the DE  and the
ngporl,i                      p   aon               Iha thep lEaNd elsewhere to carr  on
e.  $   &unna pogra, mSu9sn  g   ype an                   h  unit, etc.ryo
tiled wcintion Of Services
1.       weiCqDlU    will conduct and docs ent interviews with the following to asSeSs D-   and DER
(a). Each DMER Department Director (Existing Structure)
(b).  Ten of the statD  a j  (Of these,four should be from those with previous training
(c). Iajor Nal inities. Botb Engineering and technical institutions and also educational
(d).  n1dia gr e  rorult&ti \  sould   Dlle&vriltdab    g a   mmI in the IPR and with
('I. Other technology transfer and training unit directors in Brazil.
2.                  the t     lnteziew   thesa te                                  io s       ,   tbevonUt
3.      The onitat vil develop saft1  rioflcy bid
mutw 6 fiv"ypXly et  unto                                       a                     no
(b). Iudependat budget
(C). AcOuaility
(e). Loc-ation of the Unit  I.e., vithin RED
If). STh unit should have offices In mAny states.
(9). S2en should be a contact for the UNIT in every sta.
(h). Sb' ft&  stffla9a        arairontd taelllty  eoqdmir ts, and equiut  eeded to get



- 90 -
Annex 6
Pa   of 2-
jjoZul~! rothe  5i  .Th TM ofis ?5t
Te contr ct dsould e ompleted witWin 12  oat  and would follow the following waTk flow csht:
313               ~~~~~0
MINIm
~~~~9                         U       t                                         I *
NOGlISECS             2 each f     o
DXnXSoI  I4 o
TR01    N SP1LM5S      12 toth 1  $900  10800
SE59R                  12 Oah   "200  24!0
33!!VTOTAG   L                                                           *43200
=D0pw    ~I                                                     I*n 
2.     f                   &       t - p          3     k     dvOf the Otftft
1.    & ooaWln              m       ioen suld be hind. h 14d kv oit    in a broad a
&pX lb          t   pEJt14"
3.  s  ooultZ  1ld   4m iqsU rtDaid"t techology  utt,   9 ,p"     mting, oport
I erv    M Ir MI a a
- - ~   MIAI SPECIA C ISIITS2ecfo 12     month e s,o  000
miuic  SPECALIS   12 months e   $9,000- 108,000
mvgL COSSS                                50,000
PRINTIlG AN IIISCELLNS                   10,000
m~h                                     432,000
Note: Costs for ?rai,ninq Spe?:alist and Secretary include overhead and taxes.
Set &U ndFclite to hiAlO inoidd



-91-
Anex 9
-a---- 
Page 1 of 2
-.                     DaZL
i      __________
The Division of Resewrch of the Boad lesrch Institu*e, Inatituto do
Pesquins lodovieries (IPR), of the De.rt_amto Nacional do EKtrudes de
Rodan (DNt), the Ntional Road Agency,  is chagd with performing
technical research in reopoonse to tw needs ofDN. The IPl bhe
identified a aiuabr of critically important resewsh projcts that should
be addressei.  IPR's total pool for reorch under the Poo     Rloud
Nanagomont. and Rehabilitation Project i contained in their report titled
"PROPOSTAa DE PROJETOS DE PESQUISAS A SlV  INCLUIAS NO DIED - VIII" or
Proposed resorch projects to be included in World Dank Loan - VIII.
IPr's 1990-1994 resoarch progr. includes 30 resarch projecte of vhich ten
will be carried out by IPE's rosearch teand the rest by consultants and
external intaitutions such as univorsities undor the supervision of IPE.
Nine research projects , mainly related to the dovelopmnt of isproved
technical standards and managoent systose, have bsnn solected for Dunk
financing under the proposed project. Their current status is outlined
below:
1. Pavement performance (SOMP). Est. cost 62,480,000. This project would
lost feAur years and IPI vould provide continuous docvsentation (quarterly
pro"..on reports) as to progress to the BDnk. The IPR has had soew
corr pondenc  vith The Strategic Highway lseerch Program staffers and hus
eqreed to provide smeples of specific aspholts, by Crude Sourco, Refinery,
Process, and Grde for further research by SHIP. Over a year ago, SHMM
invited DNER to designate an internationul coordinator and to identify
other areas of interest. IPI is gpporently considering this matter.
Copie. of the corroepondance from SHP ar  attached.
2.  Inadequacies in the Pfvement Do"ign and Construction Process.  Est.
cost $426,000. This projoet would lost one year end IPR would provide a
final report to the Dbnk.  The results of this resarch would be usd in
project 3.
3. Development of Now Standards for Pavtont end OvgrleY Dosign. get.
cost 1600,000. This project would lost two years and would be based in
pert on inftraution dvlo.4Wed 'from the nuaber 2 project. The final product
of this ef'trt would be a revisd specification.  The Ml would provide
quarterly prgess            to the Dnk.



-92-
Annex g
Page 2 of 2
.y 6 mm for 6U os.  M. cost 6812,000. This project
would lsit three years, 1/2 yer to deelop the systom mm 2 1/7  ~* to
iplement, w&itor' nd moify the systm.  WI would provide a prores
report ever     onths to th  lWa.
5. Deelopmt of a Hydrological Data ame.  st.. eoat, 0400,000. This
projet would lest two yers an  IPR would provide.  prog   rep   to the
Dank evry six months. The final product.vould be. a w     l for use by
highway   gineers and technicians.
6. Nonitering Slope Stability. Ut. coa  50.000. This poject would
lst four years and IPR would provide continuou  docuentation, every three
months, as to progrs to the Bank. The final product would be a mnual
for use by highway engineers and ewhnicisns.
7. Quality Requirements for Asphalt.    t. Coat S2,000. The pavement
performance project. is a LTPP or Long Tem Pavement Prfoncrma  Project.
The reserch will be conducted on WM5  bet.we  gklins an  Agm Do..
This section of road win selected becuse it wvas progrmed tr
improvements, is reuLtively levl, and has significunt tgent sections
that will be instrumnted.  IPX is reqeting edditional maney for
additial instrumetation and wld transfer money from item 9,
Contingencies for other studies. This projet  ld lost fou years and
IPX would provido continoum  dioeteion, every three onthsor as
needed, to the Bank. Two reports have  b     submitted.
S. Asphalt .ditives. Eat. cost 6800,000. This projoet wmld lost two
years and IPR vould provide  do      r   ontation as to progress to the
Dank. The final product   id b   mnual for use by hishvay  eineers and
technicians.
PM
9. Contingncies for other studies. Ist.. Cost 61,000,000. rN's IPX has
prepared a list of roerch project  en  would like  se of the work of
these projects financed by this remaining 61,000,000. Specific p0iarities
mvild be esebliwshad dyuirinr project implementutyion.  It is tipected
that the focus of this wallocted amount vomld be research into traffic                n
vopertions, managemet , and  afety.
I



-93-                       Ahnnez 10
Page I of 3
BRAZIL
BIGUrAYS WhJAGDMENT AND REUBILITATION PROJECT
The Maintenance of the State Road Networks
A. The Maintenance of the State Reads Networks
1.    The state networks, actually the networks which are under the jurisdic-
tions of the 24 states, two territories and the federal district, total almost
200,000 km in length (i.e. about 132 of Brazil's road network), of which about
75,000 km are paved highways or feede;,roada (i.e. about 57Z of the country's
paved network). Network length has been increasing at a steady rate of 7Z p.a.
over the past 30 years. The density of state roads, however, is still very low
(23 meters per sq.km and 700 inhabitants per km of road, as an average). Five
states (Goias, Minas Gerais, Sao Paulo, Hato Grosso and Bahia) together
account for half of the total length, and four states (Sao Paulo, Parana,
Bahia and Minas Gerais) account for half the length of the paved networks.
Traffic on state networks is estimated at about 50 billion vehicle-km. i.e.
about 25X more than on the federal network, and it is growing much faster (at
about 91 p.a.), which leads to substantial needs for pavement maintenance and
strengthening, as well aS for new paving and capacity expansion programs.
2.    The maintenance condition of the state networks is not siglificantly
better than that of the federal network, despite the fact that they are
generally younger (the weighted average age of the paved networks is about 12
years). A survey of their maintenance condition, carried out in 1986 under
ABDER's coordination, showed that about 452 of the paved highways were in
good, 342 in regular, and 211 In poor condition; and thdt about 752 of those
in good condition were less than five years old and 80X of those in regular
condition were in the five to ten years tranche of age. These results suggest
that after " relatively slow but increasing deterioration process in the first
ten years, paved highways then deteriorate very rapidly, which means, con-
sidering the above-mentioned average age, that the state networks are now
reaching a critical phase of rapid deterioration, and that intensive rehabili-
tation and maintenance efforts e-e needed.
3.    The maintenance programs of the state governments are generally inade-
qt%ate. According to the above-mentioned survey, only about 12,000 km of paved
highways (161 of the network) were maintained in 1982-1986, and a substantial.
portion of that (about 372) only received a slurry seal, a technique which
only reduces the pace of deterioration for two to three years. Actually, the
maintenance effort was by 1986, and it probably still is very concentrated in
a few states, essentially Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Parana and Ceara, which
together accounted for almost 801 of the states' maintenance programs. These
figures indicate that the large majority of the states do very little main-
tenance.
4.    Road rehabilitation and maintenance policies and programs are not
clearly defined at the level of the states, in general. The state governments
will have to undertake or expand programs for the appropriate strengthening of
their highways agencies, in particular for the development and monitoring of



-94 _Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
appropriate rehabilitation and maintenance policies and programs. Considering
the present condition of the networks and the traffic levels, a possible
strategy for many of the states would be tot
(a) strengthen the paved highways and feeder roads which are in regular
condition, through timely periodic overlays in order to avoid them
reaching the poor category and the subsequent need for costly rehabili-
tation (about 40,000 km);
(b) gradually rehabilitate the sections which are in poor condition
(14,000 km), possibly over a ten year period, depending upon actual
budget constraints; an appropriate target for a five-year program would
be to rehabilitate 5,300 km with a combination of high deflection
coefficients and high traffic volumes; and
(c) carry out routine maintenance programs on the entire network, except
for sections which are rehabilitated in that year.
The cost of such rehabi1itation and maintenance programs for the states' paved
networks was estimated, on a very preliminary basis, at about US$2.0 billion
equivalent over 1990-1994.
B. The State Road Maintenance Action-Program
5.    The objectives of the action program would be to:
(a) build-up within DNER a capacity to assist the state governments and
state highways agencies in developing and implementing appropriate road
maintenance policies, strategies and programs, and in strengthening
their pavement and maintenance management systems; and
(b) undertake the dissemination of appropriate strategies to strengthen
the states' maintenance capabilities, and initiate the training of
management and higher-level professional staff in formulating main-
tenance policies and progrmas.
In addStion to helping resolve the problem of the deterioration of the state
networks, the program would be essential to enable most states to effectively
take responsibility for the highways to be transfered under the decentraliza-
tion program. It is expected that the Bank's assistance for the rehabilitation
and maintenance of the state road networks will be expanded through a forth-
coming operation, which is being specifically designed for that purpose. Funds
from this future loan would be on-lent to state governments to help finance
the development and implementation of their maintenance policies and programs
and the strengthening of their pavement and maintenance management systems.
DNER's above-mentioned state-assistance capacity would also be important for
the appropriate implementation and monitoring of this future operation.
6.    The scope of work would include the following main taskss
(a) finalize the preparation of the organizational design of DNER's
state-assistance unit, which will provide a detailed definition of the
unlt's objectives, functions, responsibilities, internal procedures, and
work program;



95-                          Anne lO
Page 3 of 3
(b) finalize the preparation of a Technical Manual for Road Main-
tenance, which would be a detailed guideline for the design, development
and Implantation of pavement management and contract maintenance
management systems, including methodologies and recommendations fort the
development of network maintenance policies and strategies, network
condition surveys and data bases, pavement diagnostics, and evaluation
of alternative maintenance strategies; pavement works programming, final
engineering and contracting; and network condition monitoring and
reporting;
(c) finalize the development of a training program for state road
maintenance, which will consist of two componentst (i) a program of
conferences and workshops aimed at disseminating among management and
professional staff from DNER, the DERs, and the State Governments
guidelines for the formulation and implementation of appropriate road
maintenance ?olicies, strategies, and programs; and (ii) a set of
courses and seminars, which will be offered to DER management and
professional staff and to State Government senior officers in the
following targetted areas: pavement management systems, contract
maintenance, strategic planning and budgetting, and roads and the
environment;
(d) implement part fi) of the above training program; DNER and ABDER
will be responsible for the technical courses, seminars and conferences,
and the planning and management training activities will be contracted
to specialized institutions.
For the purpose of carrying out the above work program, DNER will gradwally
strengthen its recently-established state-assistance unit, through appropriate
recruitment and/or reassignment and training of staff, and through contracting
adequate technical assistance.
7.    The timLag and cost of the program would be as follows:
(a) DNER will: (i) not later than January 31, 1990, have contracted
technical assistance to provide technical and operational si1pport to its
state-assistance unit, which will be gradually reduced when the unit
becomes operational; and (i$) gradually strengthen its state-assistance
unit so that, by June 30, 1990, it consists of, besides the unit
manager, at least two operational teams, each consisting of a highway
engineer, an economist and a institutional development specialist, and
five administrative and technical support staff. Draft terms of referen-
ce for the technical assistance have been prepared and agreed upon
during loan negotiations.
(b) The total cost of the state road maintenance action program was
estimated at about US$2.0 million (base cost), including the technical
assistance over the five-year 1990-1994 period (about US$1.35 million),
the unit's operational travel and office expenses (about US$350,000),
and the related training component (about US$300,000) (Table 3.7)
November 1989



-96-
Amex 11
Page , f 3
HIGHWAYS KAMODZNT AIM ROUIUTATION PROJECT
DNtIs 1990-1994 Rehabilitation and Haintenance Proarmi
1.       The present conditirn of the paved network based on the
193711986 survey le as follows
(a) about 202 of the network present structural problems with a
deflection coefficient above 601100 um and
(b) of the 34Zof the paved network which is currently wLth
deflection coeffLcients rangLng between 50 and 5ilO m- about
one flfth could annually move Into the problem-pavement
category if adequate perlodic maintenance is not timely
performed.
DNB Program
2.       DNEh's balanced and comprehensive policy, based upon the
assessments of alternative policies with the help of the highway Design and
Maintenance Model (HDM 3) and an assumed budgetary constraint of US$300
million equivalent p.a.. leads to the following targets detailed in
Table 3.2 are for the period 1990-1994:
(a) to rehabilitate povements with high deflectlon coefficient
and daily traffic volumes over 1,000 vehicles per day - some
7.200 km.
(b)  to overlay about 5,300 km on pavement in falr condition with
level of traffic between 500 and 5000 to stop pavement
deterioration.
(c)  to resel pavement through the surface treatment of about
14,400 km and 24.300 km of slurry seal to reduce the pace of
pavement deterioration.
3.       The routine maintenance program of DNER. based upon its policy to:                     b
(a) gradually phase out the program of maintenance delegation to
the States, and transfer portions of the federal network to
the jurisdictLon of the States.
(b)  gradually increase contract routine maintenance to about 9OZ
of the paved network; and
(c) to contlnue delegating the maintenance of remote highway
sections ln Amazonla to the Armed Forces is shown in Table I
of this annez.
4.       The total estimated cost of the five-year rehabliltation and
maintenance program would be about VS$2,212 million equivalent of which
about USS$19 million (3fl) for rehsbtlitation. USS681 million (31U) for
periodLc maintenance and ttS$732 million 4321R for routine maintenance. At
the end of the five-yar roriod and amqmiwna *lhat scit.tll 13,000 km of the



-97-
Annez 11
Pa    I 2f 3
paved network would be transfered to the States, the condition of the
federal paved network would be: 112 mainly of low trafficked roads in poor
condition (as against 202 currently), the same proportion about 352 would
be kept in fair condltion and the proportion in good condition would
increase from 402 to 542.
5.       The economic return of the rehabilitation and periodic program has
been estimated with EDM3 The internml rate of return varies betueen 35
and 400 depending on the selected technique and the level of traffic. The
averag weivLhted IRR for the five-year rehabilitation and periodic program
is 95S.
The Bank PrL!ect
6.       The Project would finance about 3,900 Km of DNR's five-year
rehabilitation pro6ram of about 12,300 km (about 321). Table 3.6 shows the
detall. of the rehabilitation component. It is expected based upon HDK3
results, that the Bank Project would finance rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance works only on road links with a daily traffic higher than
1,500. The inclusion of links with less traffic than this should be
speclfically and economically proven to be superior to links with traffic
exceeding 1.500 vpd.
7.       The base cost of the Project's rehabilitation component is
estimated to US$425 million equivalent. The average cost of US$110,000/km
is based on a sample of 1,500 km of final design, it includes about 102 for
improvement of capacity through construction of third lanes. Capacity
increase criteria would follow the specifications of the Capacity Increase
Guidelines to be developed under the Project. Duplication Works would not
be considered under the rehabilitation component.
8.       The Works would be divided into five groups corresponding to the
fLve-year program (table 3.7). The annual program_ing and corresponding
working plan would be discussed with the Bank. Special care would oe taken
to contract works in line with realLstic budget forecasts and counterpart
funds.
9.       The selection of the first year program is the result of a
continuous selection process that started in 1985.
Initial proposal presented by District Engineers have been
screened and analyzed using the HDM3 model. Out of an initial group of
1458 km a batch of 13 bidding lots totalling 813 km have been selected
(Table 3.3). The first year program only includes roads with a daily
traffic higher than 1500 vehicles; IRRs range from 8 to 149.  The final
designs and bidding documents have been approved by the Bank under the on-
going Federal Highways Sector Project which would enable accelerated
starting of the work. Since the First Year Program represents in monetary
terms about 282 of the component risks of delays due to engineering
preparation are reduced.



- 98-
98                ~~~~Annex 11
Page 3 of 3
Table 1
BRArIL
......-
HIGEVAYS MWAIGD1Z1T AND REZABXLITATION PROJECT
Routine Maintenance Program
I. UYSICAL TARGETS          aaancacaa5oy@ar program n(0O0) ---------
1986   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  Total
Paved  oads        ---- -       - ------      - ----- ------ ------
coutracted            36      36     36     35      34     33    174
deleguited             9       9      6      5       3      0     23
force &C.              4       4.     3      3      3       3     16
subtotal             49      49     45     43     40      36    213
Unpaved Roads
contracted              3      3      3      2       2      2     12
delegated               7      7      6      5       4      3     25
force &c.              4       4      3      2      2       2     13
subtotal             14      14     12      9      8       7     S0
Total Federal           63      63     57     32      48     43
Total Transferred                0      6     11      15     20
II.FINANCIAL TARGETS        -------- S-year program US$ million-------
US$/Km  1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  Total
Paved  Roads        ------  -c----  -----  a ------  ------  ------  -----
contracted          3000 108.00 108.00 105.00 102.00  99.00 522.00
delegated           2000  18.00  12.00  10.00   6.00   0.00  46.00
force ac.*          1750   7.00   5.25   5.25   5.25   5.25  28.00
subtotal                133.00 125.25 120.25 113.25 104.25 596.00
Unpaved Roads
contracted          1500   4.50   4.50   3.00   3.00   3.00  18.00
delegated            750   5.25   4.50   3.75   3.00   2.25  18.75
force sc.*  .       1100   4.40   3.30   2.20   2.20   2.20  14.30
subtotal                 14.15  12.30   8.95   8.20   7.45  51.05
Total USS Million           147.00 138.00 129.00 121.00 112.00 647.00
Total w.Emergency           162.00 151.00 142.00 134.00 123.00 712.00
'Cost in Budgetary tezms(without amortization of equipmeat)
Source: DNEP
Dates Septeaber 1989



-99-
Annex 12
rage 1 of 4
BRAZIL
ROAD MANAMGDNT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DNER's 1990-1994 SafetZ Procram
Pavement. Harkina CouDonent
DYER's pavement marking policy is based on technical criteria that
consider (1) the life period of the paint, (Li) the remaining life of the
running course and Mlll) the level of traffic (Table Si). Based on the
stated criteria the annual pavement marking needs are estimated about
36.500 km corresponding to about USS36 million. Slnce the rehabilitation
program includes about 10,200 km annually, the remaining annual needs are
of about 26,300 km corresponding to US$24 million.
2.       DNER's five year Safety Program provide for 1002 on high level
traffic roads (painting type III and IV), 502 on medium level traffic roads
(painting type II) and 102 on low level traffic roads (painting type I).
Over the five year period both the rehabilitation and pavement marking
components would fully providc the marking needs of 672 of the traffic that
is located on 38: of the network. The resulting five-year pavement marking
component would be of about 28,000 km for an estimated cost of USS38
million.
3.       The Bank project would continue to support specific pavement
marking by financing painting works on roads wLth a traffic higher than
3,000 per day. This corresponds to about 4,300 km for an estimated cost of
about US$16 million. Only high quality painting corresponding to paint
quality type III and IV would be used. Therefore the pavement marking
component of the proiect would focus on about 902 of the 5-year needs in
terms of traffic.
Black Spots Componer.C
4.       DNER has identified about 2.900 locations on the federal network
with a statistically significant frequency of accidents. The total cost nf
elimination of those 2,900 black spots is tentatively estimated to US$300
millon.  DNER has also carried out the diagnosis and final design of abQut
1,500 black spots.  The elimination of black spots is carried out thrnotah
the Pavement Rehabilitation Program and through a specific prngram that
started under the on-going Federal Highway Sector Projeet.
5.       DNER's five year program of elimination of black qpctts reqlltq
from the priority ranking of the almost dangerous routeq. The p-ngram
totals about VS$28 million including USS2 million for accident aialyqiq
design and engineering. The corresponding physical targets aims to
eliminate about 300 black spots (table S2).
6.       The Bank Project would address about one third of DNER's five-year
program and in particular the top List of the selected routes and of the
existing portfolio of available engineering designed projects. The black
spot, component would finance civil works (about US$7 million) and services
(about US$2 million), e.g. a total of 9 million .



- lOn -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
Video logAing Component
7.       both line marking and black spot subprograms have been helped by
the information obtained through a visual survey program 'video logging'.
By the dhd of 1986 about 30,000 km of the network had been covered at *
cost of US$14/km.  DNDR has drawn-up a wider application of the video
logging system and in particular to extend its use at the level of the
different Directorates and at the decentralized district level. The 5-year
video logging program is estimated to US$3.7 million.
8.       The Bank Project would support the survey-resurvey of the video
logging of the 50,000 km of the Pavement Rehabilitation Program. The
corresponding cost of 0.7 million is about 20S of the 5-year video log
program.
Highway Safety Campaign
. t
9.       The highway safety public campaign to supplement the measures
being taken to improve the safety aspects of the roadways would be
continued. The five-year program of DNER involves education through the
media and actions at school level.  The estimated cost of the 5-year
program would be about US$10 of which 602 through television, 18? through
the press. 8? through radio and 141 for specific actions. The Bank Project
would support the education campaign through the media for an estimated
amount of US$2.5 million.
I



- 101 -
SRAIL                              Ae    12
-a....                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~page 3 Of 
RIXBOAYS KAKGMT AIID 3ZSILITATION PROJECT               Table SI
Pavewnt Karking Component
_,            (US$ million equivaltet)
-._Painting Type .__..
I.NMS                   Typis  ?yp2 TypeS  Type4  Total
--- "-- -a- --- --  --   ----   flee  000   -*---
etwork (km)               27700 11900  5750  4650  50000
Frequency                     1     2     3     5
Annual Neede(Ia)          27700  5950  1917   910  36497
ArealXU (S2)                200   200   350   350
Unit Cost SW12             3.55  6.05     a    13
Unit Cost $lIm              710  1210  2800  4550
Anual NeedeCUSSa)         19.67  7.20  3.37  4.23  36.46
5-Year Needs (1a)       138500 29750  9583  4650 1824S6
Rehab Program (Sm)        35000  6230  7310  2390  51130
Remaining Needs (Km)    103500 23520  2073  2260 131353
II. Five-Year Program
PhysLcal Targets (gm)    10000 12000  2073  2260  26333
Financial Targets (USSa)  7.10 14.52  5.80 10.28  37.71
III Project
Physical Targets (Km)                  2073  2260   4333
Financial Targets (US$3)               5.80 10.26  16.09
Bank Participation(USSa)               2.32  4.11   6.43
Criteria Grid
-nne.__On0_0____._.S0-------------------
Life(years)of     Distibution (Z)
Type  ----------         --- ao.ooo.....
of         Runnin ADT  Network Traffic
Paint Paint Surfac(OOO)  In Km In Veh Ku
0_ 000    -0000   f_lO O   0000  --O-  -o------
I     1     43    a2   36        26
US     2     (3   2-3    24       20
III    3     a3   3-S    11       19
IV     5     25    35    9        35
source DOl
Date June 24 1689 lOt1O



- 102 -
hAZEL                                    x 12
_._c.              Page 4 of 4
IWU YAS MANASDUI  AM   UTMATION  lJICT                      Table S2
. ------------ .cCCc........... ,_e._ ......... __
Zlula ttoa of Black spothlVideolos CapamentIsafety Campaln
................    e- ......   .c .e..... e-----------
cccc..ne.cVicTgSg t@grein.........
A.ljack Spots Component          Fatal          0 of  N0 of   Total
._.__ ._....c.-          L.ng, Accident      Accident  slack   Cost
1.CtLi Wolhe                WA  2a402   AD?   196?   Spot       US$
_*.__...... .,._. _O__ _.__.... .... _
Available Portotollo                                     5  1,076,600
Uu inaau-S.M.D'Oeste       575  0.215  2260     1135  1  4,795,400
U   Pao atL               2Ls5 0.2an  2lg0        562    5    273,700
tecif. laceLo              257  0.220  401*       465   11  1,236,400
Volta  eondaS ?.tio       M22  0.202  5500       1521   19    S66,600
Vaidentifled                                           201 17,246,100
Subtotal                                               295 25,400,000
2.Segvlces
---  ...........................-.
Analysls,KAgilneernag                                       2,600,000
Total                                   2l,000,000
I.VLdeo Logging Component                                    3,700,000
O.Uighway Safety 'C ampai
TV                                                          6,000,000
Prm                                                         1.600,000
R*dlo                                                       2.400,000
Miscellaneous                                              . 00.000
Subtotal                                                   10,000,000
Totl ProgrAM (A+B.C)                                       42,700,000
,-----. Oe-.O .Y yer Proec*tc-------------
Fatal         N0 of  N0 of   Total
A.-lack Spots Componest Lngh Acecident    Accident Slack   Cost
l.ClvlI Vocke               I    lade:   AD?   196?   Spot   US$000
._ .. _..__...... .....0 ...........  ...... ............ ... Oa.... ........ ...................... .........
Available Portofolio                                    45  1,078,600
slummsu-S.LD'Oeeto         576  0.215  2260     1156   25  4,722,100
ito Parati                 165  0.222  2660      561    5    275,700
teciLt Macelo              237  0.210  4013      463   13  1,136,400
Volta Redoada 2.Uo         125  0.202  550o     1521   19    665.600
Total  aRose Cost)         1121                  $525   95  7,000,000
2.5ervicee
.....--   0-....... ___-.......-
Analyel,ft6lasecgia                                        2,000.000
total A (Base Cost)                                     9,000,000
3. VLdeolog Cpoapat
.. a.... .... --..... .O
Vll  agl9rcwee.ing      50,000                               700,000
C.i,ha Safety Campaig
TV C*9pa.g                                                  2,500,000
total PuaJect(A.+54)                                   12,200.000



- 103 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(a) Road Rehabilitation Cognonent
1.       The economic analysis of DNER's paved road rehabilitation and
maintenance program was performed in two phases. In the first phase, the
economically more desirable expenditure strategy for the network as a whole
was selected, based upon a general road condition s;Arvey. This strategy
indicates the recommended expenditure level for different categories of
roads, classified as a function of average traffic categories and pavement
conditions, and for a given level of budgetary availability. In a second
phase, specific stretches of roads, falling within categories for which
investments in rehabilitation and strengthening are recommended, were
identified and subjected to a detailed road condition survey and subsequent
engineering design. At this stage, a refined economic evaluation,
reflecting design standards and costs anti specified traffic projections,
was carried out for each stretch of road to confirm the economic priority
of the corresponding investment.
2.       In both phases of economic analysis, the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Model-Release III (HDM-III) was used.  This model predicts the
life-cycle costs of different road maintenance and rehabilitation options,
includir.g different time staging strategies, either for an entire highway
network or for a specific road subproject. It estimates the total costs
for large numbers of alternative expenditare strategies on a year-by-year
basis, and can thus be used to search for the alternative with the highest
net present value (NPV), at a given discount rate. The objective is, thus,
to search out that combination of standards and policies which results in
the minimum total life-cycle costs to society, including the costs to road
users, as well as the costs borne by the highway authority. Vehicle speeds
and operating costs, and road deterioration and maintenance costs are
internally estimated by the model as a function of road design and
maintenance standards, traffic volumes and axle loads, and environmental
conditions. Maintenance and vehicle operating costs are first estimated in
physical quantities; then prices and unit costs, as specified by the user,
are applied to determine the total financial, economic and foreign exchange
cost.
3.       DNER's basic objective, while preparing its road rehabilitation
and maintenance program, has been to determine an economic balance between
alternative standards of road rehabilitation, strengthening, resealing,
patching and other routine maintenance operation for the federal paved
network as a whole, for a given level of budgetary availability. The
network analysis was based upon a road condition survey covering about
20,000 km of DNER's paved network. The network was divided into six types



Annex 13
- 104                             Page 2 of 6
of representative sections, as a function of pavement surface (asphalt,
concrete and surface treatment) and of pavement condition (good, regular
and bad). Each of these sections, ia turn, was characterized by
engineering structural and condition parameters in order to be inputed into
the road deterioratiotu submodels of the HDM SII. For each of the sections
so ideatified, a further classification was established following a matrix
relating road condition to ten categories of traffic volumes. Each cell of
this ma-.riz represents the kilometrage of roads belonging to each traffic
category and whose pavement is characterized by a certain surfacelcondition
type.
4.       Traffic volumes were obtained from routine observation data.  Five
vehicle categories, namely cars, buses, medium trucks, heavy trucks and
truck combinations, were used to represent the traffic composition in the
analysie. Detailed information for each category was also provided,
including fuel type, gross vehicle mass, payload, equivalent number of
axles per vehicle, normal vehicle service life, hours and kilometers drive
per year. and average number of passengers per vehicle.
5.       Also, basic cost inputs were prepared.  These included unit costs
for the distinct categories of works to be simulated and or the different
components of vehicle ownership, operation and maintenance.
6.       The DNER initially developed several alternative investment
strategies for the period 1990-1994, by combining distinct standards and
types of works and different times of intervention, based upon network
condition but taking into consideration a first estimate of total
infrastructure costs associated with the implementation of each
alternative. Subsequently, strategy interaction with road condition.
traffic and environment was modeled using HDM-III. Results of this
simuletion allowed for a redefinition of the initial strategies, taking
intme   sount economic 'ptimality within each alternative and a refined
estv.j -  of the budgetary requirements associated with the corresponding
impl6mentation. Tho planning exercise was reiterated, and four policy
pna_ages, each corresponding to a combination of the investment strategies
initially simulated, were pre-selected since, for the same level of
investment, they would yield higher NPVs than all other alternatives.
7.       The recommended rehabilitation and maintenance strategy was
finally selected among the four more promising alternatives analyzed, by
matching budget requirements with foreseeable availability. Overall, the
strategy yields an NPV estimated at about US$1.42 billion for a discount
rate of 12. Since this value is in line with the value assumed for the
opportunity cost of capital in Brazil, the strategy is economically
justified. Moreover, it is also the preferred strategy with respect to the
alternatives analyzed since it is the one which maximizes the NPV under
budget constraints. For the 1990-1994 period, the strategy emphasizes
pavement strengthening ranging from surface treatment or light overlays for
low traffic sections in advanced condition of deterioration to 10-12 cm
overlays or even reconstruction, in heavy traffic sections in regularlbad
conditions. Sections with traffic volumes below 3,000 vehicles per day
would mostly be maintainGi just through routine maintenance operations if
they are in good or regular conditions; otherwise, light-to-medium
strengthening would be carried out.  A limited amount of light
strengthening would also be undertaken to prevent deterioration of road
sections still in good condition, provided they carry traffic volumes above
3,000 vehicles per day (Table 1 of this Annex).



Annex 13
- 105-                          Page 3 of 6              F
8.       Deitiled information on the analysis of DNIR's rehabilitation and
maintenance program is aviila'1e in the Project File (Annex 14).
9.       Computer printoui:s with the details of the economic analytis are
avallable in the Project F'le (Annex 14).
(b) Basic Assumptions
10.      The following basic assumptions were used in the economic
analysist
(a)   Traffics  annu& growth rates were taken at 82 for cars and 71 for
all other categories of vehicles in the analysis at the network
level.
(b)   Vehicle Operating Costs:  Basic vehicles costs are presented in
Table 2 of this Annex.
(c)   Economic Cotts:  Investment costs are based upon financial costs,
including 72 for engineering design and supervision, and 102 for
physical contingencies. Investment, maintenance and vehicle
operating costs are considered in constant June 1939 values, net
of taxes and other transfer payments.  Fuel costs were taken at
their border prices plus distribution and retailer's charges.
(c) Widening of Sao Paulo-Curitiba Road
11.      The economic analysis of this road, carried out by the DNER with
the assistance of consultants (PRODEC. Brazil), compares the economic cost
of duplicating the selected sections for the road with the benefits derived
from: (i) savings in vehicle operating costs (voc), (ii) passenger and
driver time savings (pdt); and (iii) savings in accident costs (ac). The
consultants detailed observations and assumptions are presented in their
report entitled: "The Ecor.omic Feasibility Study of the Regis Bittercourt',
which is included in the Project File. The main inputs into the analysis
are summarized below.
12.      Traffic:  The estimates of existing traffic were  based on
permanent traffic counts by the DNER on the road. The traffic growth rates
for the various classes of vehicles were based on historic growth rates
modified by current projections of future economic development in the areas
served by the road   Growth rates of 4.22, 2.52 and 5.12 p.a. were used for
automobiles, buses and trucks respectively. Table 1 summarizes the traffic
projections for the years 1992 and 2006.
13.      Vehicle Operating Costs:  The vehicle operating cost analysis was
based on vehicle operating cost manual developed by the DNER and adjusted
to reflect more recent results on road deterioration vrs. operating cost
relationships. Sample costs for the different road sections are summarized
in Table 2.
14.      HighwaY Accident Costs:  The accident costs analysis was based on
actual accident data kept by the DNER for the road. Consultants
assumptions on the cost of various damages encountered in accidents are in
line with the Bank's experience in Brazil and other South American
countries.



Annex 13
-106-                          Page 4 of 6
15.      Passenaer and Dr#.er Tlme Savinass  The values assigned to the
time of passengers and drivers are based on the results of research in
Brasll on similar roads. In all cases passengers were assLgned less than
half thelr real wages, commercial drLvers were assigned a factor of thelr
hourly wages deperding upon the length of time saved while automoble
drlvers were asslred factors ranging between 0 and 1.0 '.pending upon the
qaality of time saved.
16.      The resultLng beneflts for the selected road sections based upon
the above are summarized in Tabld 2. Based npon an assumed economic life
of 20 years for the duplicatlon works, the economic rates of return of the
various sections are shown ln Table 3 which also shows a sensltlvity
analysis assuming possible decrease of benefits of 202 and possible
increase in costs of 1OZ. For the selected lots, 3, 4, 112.3-DA and
112.3-DB the proposed investments would be economically feaslble.
17.      CapacLty Analyses:  The consultants also performed a capacity
analysis on -e selected roed sections based upon the US HLghrqay Capacity
Manual. Their results are summarLzed in Table 4 wh'ch shows that all the
road sectlons, except Lot 112.3-DA, would be operating at capacity by year
1992.



-107-L
Page 5 of 6
Table 1
DUPLICATION OF HIGHWAY BR 116lSP/PR
Section: SBo Paulo - Curitiba
1. Summary of Economic Anallsis
Lot         Length      Aversue Daily Traffic (1989)               ERi
Number         (Km)    Cars       Buses   Trucks        Total        I
1            39.15   3745        506       6201     10452         33.3
3            28.00   3628        479       6296     10403         33.2
4            51.00   1814        477       6146      8437         24.0
5            48.90    945        455       6823      8223         26.4
112.12         20.22   1010        302       6823      8135         29.8
3.DA         23.12   1042        305       6521      7868         23.6
3.DB         19.94   1042        305       1521      7868         23.2
2. Key Parameters (values in USS thousand)
Investment 1/                  First Year Benefits 2/
Lot     Second       Overlay    Total  Vechile 3/   Accident        Total
Number    Roadway   Exist: Road  Cost    Over:Cost   Reduction   Benefits
USS         US$        USs       USS          USS         US$
1        25,100        5,8iO    30,970    11.657          591       12,247
3        19,000        4,200    23,200      8,309         858        9.167
4        53,700        7,200    60,900    14,396       1,478        15,873
5        43,000        7,340    50,340    13,430       1,108        14,538
112.12     13,600        3,030    16,630      5,253         363        5,616
3.DA     22,000        3,470    25,470      6,076         299        6,375
3.DB     20,000        2,990    22,990      5,240         400        5,640
1/ Economic CostR.
2t  Opening Year-1993.
3/  Including Time Savings.
I



- 108-                                      Anuex 13
"age 6 of 6
Table 2
BENEfIT COST ANALYSIS (EXAWLE)          BR 116/SP/PR DUPUCATION PROJECT
USe
Nw Road Constructlen Cost: 4      _96
Overlay of Existing Road:   T74
Total Construction Costs      3400"
LOT     s
Beneit.       Benef its   Accident    Total          NPV                 Construct.       NPV
Noral T.   Gonoral T. Benefits  Benefit.           Benfts                    Cost    Construct.
989          0           O            O           O            6                       e           e
996          0           O            O           e            o                1866l8O6     706"18
991                      e            o           o                             26176060    15767924
992          0           0            0           6            *                1510200      7486974
998   1888806        96622      1118478    1458891       5696574                                   a
904   18769729      1944560    1154789    1514590W      460977178 
995   14227962      814841      1206278    15742516       a86292                                   6
909   14664787      468183      1247876    16988215      317642                                    0
997   156"666       027897      12052U1    16986216      2669822                                   6
900    15466768     826488      1848883    17626074      2142629                                   6
99    15827718     1062761      1393264    18278743      1767645                                   6
goo   16175926     la11865      1448889    18981186      144067(                                   6
661   1649944      1604734      1494264    19W8441       1180098                                   0
002   16798482     1938881      1545658    26272446       965846.2                                 0
603   17066174     2299781      1598821    20963226       790257.7                                 O
604   17804086     2186519      1861667    21601401       646169.7                                 0
006   17611738     8a15858      170658    22870971        527972.4                                 o
666   176868560    644970       1083614    2601631 4      488687.0                                 0
007   17828844     4181890     1816658    28826892        852654.8                                 0
608   17936314     4766288     1878117    24672609        267089.4                                 a
009   18007056     5899679     1981908    2688872         28489a.8                                 0
16   18661076      676649       1992172    26128697       191248.6                                 O
611   18007196     6795310     2121407    27828916        161196.8                                 0
81207798     1.28884             312065097
Basic Premise:
Existing Highway - Maximum Capacity = 26S600  PCUs per day (2011)
- Peak Hour Factor 853
- Equivaleney Factor (trucks and buses) = 2
- Declining Growth Rates to limit of 25,66 capacity In 2011
Duplicated Highway:
- Level of Service C/D
- Truck and bus equiveloncy factore a existing situation
- Treffic growth rates (geometric)
Cars 4.25W year
Buses 2.SX per yer
Trucks 6.2X year
Vehicle Operating Coats VO' Model:
- IRR4/k- with duplication: So/km existing road
- Benof Its 6OOX normal traffic (up to capacity limit of existing rot.)
- Generated Traffic (Difference between existing capacity and free
growth
growth rates a 56X of benefits.



- 109 ,
Annex 14
Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.       DNER's Functional Responsibilities
2.       DNER's Organizational Study
3.       Economic Feasibility Study of the Duplication
of Sao Paulo - Curitiba Road
4.       Terms of Reference for DNER and GEIPOT studies and
technical assistance
5.       HDM Analysis of the Federal Road Network
6.       DNER's Highway Safety Program (1989-91)
7.       Environmer.cal Study of Sao Paulo-Curitiba road
(Lots 1, 3, 4, 5, 112.12, 3DA, 3DB)



-110 -                                              Chart 1
HIOWAYS  tA1      ff NO RAS4tIUTATIt4 PRDJE
Tentative ScheAule for Subsector Raeorania.stion and Strength ening of If  IER d the MPi's
1T84                           1988         1989         1910        19'1       1992      198      1994
1. Assessment of the technical a*d management
capacity of the CHER and the VtW' and th,
b             formulation of policy actions
2. DWfinition of the baesic atuctura of the ON              _
S. Prosulgatlon of the na constitution
4. Updating of the functional cleasification
of road- in tho National Hlighway Plan
S. Preparation of concrete technical propoalsa
for diwcuesion with National and States
authorstic. for transfer of responeib;lities
for some federal road-
S. Discusion of proposal with the States
7. Submission of legislation to Congrss for                                                   s
decision on revised P.N.V and transfer to the
States
8. Decision of Congrs  (tentative) and                                                                  we  -   -   -   a  -
transfer of executive responsibilities
9. Implementation of ONER's reorganization end                             - s  -   -   -s  -   -    -           v -    - -
strengthening
Source DONE / Mission
Novegber 1989



- 1211 -                       Chart 2
BRAZIL
ROAD MANAGEMENT AND REHABILUTATION PROJECT
Now Organizatlon of the Federal Highway Department (ONER)
ca   Dlr Sn.-Cowldl~~~~~~~~~~~~cac~459
.                                 .~~~~~Gn
Orun                                         Ex    I
I
-roa                                             Road
Rw  d                                          Ruesed
PI   and                                                                   TnxPoedsw T"g  
OEnrOibneO    Disin Dbbb
clRa                 Trand                                andaspt | ||  @viss|  |In
DMIa      |      |Ehafon           |saniaon  |=-                D    li=           lvh
a nd               V  el nd   U|                           USek                   Ss |ce
SWHAb  [             z      I                               INi{m I 
Givision~[                               o 
I tsw  I~~~~~~CCW5



BRAZIL.
HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schematic Representation of Sao Paulo-Curitlba Road
20l2km  fkm2Bk 25            20k      2Ek 8m W49 km               6t bnk       28I  I   31km  .       k                to67_a
|   _ _,d,,,, .............4   --1- *.**.'.**...
34DO   3-DA                               Lot 6                         Lot a     Lot 2      Lot I
Exlh  44ne Rod
...        l Exk  2ane ROad
- - -    zPrposed BMukc=                                                                                                 kur/w4#615



I.-
iBRD 21 B7i
V E N E Z U E L A      8               ,r-      z40
N,       S U R I N A M E     GU I AN A)
/   \             11BRAZIL
C O L O MA E I A   ,If                   BO3A VISTA '        )*                 j     tBAI
COLOMBI A,    O0A t GUYANA\. C-                                                           HIGHWAYS MANAGEMENT
f-p\                         .                                                             AND
L.z    ,,,>_s,.              \RORAIMA"                         '  AMAPA                             REHABILITATION PROJECT
;       1                               /.tfWwi-                                                                            T &s  CFA
A MAZ O NA S                                                                                                   IRREPASIA.NA ,   MA A HA    /   RgIOGRNLR DO N0.
j/                              '                           /,1E                                         MARANH{OM Al,                                 ,
&  _                     ~~~~B        R         A           Z         I         L               \..-,  f      PIAU'    >                >*      JREocAlOEPESSOA
P IsU/.  r    8A|A-.                                      1  1.                                                                                         RECI|PE
N~~~~                              =.. yPET             MATO      GRSS                ,                          s  Y    
PARAGU1 RIO      -A          O V/LO                       / I<S
-2C-AMAO N                                                                                                             R \ONOAROGRANDE                 00 N.t
PERU              MATO   GROSSO                YrN.  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-s ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ESO
HS      INST PROGRAM: U . 'I
RIO                                                                  rtACEMA~~~~AT
PAR AGO AS N ~ ~    ~     ~     TO      IN                                              kAGA
P0                                                                         GRARDEU
HIGHWAYS INVESTMENIT    V  PRGAM              L                     J            Ut
Highways Managemnent and Rehabiliotion Project Reods  \                      O PAULO             RIO SJAT    RE  J ANEIRO
Federol Highways Setdor Project Roads                                      5   PAULORd s                   DE JANAN
Sixth Highway Project Roods
Federol Highways
o    Notional Copitls                                        t      -.....      0                     A IZ A N TI C   O CEA N
O    State Capitols                                                        N
State Boundaries                                                                     6POLIS
- - -   Internotional Boundaries
RIO-GRA  3    ~      M.no                0     200    400  r00
70-                              6                                5r                               40                                30
SEPTEMBER 19t



