Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3169 BR
(Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project)
 between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 30, 1991
 LOAN NUMBER 3169 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30,  1991, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"DNER" means Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, an autarquia 
Page  2
of the Borrower's Ministry of Infrastructure (the Ministry), under  its National 
Transport Secretariat (the Secretariat) designated by the  Borrower to act on its 
behalf as the agency charged with the execution of most of the Project;
(b)
"GEIPOT" means Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes an  
agency of the Ministry that will assist the Ministry in the carrying out of  Part A.1, 
Part A.3 and Part A.5 (a) and (e) of the Project;
(c)
"Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank (Federal Highways Sector Project) for Loan 2446-BR, dated July  30, 1984, and 
the term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental thereto, all as amended 
from time to time, and "Prior Project" means the project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Prior Loan Agreement;
(d)
"State" means any of the political sub-divisions of the Borrower and 
"State Agency" means the Road Department of a State; 
(e)
"IPR" means Instituto de Pesquisas Rodoviarias, DNER's Highway Research 
Institute;
(f)
"Highway Rehabilitation Sub-project" means a specific highway project 
proposed to be carried out under Part B.1 of the Project, consisting mainly of one  or 
more of the following works: pavement overlay, strengthening and rehabilitation, 
bituminous surface treatment and improvement of roadside drainage;
(g)
"Approved Highway Rehabilitation Sub-project" means a Highway 
Rehabilitation Sub-project, as so defined, which has been approved by the Bank for 
financing under the Loan;
(h)
"Engineering Sub-project" means a specific engineering project proposed 
to be carried out under Part B.2 of the Project, consisting of detailed engineering 
for a Highway Rehabilitation Sub-project;
(i)
"Approved Engineering Sub-project" means an Engineering Sub-project, as 
so defined, which has been approved by the Bank for financing under the Loan;
(j)
"Road Safety Sub-project" means a specific road safety project proposed 
to be carried out under Part C.2 of the Project, consisting of  improvement of high 
accident locations in the federal highway system in order  to reduce the number and 
severity of traffic accidents;
(k)
"Approved Road Safety Sub-project" means a Road Safety Sub-project, as so 
defined, which has been approved by the Bank for financing under the Loan;
(l)
"Pavement Marking and Striping Sub-project" means a specific pavement 
marking and striping project proposed to be carried out under Part C.5 of the Project, 
consisting of restriping the road pavement, including the central line, pavement edges 
and no-passing indications;
(m)
"Approved Marking and Striping Sub-project" means a Pavement Marking and 
Striping Sub-project, as so defined, which has been approved by the Bank for financing 
under the Loan;
(n)
"Pavement Repair Sub-project" means a specific pavement repair project to 
be carried out under Part D of the Project, consisting of  patching, seal coats and 
localized overlays on partly deteriorated pavements,  with a maximum estimated cost of 
$25,000 equivalent per km.
(o)
"Approved Pavement Repair Sub-project" means a Pavement Repair 
Sub-project, as so defined, which has been approved by the Bank for financing under 
the Loan;
(p)
"Special Account" means either of the Accounts to be opened and 
maintained pursuant to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement, 
unless otherwise required by the context; "CESA" and "FESA" means  each of the Special 
Accounts referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c), respectively, of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; and "Account Bank" means the bank referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 
Page  3
2.02 of this Agreement;
(q)
"Plano de Aplicacao" means the annual plan, agreed to at the beginning of 
each fiscal year between DNER, through the Ministry, and the Borrower's Departamento 
do Tesouro Nacional (the Treasury), in respect of the  timetable for the release of 
funds for expenditures under the Project;
(r)
"cruzeiro" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
 
(s)
"Pavement Management System" means the pavement management system  for 
resealing, strengthening and rehabilitation of paved federal highways  established 
under Part E of the Prior Project and set forth in DNER's Service Instruction 3/84 
dated April 4, 1984;
(t)
"Control Legislation" means the Borrower's legal provisions  concerning 
size and control of vehicles using federal highway network including the Borrower's 
Decreto Lei No. 117 of January 31, 1967, as amended  up to the date herewith and 
supplemented by the Lei No. 5.108 of September 21, 1966 (CNT) and its regulations 
through the Decreto No. 62.127/1968 - RCNT, as amended by Decretos No. 82.925/78, 
88.686/83 and 98.933/90 and by the Lei No. 7.408 of November 25, 1985; and 
(u)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine  
established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the  opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, 
in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred  ten million 
dollars ($310,000,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open, or cause DNER 
to open on behalf of the Borrower, and thereafter maintain in dollars a  special 
account in the Borrower's Central Bank (Central Bank) on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, this special account 
(hereinafter called CESA) shall be made exclusively to
meet expenditures in cruzeiros incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required to carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project, open, or cause DNER 
to open on behalf of the Borrower, and maintain thereafter in a bank  acceptable to 
the Bank (the Account Bank), a special account in dollars on  terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of this special account 
(hereinafter called FESA) shall be made exclusively  to meet expenditures in 
currencies other than cruzeiros incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required to carry out the Project  and to be financed by the Bank 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(d)
Deposits into, and payments out of, the CESA and the FESA shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The  Borrower, 
through the Central Bank and DNER, shall furnish to the Bank each month certified 
statements of the CESA and the FESA, respectively.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each  Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in  respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the  preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the 
date immediately preceding each date specified in Section 
2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in 
which this Agreement is 
signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as rasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such  borrowings or 
portions thereof as the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's 
investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 
bearing 
interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) 
of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended 
to read as follows:
             "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount 
of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a  
rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
             "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
             "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Infrastructure of the Borrower or the  person or 
persons designated by said Minister are designated as representatives of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
Page  5
provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through 
the Ministry of Infrastructure, carry out or cause, as provided in paragraph (b) 
below, the Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate engineering,
administrative, road safety, maintenance and financial practices, and shall  provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the purpose.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than 90 days after the date of this  
Agreement, enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with DNER 
and GEIPOT for the purpose of ensuring the assistance of DNER and GEIPOT in the 
carrying out of the Project, such arrangements to provide, inter alia, that: (i) DNER 
and GEIPOT shall participate in the carrying out the Project
with due observance of the requirements referred to in paragraph (a) above; and (ii) 
DNER and GEIPOT shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the  Bank, to provide 
for the administrative, financial and operational arrangements required for GEIPOT's 
participation in Parts A.1, A.3 and A.5  (a) and (e) of the Project, such agreement 
not to be, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, assigned, abrogated, amended or 
waived.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the contractual arrangements 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the  purposes of the Loan, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, abrogate, 
amend or waive such arrangements, or any provision thereof.
(d)
The Borrower shall, without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) 
above and for purposes of the execution of Part A.2 (b) (iii), Part A.2 (b)  (vi), 
Part A.5, Parts C.1 and C.2, and Part C.4 of the Project, respectively:  (i) appoint a 
pavement engineer by not later than ninety days after the date of this Agreement and 
start the execution of Part A.2 (b) (vi) of the Project by not later than ninety days 
after the date of this Agreement; (ii) before  undertaking any research activity under 
Part A.2 (b) (vi) of the Project, seek and obtain the approval of the Bank of each 
proposal concerning each such activity, such proposal to contain the objectives, 
relevance, scope, estimated costs and intended application and dissemination of, and 
resources necessary for, carrying out the research activity in question; (iii) 
complete the execution of Parts A.5 (b) and Part A.5 (d) of the Project by not later 
than  December 31, 1992, and of Parts A.5 (a) and A.5 (c) of the Project by not later 
than June 30, 1991, and begin to execute Part A.5 (e) of the Project by not later than 
ninety days after the date of this Agreement with respect to DNER developed 
guidelines; (iv) furnish to the Bank by not later than ninety days after the date of 
this Agreement, evidence that arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been put into 
effect for coordinating the  identification of high frequency accident locations, the 
design of their improvement and the implementation of the works under Road Safety 
Sub-projects; and (v) not undertake any activity under Part C.4 of the Project, unless 
the Borrower and the Bank have agreed on the information to be collected thereunder 
and the methods of incorporating such information into the Borrower's highway 
information system.
(e)
Without limiting or restricting the generality of paragraph (a) above, 
the Borrower shall: (i) exchange views with the Bank not later than June 30, 1991, 
June 30, 1992 and December 31, 1992, or, if earlier, promptly upon their completion, 
on the final report and recommendations deriving from  the studies included in Part 
A.3, Part A.4 (a) and Part A.4 (b) through (d) of the Project, respectively; and (ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment and exchange views on the findings 
and recommendations of each  study before putting into effect the recommendations 
deriving from each such study.
(f)
Without limitation to or restriction upon the provision of paragraph (a) 
above, the Borrower shall cause its Treasury to make available to DNER,  through the 
Page  6
Ministry, all funds for expenditures, to be financed by the Borrower or from the 
proceeds of the Loan, required to carry out the Project in accordance with, and within 
the time periods set forth in, the relevant Plano de Aplicacao.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall establish single registries of contractors and 
suppliers for purposes of the Project to meet local registration requirements  for 
procurement made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph C.1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Not later than January 31 of each year, starting not later than ninety 
days after the date of this Agreement, the Borrower shall publish  advertisements in 
two newspapers of wide national circulation in Brazil,  acceptable to the Bank, in the 
Borrower's Diario Oficial and in Development  Business or other specialized 
international publication, acceptable to the Bank, containing information, 
satisfactory to the Bank, about the Project, the types and amounts of contracts 
expected to be awarded under the Project in the next two years and requirements to be 
met for inclusion in the registry referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(d)
The Borrower shall establish a time period of at least 30 days from the 
date of the last advertisement for the submission of bids for contracts  procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) When presenting to the Bank a Highway Rehabilitation 
Sub-project for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank through DNER an 
application in a form satisfactory to the Bank containing: (i) a description and 
analysis of the respective Sub-project including: (1) design  standards; (2) final 
cost estimates; (3) average daily traffic by vehicle type; (4) final implementation 
schedule; and (5) economic evaluation; and (ii) such other information as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
(b)
When presenting to the Bank an Engineering Sub-project for approval, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank through DNER an application in a form satisfactory 
to the Bank, containing: (i) a description and analysis of the respective Sub-project 
including: (1) information concerning the rationale  for Sub-project identification 
and alternatives considered; (2) average daily traffic by vehicle type; (3) 
recommended design standards; (4) preliminary  cost estimates; (5) tentative 
implementation schedule; and (6) preliminary  economic evaluation; and (ii) such other 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
The Borrower shall, when presenting a Road Safety Sub-project to the Bank 
for approval, furnish to the Bank through DNER applications in a form  satisfactory to 
the Bank, containing: (i) at a preliminary stage, a report including analysis of high 
accident location points, included  in the respective Sub-project, an economic 
evaluation of improvements proposed to be executed and the engineering design proposed 
to be financed at this preliminary stage; and (ii) upon completion of the engineering 
design works referred to in (i) above: (1) a description of the works to be carried 
out in  the respective Sub-project; (2) a detailed engineering design; and (3) the 
definitive economic justification, including the priority rank of the proposed 
Sub-project in respect of other Road Safety Sub-projects; and (iii) such other 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d)
The Borrower shall, when presenting a Pavement Marking and Striping 
Sub-project to the Bank for approval, furnish to the Bank through DNER an  application 
in a form satisfactory to the Bank, containing: (1) average daily  traffic by vehicle 
type, (2) rehabilitation and overlay plans for the road in question, (3) the estimated 
cost and type of striping, (4) a schedule for
the striping, and (5) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(e)
The Borrower shall, when presenting a Pavement Repair Sub-project to the 
Bank for approval, furnish to the Bank through DNER an application in a form 
satisfactory to the Bank, containing (i) a description of the respective  Sub-project 
including: (1) identification and localization of works; (2) estimates of quantity and 
Page  7
cost of works; (3)  average daily traffic; and (4) implementation schedule; and (ii) 
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(f)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall present to 
the Bank for its approval, only Highway Rehabilitation Sub-projects or  Road Safety 
Sub-projects which are in accordance with the priorities of the Pavement Management 
System but which shall, in no case, have an economic rate of return of less than 12%, 
such rate of return to be calculated in accordance
with a method satisfactory to the Bank.
(g)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes not to 
change the terms or scope of an Approved Highway Rehabilitation Project or an Approved 
Engineering Project or an Approved Road Safety Sub-project or an Approved Marking and 
Striping Sub-project or an Approved Pavement Repair Sub-project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through DNER: (a) adopt adequate 
organizational arrangements and procedures for developing and implementing the 
Pavement Management System, as enhanced under Part A.2 (b) (iii) of the Project, for 
resealing, strengthening, rehabilitation, routine maintenance and paving of federal 
highways.
(b)
Prepare its annual and pluriannual highway programs, including the 
program for the works referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, in accordance with 
policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank and annually exchange views 
with the Bank on such programs.
Section 3.05. Not later than, ninety days after the date of this Agreement and 
June 30 of each year thereafter, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank, on 
the execution of Part A.2 of the Project, particularly in respect of Part A.2 (a) and 
(b) (i) thereof, on the transference of responsibilities to the State Agencies, and on 
the results of the research program to be carried out under Part A.2 (b) (vi) of the 
Project and the incorporation of the recommendations of said research into DNER's 
design norms
and manuals.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all reasonable 
action required for the issuance of such import and other permits and licenses as 
shall be necessary for the acquisition and importation of  goods and services required 
for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained on 
behalf of the Borrower by DNER and GEIPOT separate records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the  operations, resources and 
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have or cause DNER and GEIPOT, both on behalf of the Borrower, to 
have the 
records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section (including 
those for the Special Accounts) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish or cause DNER and GEIPOT, both on behalf of the Borrower, 
to furnish 
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish or cause DNER and GEIPOT, both on behalf of the Borrower, 
to furnish 
to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
Page  8
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained on behalf of the Borrower by 
DNER and 
GEIPOT, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain or cause DNER and GEIPOT, both on behalf of the Borrower, 
to retain 
until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable or cause DNER and GEIPOT, both on behalf of the Borrower, 
to enable the 
Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure or cause DNER and GEIPOT, both on behalf of the Borrower, 
to ensure 
that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the  procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall continue to take appropriate measures to ensure 
that the provisions of the Control Legislation, regarding the limitation on the size 
and weight of vehicles using the Borrower's federal highway network are fully 
enforced.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the highways included in its 
federal highway network to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs, 
strengthening and rehabilitation thereof to be made promptly, all in  accordance with 
sound engineering practice; (ii) cause all DNER's road maintenance, workshop and 
research equipment and facilities to be adequately
maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in 
accordance with appropriate technical and engineering practices; and (iii) provide or 
cause to be provided, the funds, facilities, services and other  resources required 
for the foregoing.
(b)
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall, 
through DNER: (i) adopt methods for determining adequate maintenance  levels, methods 
for cost accounting, and funding procedures for maintaining  federal highways, such 
methods and procedures to be satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) (A) continue applying 
its current maintenance standards and related costs in terms satisfactory to the Bank, 
unless their revision is warranted; and (B) maintain the system for the updating of 
such maintenance standards  and relative prices of inputs every two years, which was 
established by DNER pursuant to Section 4.05 (b) (iii) (B) of the Prior Loan 
Agreement.
(c)
Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall present to the Bank, through DNER, not later than July 1 of each year, annual 
and pluriannual highway programs, including those for the strengthening  and 
rehabilitation of its federal highway network and a budget proposal in that respect 
for the following calendar year, and exchange views with the Bank thereon.
(d)
The provisions of this Section supersede the provisions of Section 4.05 
of the Prior Loan Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall continue to maintain facilities to  collect and 
record systematically such data as are required to assess the  technical, economic and 
financial aspects of the highway system included in the Borrower's territories.
Page  9
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, upon the taking of any decision by the  
Borrower's Legislative Branch, or by the Borrower's Executive Branch or any  
administrative subdivision thereof, on any aspect related to the following up  of Part 
A.2 (a), or Part A.3 or Part A.4 of the Project, furnish to the Bank a plan of action 
for the implementation of the decision in question, including a time-table therefor, 
and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its views on the matter before 
any implementation action is taken.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the counterpart funds required to carry out the first year of  the 
Project shall have been allocated in terms consistent with the estimated costs 
therefor in the 1991 budget of the Borrower;
(b)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Borrower's 
Central Bank; and
(c)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to this 
Agreement, together with all necessary powers  and rights in connection therewith, 
have been performed or given.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank; and
 
(b)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, its agencies and administrative subdivisions, or otherwise to be 
performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable 
the Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to this Agreement together with all 
necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 5.03. The date of July 30, 1991 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco P, 8o andar
70048-Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506
Page  10
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Ministry of Infrastructure
Secretaria Nacional dos Transportes
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco R, 5o Andar
70044 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611096
612262
Departamento Nacional de
Estradas de Rodagem
Ed. Nucleo dos Transportes
SAN, Quadra 3, Lote A
70040 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
614023
614025
Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de
Transportes - GEIPOT
Ed. Nucleo dos Transportes
SAN-Bloco A-Quadra 3, 2o andar
70040 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611316
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
   do Ministerio da Economia,
Fazenda e Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco K, 5o Andar
70040 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
DEAIN
611146
              Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  11
IN WITNESSES WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Zelia Maria Cardoso de Mello
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
 Regional Vice President
 Latin America and the Caribbean
   /s/ Eduardo Texeira
   /s/ Jose Henrique D'Amorin de Figuereido
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Works under              179,500,000     40%
     Parts B and C
     of the Project
(2)  Works under               50,000,000     75%
     Part D of the
     Project
(3)  Goods                        800,000     100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              40% of local
                                              expenditures
(4)  Consultants'
     services for:
     (a)  Parts B, C           15,800,000     40% of local
          and D of                            expenditures for
          the Project,                        services of con-
          including                           sultants residing
          engineering                         within the terri-
          and super-                          tory of the
          vision                              Borrower and
Page  12
                                              100% of foreign
                                              expenditures for
                                              other consultants
     (b)  Training              4,300,000     50% of local
          and high-                           expenditures for
          way research                        services of con-
                                              sultants domiciled
                                              with-in the
                                              territory of the
                                              Borrower and 100%
                                              of foreign expendi-
                                              tures for services
                                              of other con-
                                              sultants and 50%
                                              of other training
                                              expenditures
(5)  Consultants'               5,280,000     80% of local
     services for                             expenditures for
     technical                                consultants
     assistance                               residing within
     under Part A                             the territory of
     of the Project                           the Borrower and
                                              100% of foreign
                                              expenditures for
                                              other consultants
(6)  Overseas                     300,000     100% of foreign
     fellowships                              expenditures
(7)  Unallocated               54,020,000
                              ___________
          TOTAL               310,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of  this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding  the 
equivalent of $30,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1, 2 and 4 (a) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 above on account of payments made for expenditures 
under Part B and Part D of the Project and in respect of Category 5 of the said table 
on account of payments made for expenditures under Part A (2) (b) (iv),  Part A.3, 
Part A.4, and Part A.5 of the Project,  before that date but after October 1, 1989.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to help in redefining the highway  
network under the Borrower's jurisdiction and the responsibilities of the Borrower's 
and States Agencies in respect thereof, and in gradually  transferring to the States 
new responsibilities in respect of highway  management and rehabilitation; (b) to 
assist in restructuring DNER and strengthening its role as the Borrower's national 
road agency; (c) to continue maintaining rehabilitating and improving roads in the 
major transport corridors of Brazil; (d) to improve policy formulation, strategic 
planning and coordination for the transport sector; and (e) to develop environmental 
Page  13
standards in the transport sector and to improve compliance therewith.
The Project consist of the following Parts:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening and Policy Reforms Plans
 
This part of the Project comprises the following:
1.
Sector-Wide Planning and Coordination. Strengthening of the Ministry's 
capabilities on sector-wide planning and formulation, including clearer policy  and 
budgetary guidelines for transport sector for, and enhancing the supervision and 
reviewing by the Ministry of, GEIPOT's work, and preparation  by GEIPOT of medium term 
strategic plans for the development and operation of three major transport corridors 
to be selected in agreement between the Borrower, acting through the Ministry and the 
Bank.
2.
Reform and Strengthening of Highways Subsector Administration.
 
(a)
Transferring responsibility on management and rehabilitation of some 
roads currently under the Borrower's jurisdiction to the States and  consequential 
reorganization of DNER so as to strengthen DNER's role, as national road agency, to 
coordinate the strategic development of Brazil road  network, and to provide 
technological leadership to the road subsector and standarized rules and procedures in 
order to avoid the inconsistencies, that in these areas, could accompany the aforesaid 
transference of responsibility, all in accordance with the chart set forth in Annex 1 
hereto. The  aforesaid  will also include overseeing and analyzing the said 
reorganization of the subsector and recommending the necessary changes as the 
reorganization proceeds, and the creation of a new Planning Unit in DNER and 
establishing its planning and coordination roles for the highways subsector as a whole 
and developing relevant procedures and methods.
(b)
The aforesaid will be accompanied by the following measures, which, 
independently from those required to be taken as a consequence of (a) above,  will 
permit DNER to strengthen its current role, as national road agency, to coordinate the 
strategic development of Brazil road network, and to provide technological leadership 
to the road subsector and standardized rules and
procedures for the subsector: (i) detailing of areas of DNER's operations which are 
not sufficiently clear now, such as job description and  accountability, and analyzing 
in detail DNER's recruitment needs; (ii)  developing the 1991 to 1995 pluriannual 
highway plan and budget proposals for  the Ministry and training the staff of the 
aforesaid DNER's Unit on highway planning and pluriannual budgeting and policy 
formulation activity; (iii) enhancing the Pavement Management System by strengthening 
DNER's capabilities for reviewing and improving the design of the information to be 
collected  under, and the diagnostic and interpretative stages of, the Pavement 
Management System; (iv) improving and modernizing traffic engineering by DNER and 
developing norms for road widening; (v) enhancing DNER's ability to train its own 
staff and to contribute effectively toward the training of staff of the States 
Agencies by means of: (A) developing a sound training policy and  program which 
emphasizes both technical, managerial and administrative training for DNER staff; (B) 
expanding DNER's existing training facilities;  and (C) providing adequate and 
qualified manpower resources to train staff, including overseas and domestic training 
for DNER staff both in the technical and managerial areas, and acquisition for and 
utilization by DNER of training equipment; (vi) execution of a research program by 
DNER consisting of: (A)  pavement performance research linked with the international 
highway pavement  research program (SHRP) aimed at re-evaluating pavement design 
methods and performance; (B) development of new standards and procedures for pavements 
and overlays; (C) review and adaptation of management systems for structures; (D) 
development of the hydrological data base; (E) monitoring of slope estability;  (F) 
investigations of asphalt quality requirements and properties of asphalt  additives; 
(G) additional research into the use of the highway design model (HDM); and (H) other 
research on roadway characteristics and driver behavior in Brazil to be agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank; and (vii) strengthening of DNER capabilities to assist the 
State Agencies in preparing their respective road rehabilitation and maintenance 
programs.
3.
Highway Cost Recovery
 
Page  14
Formulation and execution of policy reforms aimed at ensuring for the Borrower's 
government sound highway cost recovery policies and regimes and  adequate monitoring 
systems for updating the charges. The aforesaid will  include: (i) formulating a 
highways cost recovery policy, based on studies to be carried out with the assistance 
of GEIPOT which will enable the application of road-user charges which: (A) will have 
levels which will permit at least the recovery of short-term  marginal costs; (B) will 
be free of distortions detrimental to proper fuel conservation practices; and (C) will 
be subject to  updating in a timely fashion as required to achieve (A) and (B); (ii) 
reviewing the new structure and levels of road-user charges and recommending 
modifications thereto in light of the policy to be formulated under (i) above and 
recent development and changes in Brazil's constitutional and fiscal laws; and (iii) 
designing and establishing a system to monitor the adequacy of  road-user charges. The 
aforesaid methods of adjustments to the road-user  charges system will reflect changes 
in road work costs and prices of the major user-charge components.
4.
Review of Transport Regulations
 
Formulation and execution of plans of action, geared towards a better 
understanding of the characteristics and status of the trucking industry and the 
removal of unwarranted regulations which may harm said industry's  development or 
performance, including: (a) reviewing the enforcement of  vehicle weight controls and 
preparing recommendations in connection thereto; (b) executing an in-depth study of 
the trucking industry to analyze the impact of current regulations on minimum net 
haulage capacity and area for parking, storage and repairs; (c) reviewing measures to 
encourage investments in trucking capacity; and (d) establishing an appropriate system 
for monitoring  the performance of the trucking industry.
5.
Improvement in Environmental Control
 
Formulation and execution of a plan of action aimed at developing and  putting 
into effect appropriate environmental guidelines for the sector and at introducing 
effective monitoring mechanisms of compliance therewith, including: (a) environmental 
guidelines for application thereof by DNER and  GEIPOT for the roads and other 
transport modes, respectively; (b)  strengthening DNER's recently established 
environmental unit; (c) establishing within the Ministry a transport environmental 
unit and adequately staffing thereof; (d) establishing procedures that will require 
the reviewing by DNER, from an environmental view-point and in a timely fashion, of 
selected major  road projects; and (e) training of staff of the Ministry, GEIPOT, DNER 
and State Agencies engaged in environmental control activities.
Part B:
Highway Rehabilitation
 
1.
Execution of Approved Rehabilitation Sub-projects in the federal highway system 
which have a high priority for the economic and social development of Brazil.
2.
Execution of Approved Engineering Sub-projects for the maintenance and 
rehabilitation of the federal highway system.
Part C:
Highway Safety
 
1.
Analysis of high frequency accident locations on federal highways and  detailed 
engineering of proposed road safety improvement for such locations.
2.
Execution of Approved Road Safety Sub-projects in the federal highway system.
 
3.
Continuation of the Highway Safety education program and public campaign 
initiated under Part B of the Prior Project.
4.
A program for surveying and re-surveying about 20,000 kilometers of roads by the 
various directorates of DNER by means of an advanced visual survey methodology.
5.
Execution of Approved Pavement Marking and Striping Sub-projects in the federal 
highways system.
6.
Review, and if warranted, revision of DNER's safety design standards.
 
Part D:
Pavement Repair
Page  15
Execution of Approved Pavement Repair Sub-projects on sections of the federal 
highway system which have an average daily traffic higher than 1,500 vehicles.
*               *               *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
ANNEX 1
Schedule for actions under Part A.2 of the Project
1.
Preparation of concrete technical proposals, based on the updating of the 
functional classification of roads in the National Road Network submitted to the 
Ministry by DNER on May 31, 1989 and the new tax system established by the Borrower's 
Constitution, in order to achieve the transference of responsibilities in road 
management and rehabilitation to be negotiated under 2 below. To be completed by not 
later than ninety days after the date of this Agreement.
2.
Submission to the Borrower's Congress, on or before December 31, 1991, of the 
legislation required to be enacted in respect of the carrying out of Part  A.2 (a) of 
the Project, and negotiation with the States to achieve preliminary agreement on or 
before December 31, 1991 on the newly acquired State Agencies' responsibilities 
pursuant to the transference referred to under paragraph 1 above and the reformulation 
of the National Roads Network and of the  functional classification thereunder. The 
agreement with the States will be  subject to and formalized by, the enactment of the 
corresponding legislation by the Borrower's Congress.
3.
Training of the staff involved will take place throughout the entire period 
referred to above and will continue during the remainder of the period of Project 
execution.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1996
through October 15, 2005
15,500,000
 
______________________________
Page  16
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid  shall be the 
percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) 
applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Contracts for works and goods shall be grouped, to the extent possible, so as to 
form bidding packages estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $7,500,000 and 
$250,000, respectively.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to  establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following  methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
Page  17
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection  with the importation, and 
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to 
the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each 
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the  C.I.F. bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the C.I.F. 
bid price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount  of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for: (a) civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $7,500,000 or 
less; and (b) subject to the provision of paragraph 2 below, goods estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $250,000, may be awarded under competitive bidding 
procedures advertised only in Brazil to the extent that the procedures under which any 
such contract has been awarded are satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, up to 
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be awarded to the 
lowest evaluated quotation following evaluation and comparison of quotations furnished 
by at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and civil works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of more than $100,000 and 7,500,000,  respectively, and (ii) 
contracts for civil works awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that should the first 2 sets of bidding documents for 
contracts under (ii) above and award recommendations thereon be satisfactory to the 
Bank, the provisions of this paragraph shall, unless otherwise determined by the Bank, 
cease to govern contracts awarded pursuant to (ii) above. Where payments for such 
contract  are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished 
Page  18
to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines, except Part D of the Project for which no adjustments are allowed.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the execution of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III.
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts: CESA and FESA
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the corresponding Eligible 
Category in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of, and Schedule 1 to, this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$20,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the CESA  and the 
FESA ($20,000,000 equivalent into CESA and $500,000 equivalent into FESA, 
respectively) pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the CESA and FESA, as 
the case may be, shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and of  this Schedule. The 
Central Bank, or the Account Bank, as the case may be, shall authorize withdrawals 
from the CESA or the FESA, as the case may be, on the basis of evidence that the Bank 
shall have reasonably determined. For each such withdrawal so authorized, the Central 
Bank, or the Account Bank, as the  case may be, shall debit or cause to be debited, 
the CESA or the FESA, as  appropriate, with the dollar equivalent of the amount of the 
Eligible Expenditures in question in cruzeiros, in the case of the CESA, or the actual 
dollar amount, or the dollar equivalent of the Eligible Expenditures in currencies 
other than dollars or cruzeiros, in the case of the FESA.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the CESA and the 
FESA have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the CESA or the FESA shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the corresponding amount of the Authorized Allocation, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the corresponding amount of the  Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit in the CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amount 
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the CESA or FESA, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the CESA or FESA at such 
intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
 
Page  19
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the CESA or FESA, as 
the case may be, such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been made out of 
the CESA or 
FESA, as the case may be, for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under  the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,  as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the CESA or the FESA, as the case 
may be, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that  such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into either the CESA or the FESA:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the aggregate 
of Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the corresponding Eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be  made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the CESA or the FESA, as the 
case may be, as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
either the CESA or the  FESA: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the CESA or the FESA, as the case may be, (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the CESA or the FESA, as the case 
may be, shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time, that any amount 
outstanding in either the CESA or the FESA will not be required to cover further 
payments for the corresponding Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower  shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the CESA or the FESA.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of  this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  20
