Report No. PIC2790
Project Name                      Malawi-Fiscal Restructuring and...
Deregulation Program
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Finance
Project ID                        MWPA1648
Implementation Agency             Government of Malawi
Dr. Ngalande
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry Of Finance
Lilongwe, Malawi
Phone: 265-782-199
Fax: 265-781-679
Projected Appraisal Date          November 13 - December 3, 1995
Projected Board Date              March 22, 1996
Document Contact Address          Public Information Center
Room J 1-047
701 18th Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433, U.S.A.
Telephone No. 202-458-5454
Fax No. 202-522-1500
Background
1.   This will be the first structural reform program designed and
implemented by the new Government of Malawi (GOM). The operation (i) is
anchored in the GOM+s medium-term strategy as reflected in the 6th
Policy Framework Paper (PFP, issued October 10, 1995) and the
forthcoming Letter of Development Policies; and (ii) is a core component
of the World Bank Group±s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), to be
presented to the Board in conjunction with the proposed operation.
2.   The program is designed to support a critical new phase in Malawi's
emerging macroeconomic reform program, aimed at the dual strategy of
ensuring the macroeconomic essentials to allow growth, and a fundamental
restructuring of programs that address the country±s pervasive poverty.
The cornerstone of this phase of the program is a far-ranging overhaul
of public expenditure planning and management, with a view to raising
allocations in pro-poor expenditure categories while reducing the
absolute level of public spending. In addition, the proposed program
supports policy measures that will allow the poor to participate in the
full range of economic activities.
Objectives and Policies supported by the Program
3.   Two constraints have consistently been identified in stakeholder
meetings, our dialogue with the GOM, and our analytical work as most
binding for poverty alleviation and for achieving Malawi+s economic of
4.59 medium-term real growth, single digit inflation, and a viable
external balance:
+    Anti-poor bias and low quality of social sector expenditures



The draft Poverty Profile shows that public expenditures on social
services such as education and health have been consistently higher
in Malawi (US$58 per capita in 1993) compared to countries with
similar low GDP per capita (US$41 per capita). In particular,
health spending was aost double that in comparator countries, and
more than double that of neighboring countries in the region.
These aggregate numbers, however, are misleading because they
conceal a highly unequal subsectoral composition of social
spending; proportional allocations to primary level services, which
is the level most likely to be needed by the poor, is among the
lowest in Malawi. In 1990/91, the poorest income quintile received
only 109 of all public education spending, while the share going to
the richest income quintile was 38%. Although the removal of all
primary school fees in 1994/95 has substantially reduced this
inequality (to 16% and %, respectively) additional restructuring is
needed to reach a larger share of the population.
+    Restrictions and regulations that prevent the poor from
participating in the full range of economic activities
Both the Agricultural Sector Memorandum and the Poverty Profile
concluded that deregulation of smallholder marketing and production
(especially profitable cash crops like burley tobacco) will be
critical for unleashing the economic potential of rural areas.
Through forward and backward linkages, incremental smallholder
income has a multiplier effect of approximately 1.5 which makes the
agricultural sector -- specifically smallholder production -- an
engine of broad-based growth.
4.   To assist Malawi in attaining its economic objectives and succeed
in alleviating the country±s pervasive poverty problem the proposed
operation focuses on two broad policy areas:.
+    Fiscal restructuring aims to prioritize, protect, and where
necessary expand inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral allocations to
the social sectors on a sustainable basis while staying within
the overall fiscal framework now being monitored under the IMF+s
ESAF program. The operation supports development of a Medium-
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), comprehensive civil service
reform, and tax and tariff reform.
+    Deregulation will accelerate the consolidation of structural
measures already initiated by the GOM under previous adjustment
operations. This includes complete removal of remaining pricing
and marketing constraints on smallholder agriculture, and removal
of the binding constraints to broad-based private sector entry
and development.
Implementation
5.   The proposed program represents the logical continuation of IDA
involvement in Malawi's adjustment to a difficult external
environment; it supports several planks of a comprehensive and medium-
term to long-term reform program that is anchored in the 6th PFP.
Many policy measures on this agenda and their sequencing has been
identified and are implemented now (for instance, education sector
policy, agricultural pricing, fiscal stabilization). In other areas
- 2-



credible processes have been launched and we expect specific
benchmarks at the time of Negotiations (such as expenditure reform,
civil service reform, and privatization). Lastly, there is a range of
policy issues where GOM has expressed its commitment to reform, but
where further analytical work needs to be carried out before specific
measures are identified. In those areas we are actively engaged in
providing guidance and advice to the GOM and expect to narrow down the
scope and timing of specific measures within the next 12 to 18 months
(for instance, land policy reform, drought proofing).
6.   Critical components of the operation -- such as the civil service
census, the privatization strategy, the measures under the Cross
Border Initiative, and the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework were
prepared by Government.    The GOM has firmly demonstrated its
commitment to policy reforms, economic growth, and poverty alleviation
and has unequivocally stated its commitment to involving broad
segments of civil society in the planning and implementation of its
development programs. The proposed Credit will provide funds under a
consultant category to carry out stakeholder meetings to gauge the
impact of policy measures on vulnerable groups and support a
communications strategy for the proposed measures. This is in
continuance of the close collaboration and participation established
on the operational level during the preparatory steps leading up to
appraisal of the program, including the completion of a manufacturing
sector survey and the subsequent joint Government/Private Sector
workshop to discuss appropriate policy changes. Joint GOM/Bank
meetings with the private sector and NGOs are planned during appraisal
to solicit feedback on the envisaged policy measures.
Costs and Financing
7.   A total of US$200 million is expected to be provided under the
proposed Credit. This amount would comprise US$100 million equivalent
from IDA and US$100 million equivalent from co-financing under the
Special Program of Assistance from the Governments of Japan and
Germany. Proceeds from the proposed Credit will (i) help fill
Malawi+s projected external financing gap through FY96; (ii) provide
budgetary support for critical expenditures in the social sectors and
a substantial net repayment to the domestic banking system; and (iii)
smooth consumption to lessen the costs of stabilization and prevent
undue hardship to the poor.
8.   Except for consultancy services, the proposed Credit would be
disbursed as follows: an initial tranche of US$70 million would be
made available upon Credit effectiveness and the remaining amount of
US$30 million would be disbursed upon meeting the conditions related
to civil service reforms. US$1.5 million would be available for
consultancy services in connection with implementation of agricultural
pricing and marketing, tax and tariff reform, and introduction of a
VAT and studying the feasibility and desirability of a National
Revenue Authority.
Contact Point:         Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
- 3-



Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



