Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:     21549
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
(Credit 2853-MAI)
December 21, 2000
Macroeconomics 1
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December, 2000)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.0 = MK 80.0
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 to June 30
(as of July 1998)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
I foot (ft) = 0.305 meters (m)
I mile (mi) = 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2) = 2.590 square kilometers (kM2)
I ton (t) = 0.907 metric tons (m ton)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADMARC    =   Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
BMR          =   Budget Management Review
CAS          =   Country Assistance Strategy
EDI          =   Economic Development Institute
EPZ          =   Export Processing Zones
ESAF         =   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FRDP         =   Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation Program
IB           =   Intermediate Buyers
ICR          =   Implementation Completion Report
IDA          =   International Development Association
IMF          =   International Monetary Fund
MDC          =   Malawi Development Corporation
MK           =   Malawi Kwacha
MOF          =   Ministry of Finance
MOP          =   Memorandum of the President
MTEF         =   Medium Term Expenditure Framework
PFP          =   Policy Framework Paper
SGR          =   Strategic Grain Reserve
TA           =   Technical Assistance
TEP          =   Temporary Employment Permit
VAT          =   Value Added Tax
Vice President:               Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:             Mr. Darius Mans
Sector Manager:               Mr. Philippe Le Houerou
Task Leader:                  Mr. Sudhir Chitale



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2853-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ..........................................................................1I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................................I
INTRODUCTION  ................................................................ ..........                                                                                        I
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................................................I
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ...........................................................................1
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ........................................... III
MAIN REPORT ..........................................................................1I
STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................................................I
ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES ..........................................................................3
MAJOR  FACTORS  AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT .............................                                                   .............................................4
PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY  ..........................................................................4
BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................................................5
BORROWER  PERFORMANCE  ...........................................................................6
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...........................................................................6
PROMOTING DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURAL MARKETS ......................................................................  10
FUTURE  OPERATIONS .......................................................................... 13
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..........................................................................                                                                                13
APPENDIX: BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT ..........................................................................                                                                         15
STATISTICAL ANNEX ..........................................................................                                                                                       19
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .                                               .......................................................................... 9
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .............................................................................. 20
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ........................................................................                                                                           21
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$ THOUSANDS) ........... 22
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION: MACROECONOMIC ..............                                                                            ..................... 22
TABLE  6:  KEY  INDICATORS  FOR  PROJECT  OPERATION: STRUCTURAL  .........................                                                         ............................ 23
TABLE  7:  STUDIES  INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT  .......................                                              ................................................. 24
TABLE  8:  IDA   FINANCED  PROJECT  COSTS  .........................                                               ............................................... 25
TABLE  9:  PROJECT  FINANCING                                              ........................................................................ 25
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ........................................................................ 26
TABLE  11:  BANK  RESOURCES:  STAFF  INPUTS  .....................................                                                 ................................... 27
TABLE  12:  BANK  RESOURCES:  MISSIONS .................................................                                               ................................ 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
CREDIT NO. 28530-MAI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fiscal Restructuring
and Deregulation project (FRDP) in Malawi, for which credit in the amount SDR 73.2
million including IDA reflows equivalent to SDR 2.9 million was approved on April 30
1996 and made effective May 24, 1996. The project provided SDR 71.9 million to
support economic reform and adjustment policies. An initial tranche of SDR 50.9 million
was released on effectiveness and fully disbursed by June 1996; a second tranche of SDR
21 million was released on September 15, 1997. The project also provided a component
of SDR 1.3 million for technical assistance. The credit was supplemented by a credit of
Danish Guilders equivalent to US$ 30.4 million, a credit from the OECF (Japan)
equivalent to US$ 48.0 million, a KfW credit equivalent to US$ 6.3 million and three
supplemental IDA Reflows amounting to SDR 2.9 million.
The ICR was prepared by David G. Greene, Consultant, and Sudhir Chitale,
Senior Economist, and reviewed by the Country Director. The Borrower provided
comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR begun during the Bank's completion mission of April-
May 2000. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower's contribution to the
preparation is included.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
CREDIT NO. 2853-MAI
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The FRDP supported the first economic reform program designed and
implemented by the democratically elected Government of Malawi that came to office in
May 1994. FRDP was designed to assist the Government's efforts at fiscal restructuring
and deregulation in order to promote broad-based development, sustained growth and
alleviation of poverty. It focused on fiscal restructuring to prioritize, protect, and, where
necessary, expand pro-poor budgetary allocations, within the fiscal framework of an IMP
program. It also supported measures to broaden economic growth by deregulating and
liberalizing product and factor markets, including removal of pricing and marketing
constraints on smallholder agriculture.
Project Objectives
2.    The operation provided balance of payments and budgetary support and technical
assistance to undergird and encourage policy reform and institutional strengthening. The
policy framework for fiscal restructuring included expenditure prioritization,
improvements in the structure of taxation, rationalization and privatization of government
functions, streamlining of the civil service and strengthening of expenditure monitoring
and control systems. Deregulation policies were aimed at promoting broader based
private sector development. They included agricultural policies to promote smallholder
development by increasing access to cash crops (especially burley tobacco), increasing
access to inputs (by liberalizing seed and fertilizer marketing), improving access to
markets (by eliminating the state agricultural marketing company's maize purchase
monopoly and moving toward market based pricing), and improving access to economic
transport (by removing restrictions on imports of used equipment). Nonagricultural
development was to be stimulated through privatization of state owned enterprises,
through encouragement of investment by improving access to temporary employment
permits, through providing increased access to industrial sites, and through repealing
discriminatory legislation against Asians.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Performance of both the Bank and the Government was generally satisfactory.
The Bank's performance in identifying, appraising and assisting in implementation of the



ii
project was satisfactory. The Bank economic and sector work was extensive and used
effectively. The Bank maintained a close and continuous dialogue with the Government
and was responsive to its concerns. It encouraged broad consultation with civil society
and stakeholders and maintained close relations with the IMF and the donor community.
The Government implemented the project to the greatest extent permitted by its technical
and managerial capacity and its sense of social and political support for the program. It
has maintained its commitment to both the objectives and instruments of policy reform.
However, both the Government and the Bank underestimated the complexity of the
program and possible sources of opposition and therefore overestimated the
Government's capacity to carry out the reforms.
4.    The performance of the Malawian economy improved significantly during 1995-
97, when improvements in macroeconomic management and structural reforms led to
reduced inflation and contributed to higher GDP growth. However, progress on
macroeconomic stabilization proved difficult to sustain, as problems in controlling
government expenditures recurred. As a result, inflation has not been definitively
brought under control. Fiscal management weakened beginning in 1997, inflation
accelerated, and GDP growth slowed to below 4% per annum as a result of high real
interest rates and unstable effective exchange rates.
5.    The implementation of structural reforms presents a mixed picture. On the
positive side, landmark actions such as the abolition of limitations on smallholder
production of burley tobacco' marked a definitive shift in economic and social policy to
favor the poor, improving income distribution and setting the stage for future growth.
The liberalization of burley tobacco production and trade also had an important impact on
the growth of non-agricultural activity and services in rural areas. Significant
improvements have been made in the tax and tariff regime and in export incentives, but
their effects will probably not be seen until the improvements in the macroeconomic
situation can be sustained. The privatization program is supported by a privatization law,
passed in 1996, that guarantees transparency and limits political interference; the program
is being administered competently and is moving ahead at a moderate pace. Some of the
second order problems of the private sector, temporary employment permits and
availability of land for industry have been resolved.
6.    Less progress was made on institutionalization of the medium term expenditure
framework (MTEF) as a tool for prioritizing expenditures, largely on account of
"ownership" issues and weaknesses in the underlying budgetary processes. Shares of
recurrent expenditures budgeted for pro-poor outlays, especially health and education,
were increased, but the impact was entirely eroded by inflation and increases in the client
base. Progress of civil service reform has been marginal. Although the number of
Ministries has been reduced and some government services have been outsourced, the
size and functions of the civil service remain basically unchanged and the problem of
salary compression has not been resolved. Agricultural markets have been liberalized,
but progress in addressing land tenure issues has been negligible, partly due to delays in
The elimination of fees at the primary schooling level also demonstrated this new orientation. This had been done in
1994, however, prior to the discussions over the structural adjustment operation.



iii
production of key reports by Government, and movement toward changing the maize
pricing regime and privatizing ADMARC seems to be losing its momentum.
Summary of Findings, future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
7.    Lessons learned include:
i.    The project demonstrates once again the synergy between macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reforms. Reaping the full benefits of structural
reform depends heavily on fiscal discipline and the avoidance of
inflationary pressures.
ii.    Careful and extensive preparation, including a strong background of
economic and sector work, extensive collaboration with government,
consultation with stakeholders and coordination with other suppliers of
external assistance is a necessary but not sufficient condition for execution
of complex adjustment. In the final analysis it is the government that must
implement the program.
iii.   Fiscal restructuring and civil service reform cannot be a bottom-up
exercise but should begin with a fundamental reconsideration of the role
of government undertaken at the political level. Restructuring of the
government, the civil service and the budget must have political leadership
and be based on decisions about the future role of the public sector.
iv.   Attempting to introduce a new system of expenditure prioritization
(MTEF) and budget allocation by superimposing it on an existing,
inadequate budgeting system is not likely to be successful.
v.   Inclusion of technical assistance components in adjustment operations
invariably results in closing well after disbursement of performance-
related tranches, and delays preparation of ICRs, in this case by more than
two years. This reduces the possible influence of the ICR on the shaping
of future operations. This may be remedied by making the technical
assistance component a separate credit, as was done with the subsequent
operation, the FRDP II.
8.    Because most of the policy actions supported by the FRDP had already been
implemented by Board presentation, supervision was focused on identification of policy
measures that could be supported under a follow-on, quick-disbursing operation to
include medium-term measures for expenditure rationalization and control, civil service
reform, land policy, maize pricing policy, and privatization. The follow on operation,
FRDP II, approved in December 1998, was a similar omnibus adjustment credit,
continuing supporting the same mechanisms to improve the quality and management of
public expenditures and restructure Government functions and the civil service. It
complemented FRDP by increasing the focus on accelerating privatization, including
telecommunications and electric power and on financial sector reform.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEREGULATION PROGRAM
CREDIT NO. 2853-MAI
Main Report
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The FRDP supported the first economic reform program designed and
implemented by the new Government that came to office in May 1994 through multiparty
elections, following 30 years of single-party rule. That Government, unlike its
predecessor, was and remains committed to policy changes designed to promote broad-
based development and alleviation of poverty. The operation supported the new
Government's medium-term strategy by providing balance of payments and budgetary
support and technical assistance to undergird and encourage the process of policy reform
and institutional strengthening. A core component of the CAS presented to the Board in
conjunction with the FRDP operation, it focused on fiscal restructuring to prioritize,
protect, and, where necessary, expand budgetary allocations to the social sectors targeted
to benefit the poor, such as primary education and primary health care, within the fiscal
framework of the ivIF's ESAF program. It also supported measures to broaden economic
growth by deregulating and liberalizing product and factor markets, including removal of
pricing and marketing constraints on smallholder agriculture. The Government's
program was also supported by a three-year ESAF approved by the IMP's Board on
October 18, 1995.
2.    Before the present Government took office, Malawi had a less than satisfactory
record of structural adjustment and poverty alleviation. During the 1980s and the first
half of the 1990s, the Government launched several stabilization/adjustment programs.
These were supported by six IDA adjustment credits and two supplemental credits. The
previous Government was not, however, fully committed to liberalizing agriculture,
promoting broad-based private sector development, or expanding services to the poor.
Sustained growth thus remained elusive and poverty continued to be widespread,
affecting half the population, and pervasive among smallholder farmers. The country's
economic base remained narrow and vulnerable to external shocks and the income
distribution remained highly skewed (the Gini coefficient for household expenditure,
0.62, was among the most unequal in the world). The formal sector continued to be
dominated by a few public and private conglomerates, such as ADMARC, Malawi
Development Corporation (MDC) and Press Holdings. The latter, controlled by ex-
President Banda, accounted for over half of Malawi's small formal sector.



2
3.    The stabilization components of past adjustment programs were executed more
effectively than structural reform. However, macroeconomic stability continued to be
upset by external shocks and the costs of successive stabilization programs were largely
borne by the poorest segments of the population, as expenditure cuts contributed to the
imbalance between spending on primary social services, which can benefit the poor, and
tertiary level social expenditures, which benefited a small elite.
4.    The political change in Malawi in 1994 improved the prospects for genuine
structural reform. However, when the new Government took office, it faced a large and
complex agenda of policy reforms and institutional changes and an economy that was
deteriorating because of external shocks and poor economic management. Nevertheless,
the platform of the new Government had focused on the poverty issue and within weeks
of the 1994 elections, it demonstrated its commitment to pro-poor policy reform by acting
on a campaign promise to eliminate primary school fees. The Government also began to
bring the economic situation under control. It introduced a cash budget, and floated the
exchange rate. The fiscal deficit (before grants) was reduced from about 42% of GDP in
FY 1994/95 to 9% in FY 1996/97. Reflecting improved macroeconomic management,
the IMF approved an ESAF arrangement in October 1995 and the Bank moved ahead
with preparation of FRDP.
5.    The FRDP was designed to assist the Government's efforts at fiscal restructuring
and deregulation. Major changes were needed in fiscal management to enable
prioritization of budgetary outlays to permit increased expenditures for programs likely to
benefit the poor, including primary education and health care, within the context of a
fiscally sound macroeconomic framework. Fiscal restructuring was broadly defined to
include expenditure prioritization, improving the structure of taxation, rationalizing and
privatizing government functions, streamlining the civil service and strengthening
expenditure monitoring and control systems. Deregulation policies were intended to
promote broader based private sector development. Agricultural policies were aimed
specifically at promoting smallholder development by increasing access to cash crops
(especially burley tobacco), increasing access to inputs (by liberalizing seed and fertilizer
marketing), improving access to markets (by eliminating ADMARC's maize purchase
monopoly and moving toward market based maize pricing), and improving access to
economic transport (by removing restrictions on imports of used equipment).
Nonagricultural development was to be stimulated through a program of privatization of
state owned enterprises, encouragement of investment by improving access to temporary
employment permits, providing increased access to land for industrial sites, and removing
discriminatory legislation against Asians.
6.    The complexity of the operation is evidenced by the fact that it encompassed 42
policy actions (as recorded in the Memorandum of the President, Annex E: Matrix of
Policy Actions). All but one of these was accomplished before Board presentation. The
key actions taken before effectiveness involved ending restrictions on smallholder
production of burley tobacco (the most important cash crop), improving budgetary
performance by introducing a cash budget, introducing a medium term expenditure
framework (MTEF) to prioritize outlays, retrenching 20,000 temporary government
workers to permit hiring of additional teachers, improvements in the tariff structure and



3
export incentives, and the adoption of a privatization bill. Many of the other actions,
however, involved processes (e.g. preparation of terms of reference, commissioning
reports, reviews, development of plans, and appointment of committees and
commissions), rather than actions with meaningful near-term impacts.
7.   In recognition of government commitment and the measures taken before Board
presentation, an initial tranche of US$ 74.4 million was disbursed on effectiveness in
May 1996. Disbursement of a second tranche of US$ 30 million was conditioned on
continued satisfactory implementation and deepening of the adjustment program,
continuation of satisfactory macroeconomic policies and agreement on and beginning
implementation of a plan for comprehensive civil service reform. It was expected to
disburse about six months after the initial tranche, but actually disbursed in August 1997,
after a Board waiver of some conditions related to civil service reform.
Achievement of Objectives
8.   Implementation of the program supported by FRDP presents a mixed, but on
balance satisfactory picture. The performance of the Malawian economy improved
significantly during 1995-97, as improvements in macroeconomic management, coupled
with structural reforms, led to reduced inflation and contributed to higher GDP growth.
However progress on macroeconomic stabilization proved difficult to sustain, as
problems in controlling government expenditures recurred. Fiscal management
weakened beginning in 1997, inflation accelerated, and GDP growth slowed to below 4%
per annum partly as a result of high real interest rates and unstable effective exchange
rates.
9.    Implementation of structural adjustment policies also presents a mixed picture.
On the positive side, the abolition of the limitations on smallholder production of burley
tobacco was a landmark action, important in improving income distribution, and also
marking a shift in economic and social policy to favor the poor. The liberalization of
burley tobacco production and trade also had an important impact on the growth of non-
agricultural activity and services in rural areas. Significant improvements were made in
the tax and tariff regime and in export incentives, but their positive effects will probably
not be evident until the improvements in the macroeconomic situation can be sustained.
The privatization program is supported by a privatization law, passed in 1996, that
guarantees transparency and limits political interference; the program is being
administered competently and is moving ahead at a moderate pace. Some of the second
order problems of the private sector, temporary employment permits and availability of
land for industry have been resolved.
10.   Slower progress has been made in institutionalization of the MTEF as a tool for
prioritizing expenditures, largely because of "ownership" issues and weaknesses in the
underlying budgetary processes. Shares of recurrent expenditures budgeted for pro-poor
outlays, especially health and education, have been increased, but the gains have been
eroded by inflation and increases in the client base. This approach has proven not to be
successful in palliating the fundamental problems in these key sectors. Progress of civil
service reform has been marginal: although the number of Ministries has been reduced



4
and some government services have been outsourced, the size and functions of the civil
service remain basically unchanged and the problem of salary compression has not been
resolved. Agricultural markets have been liberalized, but progress in addressing land
tenure issues has been negligible, partly due to delays in production of key reports by
government, and movement toward changing the maize pricing regime and privatizing
ADMARC seems to be losing its momentum.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   The setting for adjustment lending in Malawi is complicated by the fact that the
country is extremely aid dependent. External assistance was equivalent to about 15.3%
of GDP in FY 98/99 (net foreign borrowing, 8.9% and grants 6.4% of GDP) and financed
52.5% of the budget in that year (85% of the development budget). Delays in
disbursements therefore can have strong negative repercussions for meeting
macroeconomic targets and carrying out vital programs. The Government and the Bank
are both aware of this. This can lead to the Government agreeing to take actions it has not
thoroughly considered and to the Bank to rushing development of the adjustment
program, adding conditions to the policy mix and compromising on some less than
satisfactory performance to ensure the flow of disbursements. In addition, the scope and
complexity of the FRDP program proved to be beyond the Government's technical and
managerial expertise and its weak institutional structure.
Project Sustainability
12.   There are no indications that the Government has reconsidered its commitment to
the types of reform supported by FRDP. The issue is whether the pace and scope of
reform and the lending instrument are appropriate and consistent with Malawi's capacity.
Although some important actions were taken in connection with the project, in many
areas these represented initial steps that required intense follow up activities and/or
further action. It is clear that the reform agenda is too broad relative to implementation
capacity and that the scope and sequencing of reform should be reconsidered. It is also
clear that Malawi will continue to need quick disbursing assistance for some time, but
that omnibus adjustment operations may not be the best way to deliver it. Consideration
could be given to the trade-offs involved: sector-based reforms might be better promoted
by sector specific operations, but on the other hand omnibus operations led by the
Ministry of Finance permit a degree of coordination and accountability, thereby helping
to accelerate the execution of sector-level reforms.
13.   Maintaining macroeconomic stability is the key element to sustaining the
momentum of reform. Large fiscal deficits, high rates of inflation and low GDP growth
can erode the social and political support for reform. However, the macroeconomic
situation remains fragile. Despite increasingly tight budgetary controls, deficits have
recurred periodically. Inflation continues to be a severe problem, and real and nominal
interest rates continue high and volatile.



5
Bank Performance
14.   The Bank's performance in developing and assisting in implementation of the
program was satisfactory. It used economic and sector work effectively, maintained a
close and continuous dialogue with the Government and was responsive to its concerns,
encouraged broad consultation with civil society and stakeholders and maintained close
relations with the IMF and the donor community.
15.   The Bank's preparation activities involved civil society in policy planning and
implementation. Meetings between policymakers and representatives of the private
sector helped increase and broaden understanding of and appreciation of the need for
prudent macroeconomic management. The operation took into account the findings of
the 1995 Borrower Feedback Survey, which highlighted the need to ensure smallholder
access to the full range of economic activities, and to target expenditures for primary
social services. Two Bank EDI missions visited Malawi to assist the Government in
establishing a systematic communications strategy.
16.   The programs of the Bank and IMF in Malawi were well coordinated. Bank
proposals on trade and taxation policy, privatization, civil service reforms, investment
incentives, expenditure targets were consistent with the fiscal targets under IMF
supported programs, and the IMFs structural policy benchmarks were developed in
consultation with the Bank. Joint Bank/IMF missions prepared the Sixth PFP and
reviewed macroeconomic developments in early March 1996, when the IMF reached
understanding with the authorities on a program for 1996/97.
17.   The FRDP benefited from substantial economic and sector work. The 1994
Agricultural Sector Memorandum and Government's Agricultural Strategy Paper
identified options for promoting broad-based agricultural growth. Background papers of
1993 on the transport sector and a manufacturing sector survey provided insights into
policy and institutional constraints to private sector development. Analyses carried out
jointly by IDA and the Government provided the basis for recommendations on tax and
tariff policy reforms. The 1995 Budget Management Review (BMR) provided a basis for
expenditure control measures and modifications of the budget making process. Civil
service pay issues were discussed in the 1994 Pay and Employment Study. The Poverty
Profile of 1995 highlighted the dimensions and main variables of poverty in Malawi and
established the basis for reforms in land policy and deregulation of agricultural markets
and domestic transport.
18.   The Initiating Memoranda and the Pre-appraisal and Appraisal Aide Memoirs
provided detailed justifications and explanations of the policies to supported by the
operation and step by step recommendations on the nature and sequencing of actions to
be undertaken under the FRDP. Supervision was almost continuous and well
documented.



6
Borrower Performance
19.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory, given its managerial and technical
constraints. Although some aspects of the FRDP program and its commitment to it had
not been carefully thought through, probably because the pressing need to obtain external
assistance, the Government exercised its best efforts to implement the program. Primary
school fees were removed in 1994, and there was a period of accelerated reform in 1995-
96 highlighted by significant progress in macroeconomic stabilization and the elimination
of constraints on production and input supply. However, the pace of reform slowed in
1997, as the Government began to confront the more technically and politically complex
problems of streamlining of government, reform of the civil service, improvement in
expenditure management, reform of maize pricing and marketing, and privatization.
20.   The Government deserves high marks for its prompt action in ending restrictions
on smallholder production of burley tobacco, as this has significant positive equity
implications and long-term benefits.
Assessment of Outcome
21.   Both the Government and the Bank overestimated the Government's capacity to
carry out the reforms and underestimated their complexity. Although the operation was
justified by the Government's taking numerous steps before appraisal and Board
presentation, many of these involved process (e.g. studies, commissioning consultants'
reports, reviews and appointment of committees and commissions), rather than actions
with meaningful near term effects. The second tranche release conditions also included a
number of process activities. The timing of such processes is difficult to predict,
especially when they involve technical assistance and extensive stakeholder involvement
and consensus building and require political decisions. Some decisions that were taken
proved politically or technically difficult to implement. As a result, despite the best
efforts of the Bank and Malawi's implementing agency, progress in macroeconomic
policy and public expenditure prioritization was not as much as had been expected, and
progress in some key areas -- civil service reform, maize pricing and marketing and land
policy -- has been limited.
22.   Macroeconomic Stabilization and Growth: The Government has found
maintenance of macroeconomic stability a series of measures designed to tighten
budgetary management. Initial implementation of stabilization measures, especially the
adoption of a cash budget, resulted in a rapid reduction in the fiscal deficit from 28% of
GDP (excluding grants) in 1994/95 to about 8 % in 1996/97. As a result, the 12-month
rate of inflation declined from 83% at the end of 1995 to under 7% at end-1996, the
three-month T-bill rate fell from over 50% to about 15%, and foreign exchange reserves
rebounded to 3.5 months of imports by the end of 1966. Reflecting the effects
stabilization and improved climatic conditions for agriculture, GDP growth rebounded to
12% over 1995-96. In 1997, however, the Government's grip on expenditures slipped
and the macroeconomic program went seriously off track. The budget deficit climbed to
about 11.5% of GDP 1997/98. The rising deficit led to a re-acceleration of inflation to
20% by the end of the fiscal year. The IMF ESAF program was put in abeyance and a



7
six-month staff monitored program was put in place as the government began to take
corrective action toward the end of 1997. (A third annual arrangement under the ESAF
was approved in December 1998).
23.   Although progress was again made in reducing the fiscal deficit, damage could
not be completely avoided. Inflation climbed to 15% by the end of 1997 and about 50%
at the end of 1998. The three-month T-bill rate rose to the 40-50% range. The effect on
high real interest rates and a cycle of depreciation and appreciation of the real effective
exchange rate on economic activity has been negative: manufacturing activity is in the
doldrums and private fixed investment continues in the range of 2.5% of GDP.
Manufacturers are reportedly shifting to trading activities. GDP growth had varied from
year to year reflecting the effects of climatic conditions on agriculture, but over the last
two years has been below the 4.5% rate targeted by the adjustment operations.
24.   Reforming Taxes and Tariffs: A comprehensive reform of taxes and surtaxes
was launched in 1996/97 with the aim of reducing anti-export bias in the tariff regime,
increasing external competitiveness, and gradually shifting the revenue function from
tariffs to a VAT. The reform has resulted in a simplification of the tariff structure,
reducing the number of tariff categories to four and reducing the maximum tariff in steps
to 25% on final goods and to zero or 5% for most intermediate and capital goods. As a
result the weighted average tariff declined from 19% to 14%. The surtax was to be
transformed into a VAT. It has been made uniform across goods and rates on items taxed
below the standard rate of 20% were increased. The process of converting the surtax to a
real VAT is still underway as the credit mechanism of the surtax has yet to be extended to
the retail level.
25.  In December 1995, legislation was enacted for establishment of Export
Processing Zones (EPZ). The Act covers all sectors and permits establishment of factory
sites and horticulture farms as EPZs. In February 1996 export duty drawback regulations
were simplified and streamlined and the Ministry expanded the initial refund from 75%
to 100% of duty paid. A revolving fund was set up with the Customs and Excise
Department, which is to effect refund payments within five working days. Nevertheless,
export incentives have been clouded by erratic movements of the effective exchange rates
resulting from variation in the pace of inflation and changes in the nominal exchange
rate. The positive effects of these improvements will not be felt until the macroeconomic
situation stabilizes. Although an embryonic ready made garments export industry has
recently emerged, employing around 7000 workers in peak periods, in the aggregate there
has not been significant export diversification: the share of non-traditional exports in total
exports rose from 12.1% in 1994 to 12.6% in 1999. Export performance continues to be
dominated by variations in tobacco production and prices.
26.   Reforming the Civil Service: The Government embarked on a civil service
reform in 1995 to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public service delivery.
The major actions were: (i) hiring 20,000 new (untrained) primary school teachers,
offsetting this by dismissing 20,000 temporary employees; (ii) undertaking a census of
the civil service; (iii) freezing new recruitment, unless specific high level clearance is
granted; (iv) preparing a draft plan for civil service reform; and (v) establishing a Public



8
Service Change Management Unit led by manager from the private sector. Since there
were overlaps between ministries, the number of ministries was reduced from 27 to 24 to
ultimately to 19. A job evaluation study was undertaken in 1998. The common services
cadre was abolished enabling better accountability and management in professional
services. However, a series of functional reviews of 16 ministries undertaken between
1997 and 1999 did not indicate that there was overstaffing in the civil service and,
therefore, no further actions have been taken on streamlining. The salary decompression
to be financed by savings from reduction of the number of civil servants has not occurred.
27.   Implementation of key parts of civil service reform was to trigger the release of
the Second Tranche of the FRDP. The Government was to have: stopped paying civil
servants not listed on the civil service census file; begun eliminating or merging
duplicating and overlapping government functions; started to outsource, privatize, or
eliminate functions some generic low level services, reduce the number of industrial
workers and absorbed the rest into the civil service; and started to increase the authority
of line managers to deploy, retaining and evaluate performance of common services staff.
28.   Most of the conditions for the release of the second tranche were met. A job
evaluation exercise was initiated to provide the basis for civil service salary restructuring
to be carried out over the next 18 months. A plan acceptable to IDA for comprehensive
reform to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the civil service was prepared
specifying the procedures, timing and targets of reform over the next two years and
showing that implementation had begun. Evidence was presented to IDA that the civil
service payroll conformed to the civil service census file and that payment of individuals
not listed in the file had ceased. A Payroll Audit Unit had been established for
continuous surveillance. A staffing plan for the health and education sectors was adopted
that provided for training teachers to attain a student teacher ration of 60:1 in primary
schools and ensuring that staff all health clinics include at least one general nurse and one
maternity nurse. A study of civil service remuneration was completed with the assistance
of Price Waterhouse. However, a waiver was granted respecting the condition that
required the Government to eliminate, privatize or contract out at least four of the
services or functions identified in a review of the public sector which was under way in
1996. The waiver was granted on the grounds that the Government was committed to
carrying out this task but that there had been delays on account of inadequate private
sector interest.
29.   Prioritizing Expenditures using the MTEF: FRDP supported the adoption and
expanded utilization of a medium term expenditure framework (MNEF) as a tool for
prioritizing Govemment outlays. The MTEF was designed to ensure that the expansion
of social services did not compromise reduction of the fiscal deficit. The MTEF was
introduced in stages. It was first tested for the high priority Ministries of Health,
Education, Public Works and Agriculture in 1995/96. In FY97/98 the MTEF was
extended to cover all ministries. Partly as a result of use of the MTEF the shares of the
Ministries of Education and Health in total recurrent budget were increased each year.
30.   The introduction of the MTEF had a number of beneficial effects in clarifying the
missions and priorities of individual ministries. In the context of a subsequent operation,



9
the FRDP II, a number of crucial items such as primary schooling teaching materials and
medicinal drugs were identified by the Government and tracked so as to ensure that even
in the event of an overall budget cut these items would be protected. In general these
objectives were attained. However, despite five years of gradual implementation, the
MTEF has not evolved into the useful prioritization tool it was intended to be. The effort
to institutionalize the MTEF and make it an integral part of the budgetary process has not
yet succeeded. At the outset, establishment of the MTEF was discussed and agreed
between the Bank and MOF technical staff. There was little or no participation by sector
ministries or by higher levels of Government. As a result, MTEF was seen as a
MOF/Bank initiative, not related to the work of the ministries. It was, and still is, carried
on parallel to and not integrated with the regular budgetary processes. It is seen as an
add-on activity owned by the Ministry of Finance and donors, rather than as an essential
tool for public expenditure management. For the MTEF to be successful Cabinet must be
part of the process and the budget must be a reflection of the political intentions of the
Government. In general, there is weak parliamentary scrutiny of the budget document
and monitoring of actual expenditures. There is a lack of an institutional framework to
plan and monitor the MVTEF. The Budget division of the MOF does not provide clear
leadership and guidance.
31.   Weak existing budgetary information and control systems provided a poor base
for introduction of the MTEF. The existing budget framework centered on operational
budgets that provided detailed information for accounting purposes but none on the
nature of the programs. The actual size of the civil service was unknown so there was no
basis for balancing wage and non-wage costs, the existing budget system did not provide
ready access to information on budget implementation (either compliance with ceilings or
distribution between programs), the unclear role of accounting and audit personnel did
not encourage accountability of controlling officers.
32.   The process of preparing the MTEF thus remains weak and uneven across
ministries. Lack of political ownership of the process by Permanent Secretaries led to
lack of integration of the MTEF into the main work of the ministries, turning it into an
allocation exercise rather than a tool for strategic planning. Lack of clearly defined
Ministry programs and priorities have hindered preparation of MTEF. Development
budget preparation and aid resources have not been effectively integrated into the MTEF
budget. Processes for forecasting sectoral allocations and ceilings have been weak.
There was a lack of clear decisions on inter-sectoral allocations based on explicit choices
and tradeoffs, though it should be stressed that most of the emphasis in the MTEF was on
intra-sectoral allocations. Non-essential outlays were not always cut. Budgetary
performance has been weak in the sense that actual expenditures often varied widely
from budgeted amounts. There is a need to improve the forecasting of domestic resources
to increase predictability and transparency in funding process, to increase political
commitment and involvement to augment policy clarity and consistency, to ensure
effective management and coordination of budget reforms, and to ensure accountability
for actual budgetary performance.
33.   Increasing Pro-Poor Government Expenditures. In addition to installing the
MTEF as a tool for prioritizing government expenditures, FRDP set target shares of the



10
Ministries of Health, Education, Agriculture and Works in the total recurrent budget and
shares for certain key categories of expenditures within each of these ministries' recurrent
budget. It also gave increasing attention to expanding the non-wage components of the
health and education budgets to help ensure increased availability of medical supplies and
teaching materials. The budgetary shares for health and education were, in fact,
increased.
34.   Even though there have been increases in budget allocations for recurrent health
outlays, including pharmaceuticals and other supplies, per capita health spending has
been eroded by inflation, leading to stagnation of per capita outlays since the mid 1990s.
Meanwhile, the combination of malaria, respiratory infections, diarrhea and ailments
associated with childbearing and childhood and a worsening HIV/AlDs epidemic have
reduced life expectancy at birth to 44 years. Public sector primary health services have
continued to deteriorate, partly because heavy loss of clinical staff and patients continue
to bypass primary and secondary facilities, clogging tertiary hospitals. A reconsideration
of the Government's health strategy is under way; this would ideally start with an
analysis of the burden of various diseases and the cost effectiveness of interventions.
Decisions would have to be made about which interventions are handled most effectively
in the public sector and which in the private sector. The staff requirements of the public
health system, both numbers and levels of training should grow out of this analysis, and
help reshape the health sector.
35.   Elimination of fees for primary school led to an increase in enrollment from 1.8
million in 1994 to 3.1 million in mid 1996 (probably falling back to 2.8 million at
present). Gross enrollment of girls increased from 75% to 96% and gross enrollment of
children from the poorest income quintile increased from 58% to 74%. This required the
hiring of some 20,000 untrained teachers and, increased the burden on an already
understaffed and under funded sector. The share of education in the overall recurrent
budget increased from 20% to 27% between 1993/94 and 1999/00. However, per capita
outlays have been eroded by increases in enrollment and inflation. In fact, the real value
of primary education spending per student in 1997/98 prices declined from MK 608 in
1994/95 to MK 336 in 1997. On the other hand, real spending per secondary school
student has increased over time and is nearly ten times that per primary pupil. Teachers'
salaries still absorb 86% of primary expenditures, while the pupil: trained teacher ratio is
120:1. A system in which only 30% of students achieve standard 8 within the minimum
number of years and that sends 10% of its primary school students to secondary school,
as does Malawi's, is inadequate and there is undoubtedly a need for a major increase in
primary education outlays. Sector management and teacher allocation need to be
addressed, as does the issue of user charges for secondary and higher education.
Promoting Development of Agricultural Markets
36.   Ending Restrictions on Production of Burley Tobacco: Deregulation of burley
tobacco production has removed a historic inequity and has led to a shift in production
from estates to smallholders while overall production has been sustained. An
intermediate buyers (IB) program was introduced in 1994 to alleviate marketing
constraints experienced by smallholder farmers in processing and presenting their



11
tobacco on the auction floor. However, auction prices of EB sales have been below the
national average, leading to concerns about declining quality and presentation. Further
action appears necessary to encourage and develop producer and marketing associations,
promote competition in the auctioning of tobacco, strengthening marketing and
regulation institutions, and strengthen licensing requirements for intermediate buyers.
37.   Liberalizing Maize Pricing and Rederiming the Role of ADMARC: The
Government has liberalized all produce and input prices except for maize. A price band
was to be established as an intermediate step towards the full liberalization of maize
price. The lower and upper limits of the maize price band would be defended by
Government to avoid a producer price collapse or escalation of the maize consumer
prices. The band would be progressively widened to export and import parity to make
Government intervention unnecessary. The implementation and operation of the price
band implied allowing the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR) to stabilize maize prices by
buying or selling at when the limits of the price band had been reached. The strategy
entailed ending ADMARC's role as buyer of last resort and commercializing and
privatizing it, and eventually allowing free cross border trade so that the import and
export parity prices define the upper and lower limits of the price band. In fact the role of
ADMARC has declined, partly due to competition from new entrants into trading. At the
time when ADMARC held a monopoly in the mid-1980s, it purchased some 18% of the
national maize crop; this figure had fallen to between 4% and 7% in the latter half of the
1990s. Little progress has been made in installing the price band system or in privatizing
ADMARC. The concept of a maize price band was formally accepted and was first
applied in the 1994/95 season. However, the Government has set only a floor since 1996
because it did not have a conceptual basis or procedure for estimating a ceiling price.
38.   A report on a Commercialization and Privatization Program for ADMARC was
prepared with TA funds from FRDP and was issued in October 1999. The Report
recognized that despite evidence to the contrary, the majority of stakeholders still believe
that ADMARC is critical in Malawi's agricultural marketing system because there is a
lack of capacity in the private sector. Government now appears unwilling to consider
privatization as an option. Privatization proposals for ADMARC have been restricted to
selling off components of the parastatal while maintaining its mandate and core
functions. ADMARC has proposed retaining its functions and installations, dividing them
into commercial and non-commercial (social) and operating the latter with a budgetary
subsidy.
39.   Liberalized Access to Inputs: The Acts setting forth licensing requirement for
trade in seeds, fertilizers and feeds have been amended to streamline licensing,
registration and reporting procedures for importing, selling and distributing these farm
inputs. Fertilizers will no longer have to be registered nor importers and sellers licensed
and government control over introduction of new seed varieties will be limited to
ensuring truth in labeling and control of phytosanitary standard. As a result, there have
been significant new entrants into the fertilizer trade, increasing competition and
stabilizing prices. The private sector accounts for half of fertilizer sales at prices lower
than ADMARC's.



12
40.   Land Policy: FRDP supported government efforts to bring about a more
efficient, environmentally sustainable and equitable land tenure system. The Government
took a first step toward market-based land reform by increasing land rents from MK35
per hectare to MK50 per hectare effective April 1996. However, real land rents have
been eroded to insignificance by inflation since 1996 (at the current exchange rate the
rent is equivalent to a trivial US$ 1.33 per hectare). The Government planned to increase
land rents in real terms and revised the Lands Act to allow for annual increases.
Although the Government had revised the Lands Act in a way it thought would permit
this, the law turned out to be ambiguous and an attempt by Government to raise land
rents was overturned by the courts. A further problem is that the Government has not
developed systems and procedures for assessing land rents on an ongoing basis as
required by the amended act and land rents and their adjustment remain unclear.
41.   Encouraging Development of Private Enterprises: An IDA-supported
manufacturing sector survey in 1993 identified several constraints on private sector
development including: (a) limited access to industrial land caused by complicated
bureaucratic process and by inadequate public resources for servicing industrial land; (b)
long delays and arbitrary rejection by government of applications for employment
permits for non-Malawians and (c) the discouraging effect of the market power of large
conglomerates and parastatals. The last point refers to the interests of Press Holdings, the
Malawi Development Corporation and other institutions in industrial, agricultural and
financial enterprises. The Government's program supported by FRDP included actions to
relieve the first two constraints. Accordingly, the Government made additional land
available for industrial use in Lilongwe and Blantyre and in October 1995 new guidelines
were agreed for processing TEPs that provided for routine approval within 40 working
days, automatic approval for new investments, transparent requirements for training
Malawian nationals, and granting of permanent resident status for long-term expatriates.
As a result, the months long backlog of applications has been removed. However, with
respect to Press, the Government has decided to use its limited influence on the
constitution of the trusteeship of the organization so as to broaden its directorship and
divest its holdings in the financial sector, but otherwise leave it intact. In the event, the
importance of Press in the national economy has declined sharply due to new entry
(particularly in trading) and to a decline in the fortunes of some of its lines of business
(e.g. large-scale tobacco). The revenue of Press was some 18% of GDP in the early
1990s, falling to about 5% in the late 1990s.
42.   Privatizing State Owned Enterprises: Modest but consistent progress has been
made in privatization of state enterprises. In late 1994 the President appointed a
Privatization Commission charged with developing a strategy and legal framework for
privatization. The Privatization Bill was approved by Parliament in spring of 1996, and
detailed operational procedures for privatization were prepared drawing on international
best practice. The resultant law ensures transparent processes and clarifies the decision-
making process in such a way as to limit political interference. Implementation of
privatization has been delegated to the Privatization Commission, which is orchestrating
individual transactions. FRDP did not set targets for the number of enterprises to be
privatized or brought to the point of sale. However, the tentative timetable for
privatization in Annex D of the MOP for FRDP lists 54 enterprises to be privatized in



13
1996-97. Over these two years 25 companies were partially or fully privatized. This
should be considered reasonable progress given the start up time required in getting a
privatization agency staffed and operational.
43.   Studies Financed by the FRDP: The credit included SDR 1.3 million (US$ 2
million) of IDA funds for studies and consultancies. Inclusion of TA funds in the project
meant it had to remain open for more than two years after the second tranche was
disbursed, effectively ending the adjustment phase of the operation. Nevertheless, the
studies and consultant services financed under FRDP seem to be relevant and useful. Six
studies or consultancies have been completed or are ongoing; the largest of these (US$
800,000) is technical assistance for the Integrated Household Survey, the keystone of
poverty monitoring and analysis. Fieldwork was completed in October 1998 and some
basic statistical tables were available in October 1999. FRDP funds were also used for
developing an Information Systems Strategy for the Ministry of Finance ($42,000),
carrying out a Tobacco Export Marketing study (GBP 50,000) which explores the merits
of the effective statutory monopoly position enjoyed by the tobacco auction floors, an
analysis of and recommendations for Privatization and Commercialization of ADMARC
(US$ 184,540), a Survey of Industrial Land (US$ 6,100) designed to make
recommendation for addressing this constraint, and support for the National Revenue
Authority (US$ 259,200) to help ensure its smooth start up.
Future Operations
44.   Because most policy actions supported by the FRDP were already implemented,
supervision was focused on identification of policy measures that could be supported
under a follow-on, quick-disbursing operation to include medium-term measures for
expenditure rationalization and control, civil service reform, land policy, maize pricing
policy, and privatization. The MOP for FRDP presented a timetable for medium term
policy implementation in the areas of expenditure reform, civil service reform, land
policy, maize pricing policy and privatization (Annex F). A follow on operation, FRDP
lI, was approved in December 1998. This credit continued support for measures to
improve the quality and management of public expenditures, restructure Government
functions and the civil service; and privatization of state owned enterprises. It
complemented FRDP I by focusing on the promotion of private sector led growth in the
non-agriculture sector by accelerating privatization, financial sector reform and
infrastructure development (telecommunications and electric power).
45.   Key Lessons Learned
i.    The project demonstrates once again the synergy between macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reforms. Reaping the full benefits of structural
reform depends heavily on fiscal discipline and avoidance of inflationary
pressures.
ii.   Careful and extensive preparation, including a strong background of
economic and sector work, extensive collaboration with government,
consultation with stakeholders and coordination with other suppliers of



14
external assistance and is a necessary but not sufficient condition for
execution of complex adjustment. In the final analysis it is the
government that must implement the program.
iii.   Fiscal restructuring and civil service reform cannot be a bottom-up
exercise but should begin with a fundamental reconsideration of the role
of government undertaken at the political level. Restructuring of the
government, the civil service and the budget must have political leadership
and be based on decisions about the future role of the public sector.
iv.   Attempting to introduce a new system of expenditure prioritization
(MTEF) and budget allocation by superimposing it on an existing,
inadequate budgeting system is not likely to be successful.
v.    Inclusion of technical assistance components in adjustment operations
invariably results in closing well after disbursement of performance-
related tranches, and delays preparation of ICRs, in this case by more than
two years. This reduces the possible influence of the ICR on the shaping
of future operations. This may be remedied by making the technical
assistance a separate credit, as was done in the subsequent operation, the
FRDP II.



DEC-20-00 04:48  FROM:TRERSURY
15        Appendix:  Borrower's Assessment
Tciegram: FwaNcE. Lilongwe                                    MnISTRY O1F FENANCE
'Tkoion: Lilongwe 719 355                                       P.O. BOx 30au9
Telex: 44407                                                      LILONGWE 3
FAX: 7*9 173                                                         MAlrAWI
E-mail:fihMceQfisnMn.mjdnwi.ne  i 
Ref No: 32/1/6                              18th December, 2000
The Executive Director
African Department
World Bank
Washington D.C. 20431
United States of America
Dear Sir
COMPLETION REPORT: MALAW1 FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND
DEREGULATION PROGRAMME (FRDP)
I wish to acknowledge receipt of the Fiscal Restructuring and
Deregulation Programme (FRDP) completion report submitted for our
comments. At the time we received the report, Government was also in
the process of evaluating the impact of the two FRDP credits on the
Malawi economy. The completlon report did, therefore, contribute to the
evaluation of the credits. We, however, had some comments on the
completion report itself.
The implementation performance of both FRDP I and FRDP II
credits was generally satisfactory. As indicated in the report, except for
activities relating to civil service reform, commercialisation and
privatisation of ADMARC, telecommunications privatisation, and the
separation of the Finance and Audit Act Into two separate Acts on
Finance and on Audit, all activities-supported by the credits were finalised
In good time.
The good performance of the economy during the period 1995-
1998 was a result of the reforms supported by the two credits. Of
course, certaln other factors could also have contributed to this
performance. In particular, the Civil Service Reform helped to detect
overlaps between ministries, which prompted a reduction in the number
of ministries from 27 to 19. However, streamlining of the service has yet
to take place and consultancy work on the rationalisation of the Civil
Service is expected to be completed by April 2001.



DEC-20-00 04:48 FROM:TRERSURY
16       Appendix: Borrower's Assessment
In the agricultural sector, reforms have necessitated tremendous
change in the characteristcs of production systems as well as In input
and output markets.  Competition now flourishes more than was
previously the case when markets were of a monopolistic and
monopsonostic nature.  There also has been an increase in total
agricultural output of both food and cash crops. On the other hand,
however, reforms In the agricultural sector have meant an increase In the
cost of production and thereby negatively affecting the smaliholder
farmer. Also, lack of proper training for smaliholder farmers in tobacco
production has compromised qualify leading to lower prices of the crop.
Privatisation has led to increased Malawian participation in all
sectors and ownership de-concentration in listed companies. Further, It
has promoted Malawian participation In rare sectors like formal
manufacturing sector and promoted partnerships and share-ownership.
The most far-reaching Innovation In the tax system was the
introduction of the Malawi Revenue Authority, which among other things,
was to strengthen tax administration, expand the tax base and allow
Government to increase revenue. In expenditures, the Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTFF) was introduced to Improve allocations to
higher priority programs.
Reforms in the financial sector resulted, among other things, on the
size of the Treasury bill stock growing from less than 0.1 percent of
gross domestic product (GDP) to 9 percent of GDP by 1998. The
liberallsation of the financial sector has resulted in Increased number of
banks and hence competition within the financial sector. However, the
improvement of regulatory and promotional services by the Reserve Bank
of Malawl Is necessary, as identified by the Bank funded consultancy on
the Regulatory Framework for the Financial Sector.
The introduction of free primary education In 1994 has led to
enrolment inceases by nearly a million. Community-driven projects have
helped organise and enhance community- demanded projects In school-
building, water supply, heath cinics, roads and irrigatlon. The Poverty
Monitoring System (PMS) has helped to measure changes in the welfare
of the people through regular household surveys. Inflation has, however,
eroded the gains In the poverty reduction area while macroeconomic



DEC-20-00 04:48  FROM:TRERSURY            -
17        Appendix: Borrower's Assessment
stability has remained elusive. On the other hand, the HIV/AIDS
pandemic continues to take away Malawi's productive labour force and to
raise the number of orphans in the country.
In addition to implementation problems highlighted in the
completion report, lessons from the FRDP II have also shown the need
for simpler design of programmes and less cross conditionalities if the
objectives of the programmes are to be attained. The timing of targets
should be reviewed wlth a view to limiting benchmarks to those within
the control of the authorities and not the legislature. The short and long-
term benchmarks should also be clearly designated and a balance needs
to be achieved In accessing the importance of attaining each one of
them.
Procurement delays also contributed extensively to the slippage of
programmes under FRDP II.  For instance, the process to appoint a
consultant took nine months. This was a result of the requirement for a
"no objection" to come from Washington despite the presence of a
procurement expert within the Malawi World Bank Field Office. It also
took some time for the Malawi Government and the World Bank to agree
on key issues in the programmes. This took up time originally budgeted
for such consultations.
In most cases of non-compliance, the problem has been largely In
the design of the programmes, with ownership lying in the bureaucrats
and not the people to benefit from the reforms. The paper exercises
have therefore suffered from lack of consultation and participation by the
wider community in Malawi. For the successor credits to be successful,
Government will need to increase its consultations with key stakeholders
including the members of the civil society.
Despite a series of earlier adjustment operations, there remalns a
backlog of policy constraints which the Government is committed to
removing rapidly. To this end, the Government will continue with the
pursuit of prudent financial policies and additional efforts to deepen
structural reforms geared at creating an environment conductive to
private sector development,  promotlon of domestic savings and
Investment, acceleration of production and export diversification, further
development of human resources, and Improvement In physical



DEC-20-00 04:49 FROM:TRERSURY
18       Appendix: Borrower's Assessment
infrastructure. The Government will, therefore, continue with measures
to further liberallse agricultural production and marketing arrangements;
restructure Government establishments and the civil service to improve
efficiency and effectiveness in providing public goods and services,
Improve public expenditure management, continue with the privatisation
programme, and implement further tax and tarlff reforms, among other
measures.
We trust that you will find our comments useful. But should you
need further clarifications, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Finally, we wish to thank the Bank for the continued support It
gives to the Malawi Govemment.
Yours sincerely
R.P    limodzi
SECRETARY TO THETRMUY
Cc: Mr David G. Greene
Consultant World Bank
Washington D.C.



19
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives            Substantial       Partial        NediJible     Not aDolicable
Macro policies                                              X
Sector policies                             X
Financial objectives                                                                         X
Institutional development                                                                    X
Physical objectives                                                                          X
Poverty reduction                           X
Gender issues                                                                                X
Other social objectives                                                                      X
Public sector management                                    X
Private sector development                  X
Other                                                                                        X
B. Sustainabilitv                         Likelv           nlikely       Unceirtain
x
iiuhl         Satisfactory    Untisafactor
satisfactory
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                              X
Preparation Assistance                                      X
Appraisal                                                   X
Supervision                                                 X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                 X
Implementation                                              X
Covenant compliance                                         X
Operation                                                   X
E. Assessment of Outcome                                    X



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loans/Credit title       Purpose                         Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Industrial and  Improve policy environment for the  FY 1988      Closed
Trade Policy        manufacturing sector to increase
Adjustment Credit    efficiency of resource use including
imports and expand exports
2. Agriculture Sector  Increase efficiency and improve  FY 1990     Closed
Adjustment Credit   incomes of smallholders, and improve
macroeconomic environment through
import liberalization and public
expenditure and restructuring
3. Entrepreneurship    Support an improved environment for   FY 1992  Closed
Development and     entrepreneurial activity and investment,
Drought Recovery    support adoption of policies aimed at
Program             deepening financial markets, help
alleviate the impact of drought
Following operations   _
1. Second Fiscal    Expenditure prioritization, labor market  1998  Fully
Restructuring and   reform, civil service reform,                   disbursed,
Deregulation Program  continuation of the privatization             not closed
(FRDP II)           program, tariff and surtax reforms,
liberalization of telecoms, plan of
privatization of ADMARC
2. Second Fiscal    Provide funding for technical      1998         Continuing
Restructuring and   assistance, consultancies, studies and
Deregulation Program  training to support the FRDP II.
Technical Assistance
Project (FRDP II TA)   ______                                       _
3. Third Fiscal     Auditing and procurement reform, tele-  Expected for  Not yet
Restructuring and   coms privatization, banking and agricul- 2000    appraised
Deregulation Program  tural marketing privatization
(FRDP m)
4. Privatization    Assistance for the privatization   Expected for  Approved
Technical Assistance  elements of the FRDP II, particularly    2000  June 2000
telecoms, the airline



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                            Date Planned               Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                              tMay5,1995
Preparaion                                                t                              ....
_ ~~~~~~~~.. _.  .. ... .... ... . . . ... ............ .. ....... .... ....... .... ................ .. . .... .. .... .. _......  . .. ..........      
Appraisal.Nov. 15, 1995                                                                   Nov. 15, 1995
_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.__.. ..__. _... ....                                .  ......... __ _     . _     _ . __ ......... ...
Negotiations                                               I Feb. 27, 1996                Feb. 27, 1996
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)          N/A                          March 1, 1996
Board Presentation                                           April 30, 1996              1Apri 30, 1996
___ ___ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     _. ____._ ___ ."__._._____._.._._.
Signing                                                      May 15, 1996                 May 15,1996
Effectiveness                                              1May 24, 1996                  May 24, 1996
First Tranche Release (if applicable)                        June 1996                    June 1996
Midterm review (if applicable)                               N/A                          N/A
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if applicable)           Sept. 15, 1997               Sept. 15, 1997
Project Completion                                           March 16,1998                March 15, 2001
| Credit Closing                                             March 16, 2000               March 15,2001



22
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual2
(US$ thousands)
FY96  FY97   FY98    FY99    FY00
Appraisal estimate                 74,400      32,000           0             0              0
Actual                             73,348         0          31,921        11,159          5,428
Actual as % of Estimate             99%           0             -             -              -
Date of Final Disbursement            -           -             -             -          Ongoing
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation: Macroeconomic
Macroeconomic                          Estimated                                 Actual
Indicators                                                          -
1994    1995  | 1996   199    1998    1994   199       1996      1997    1998   1999
.= ====.=.__ _ . _         ?                       7                      5                       __
RealGDP Growth %            -10.2    9.9    10.5   4.0    4.0    -1.2   15A         9.4       4.9     3.1    4.2
CPI inflation %             34.7    82.9    48.0   15.0   8.0       8.0   34.7    83.3       37.6    9.1    27A       46.5
%ofGDP                             ....-             -                           -.          I___  ____  ___
Gross investment         r  13.2    15.8    16.0   16.4   17.1    17.8  29.1    11.4         12.4    12.3   13.7    15.2
Private investment          7.0      9.4     9.6    9.5    10.1    1.5   14.0       7.3       5.8     5.2    4.7      4.2
G=ross domestic saving      -0.5     4.1     9.0   10.8   12.2    12.8   8.0        0.0       5.7    201    0.4       2.4
Fiscal deficit before grants    25.8    15.9    9.9    6.6    5.9   6.0   31.6    15.5        7.7    10.8   11.1    12.8
Current acct balance        -18.0   -15.0   -10.1  -8.2   -7.7    606       -      -11.9    -12.0   -12.6  -17.4   -16.3
____________       ____     _____                  _____~~  ~~~~ 22.9 ,                             I__   _
Exports GNFS                30.3    32.6   26.2   26.0   25.5    25.1   30.1    28.7         23.2    25.0   31.1    28.7
2    Note that these figures include the FRDP proper (both adjustment and TA), as well as reflows and Danish
cofinancing which was arranged as Trust Funds administered by the Bank.



23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation: Structural
Structural indicators                               1995          1999
Trade and exchange regime
Maximum tariff on consumer goods                  45%           25%
Weighted average tariff rate                      19%           14%
Export tax rate                                    8%            0
Size of inter-bank foreign exchange market (US$ mn)  526        725
Private sector development
Number of cellular phone operators                  1            2
Number of cellular telephones                     5,000        24,000
Number of internet service providers                1            12
Number of commercial banks                          2            4
Valuation of stock exchange (US$ millions)     l   0            154
Employees of privatized state owned enterprises  i 0            9,000
Agriculture
Number of registered tobacco clubs                2,400        24,119
Smallholder burley tobacco production (kg million)  21           90
Contribution of root crops to national calorie    10%           35%
consumption



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                   i Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined              Status                          Impact of study
1. | Integrated Household Survey          Produce ongoing and reliable poverty    Report of Preliminary Results - Nov. 1999  Report of Nov 1999 provides basic
I information to be used in monitoring and                                       data on population by age, sex,
informing programs                                                            | region, household characteristics,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edcto,1 helt and nutrition.
2. J Local Area Network                   Develop information strategy or MOF.    Underway
Consists of needs assessment, design of
local and area wide network and user
I                           tra~~~~~~~bining progrgn.
3.i Tobacco Exporting and Marketing       Analyze benefits and costs of effective  Completed May 1998                    Concludes system be retained as
l Stuldy                             statutory monopoly position of tobacco                                         most efficient and transparent
auction floors.                                                                method for tobacco sales.
l  Recommendations for improvement
..   _ _     _ _ _  ________________________  _________________________      __________________________             [under consideration
4.   Commercialization and Privatization  Prepare govemment program for           Draft Final Report - July 1999         Future of ADSMARC still under
Plan for Agricultural Development and    privatization and commercialization of                                     consideration by govemment.
Marketing Corporation (ADMARC)       ADMARC and recommend measures for
_ ___________________________ }servicing remote areas                                          _             _._       ___
5. l Survey of Industrial Lands           Reviews problems of apparent shortage of    Completed in October 1999          Leads to govesment making
serviced industrial sites and leasing                                          additional sites available and
procedures                             _                                       streamlining procedures.
6.   Malawi Revenue Authority             Asserble and finance project           Completed in January 2000               Revenue authority in start up phase
implementation team to develop plans and
procedures for recruitment of senior
management, transfer and terms of
reference of new staff, preparation of
financial and personnel manuals, design of
master file, accounting, management and
statistical reports.
7.   Value Added Tax Study                Review major policy issues for introduction   Seminar done                     Conversion of surtax into VAT
of VAT                                                                         underway
8.   Public Sector Procurement and Supplies                                       Being implemented
Management Reform in Malawi Phase
II: Legal Drafting  .. . . . I...._..
9.   White Paper on Malawi Structural      Review rationale and measures for       Undertaken
Reform Program                      govemment program and discuss with
stakeholders



25
Table 8: IDA Financed Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                    Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                           (US$ million)
Item                                    Local    Foreign         Total           Local   Foreign    Total
costs       costs                        costs      costs .
.---. . -.-..-.------..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - . -~~~ .   ...........
Total                                                         ;               - '                    V______
Table 9: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                  Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                         (US$ million)
Item                                   Local       Foreign F  Total          Local  l Foreign          Total
costs    I  costs                     costs   I  costs
-BRD                                        .............  ... .. .... .... --.. ... ... - -----! ---i------ --- - 304   -  ---- ..  108.7--
Danish cofnancing304 -                                                                             3 04
Japanese cofinancing                                         - t                                        48.0
KfWcofinancing                                                    6.3                                    6.3
Total                                                            193.5                                 193.5



26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    S        t      Covenant  I                   Description of covenant                     Comments
Type
C2853        111.3.01    9               Regular reporting
C2853        111.3.02    1              Furnishing the Association audited accounts as
requested.
C2853        ffI.3.03    1              Maintaining sound accounting practices the
expenditures.
C2853        1H.3.04    5               Carrying out studies required for the implementation of
the Program including agricultural pricing and
marketing policies, tax and tariff reforns, the
introduction of a value added tax, the establishment of
a national revenue authority, review land-related
policies and evaluation of the impact of policy
measures on the vulnerable segments of the population.
Covenants types:
1. Accounts/audits                               8. Indigenous people
2. Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3 .. Flow and utilization of project funds        11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. Counterpart funding                               allocation
5. Management aspects of the project or executing  12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral agency
policy/regulatory/institutional action         13. Other
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status
C    covenant complied with                    A       Satisfactory Compliance
CD   complied with after delay                 B       Procurement followed Bank procedures and
CP   complied with partially                           guidelines
NC   not complied with



27
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              -               Revised                                 Actual
Stage of project cycle 'Weeks    US$                                Weeks               US$                  Weeks    US$
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....... ...... ....... ........ .. . . ...... .. ..................  ...    .. ....... ........... .........  . .....     .. .....   . .  .    . .  ... . ... .    ........
Preparation to                    NA                 N/A           N/A                  N/A                     54.1           193.3
~Appraisal.                                                         '...                                    ..
A praisa                                                                                          -32.8                      125.7
Appraisal                         tN/A            , N/A  I  N/A                         N/A                                     10.6
Negotiationsthrough0 .N/A                            N/A            N/A                 N/A                      3.4            10.6
Board approval
Supervision                       N/A                N/A            N/A                 N/A                    71.0            287.4
.......... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   ........ .. . ... . . .............. ....... ........... ...  - ---- ........ ..... ....  ..... ...   ..... .  ...........  ...........   .......   ......._ ..-.  .....   .. ... .   ............   .........     .....
Comiple ti-o,n,-                 VNANA                              NANA                                         8.0            25.0
Total                  ,N/A               N/A,  N/A                          N/A
-        i           i  I            I     _                 ..   .       
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of, Days' Speciali-  1. Implem.   Developm, Prl
Year          Per-   in                zation             Status          objectives:o
sons    Field:
Through Appraisal                  April '95 1  10                17               -                          -                  -
Appraisal through                  Nov. '95            1o        20  -                       -
Board approval                    'Feb. '96            10         18
Supervision                       'May '96              1         2 2
Sept. '96            1         6
.Dec.'96             1          1
Oct.'97              1         2
Feb. '98             2          4
June'98             2          4
iMarch'99'  2                   6
......... ..... .. ...................     ............... ..  .    ...........  ............  ..-  .........    ..   .-- ... .--...--.............-..........-.  .. ........-.-.-.-.---    - - 1.-.- -
Completion                         March'00!   2                  6
Total,                             ..         -.-- - -  -  1   ---- -- 86






IBRD 31130
32         TO       ITAN  Z A  N  I A                                                                     36'0
To Dar es Salam   ;  s     SnWv 
0   20  40   60  80  1 00
KILOMETERS
10 Q                                                                                                                                                            10
X       VFl\X\S -% MALAWI
xs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                Li ingitonia 
C  0MRUMPHI Zj
Z AZM BAINAH/TA                                       PRINCIPAL ROADS
tfiisumulJ1             SELECTED UNPAVED ROADS
-120                                                                                                                                                              120-
-12          g                               g              /     /        <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-V RV RIVERS12
O  TOWNS
@     DISTRICT CAPITALS
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL
.,o ('   _  \J\;  .<.           ~~~~DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- 1                 khakot@            -        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
f                    j   ,           o       \   oy   ":'\.'; .-1                                           f~~~~~~~~tcl 4 
MOZAMBIQUE
'-\             k-            r         Moknnjila
'.o         t              * _   x>DEDLIL 146 t   |                                                       4\\
D       . \              p    kt \zLaT ke
_ _ _ _ _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  ___ Ia~.                                                                  L         Chiutathe   1_ >>s
DEMOCRATIC    RWANDAS IMO   MBIQ  EBa    MA
REPUBLIC OF            BURUNDI                                                                             J4OD   -         " tOcE     Lake
CONGO                                                                                                                    Aiw
r '     1      t       ~~~~TANZANIA         NLN,                                                   !             ,0o        a,
9   gj    - t,   8    OCEAN    E//      M   94/   gt  ('  S,   PHALOMBE
t-  tr   /  <0  ~91COMOROS    T. T.IV (      '     _      -     -                    loje
~  "'~-2~"'~  ~ ''        ~                 16~* Chiwowa                                    .uC ezb1    / X,,*f                             160-
MA  IIILJE~~~~~~   lFCH                                                                    ToBir
)   ZAMBIA      -;Z M IU                      II     -1                                    C         IWBlo
This map was prodluced by the
AB-     0 r,  <Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
*                ~~~~~~The baundaries, calars, denaminatians
r   \  ZIMBABWE  ct                                                                      i' C3  f   X   ~ @Oez;     hirama    and anyather infarmation shawn on
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'t   \                                                                this map dao nat imply, an the part of
,~~~~~'                            \  ~~~~~~~~~~~4' ~~~~~The Warld Bank Graup, any judgment
z r-0  BOTSWANA       =*             \            MADAGiCAR                                                                       an 7W,    The  egalon   status of any territory, ar
ZF    BOTSWANA                                                                                                        * Nsanje  any endorsement or acceptance of
SOUTH                                                                                        (              such boundaries.
[N    _    >       AFRICA                                                            340                                                 36'
October 2000



